---

title: Spring orthotic device
abstract: A spring orthotic device comprising a cradle for contacting the foot of a user, a spring plate underneath the cradle, a ventral pivot beneath the spring plate, and a dorsal pivot above the spring plate and below the cradle located proximally of the ventral pivot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08353968&OS=08353968&RS=08353968
owner: King Family Kingetics, LLC
number: 08353968
owner_city: Kihei
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100208
---
Generally shoes consist of an insole i.e. the interior bottom of a shoe an outsole which contacts the ground and in some cases a midsole between the outsole and the insole. The purpose of a midsole is often to act as a shock absorber to absorb the impact of walking and provide extra cushion and for this reason materials such as EVA and polyurethane are often used.

Orthotic inserts also called arch supports are inserts placed into a shoe either on top of or in place of the insole. Orthotics are used to correct foot alignment and side to side movement during walking and thereby decrease pain not only in the foot but also in other parts of the body such as the knee hip and lower back. They can also increase stability in an unstable joint and prevent a deformed foot from developing additional problems. Rigid orthotic devices are generally made by casting a mold and can be made from materials such as plastic or carbon fiber.

Carbon fiber and steel plates inserted into a shoe are also known for use in stiffening the sole of the shoe. Such inserts can provide additional comfort for individuals with arthritis.

The use of hard surfaces stone concrete and asphalt in modern human environments has changed the forces encountered by the human musculoskeletal system as compared to the forces which it evolved to sustain. Impact energies from such surfaces enter the body through compression longitudinal waves higher frequency and shorter length waves through boney and dense tissues and lower frequency and longer length waves through soft and fatty tissues. Such impact energy is then converted into breaking power potential energy of muscles and tendons heat and sometimes physical damage leading to injury. The increase in body weight and general decrease in exercise and fitness experienced by some individuals can exacerbate such physical damage.

The present invention provides a means to alleviate the physical damage and injury experienced by a subject due to impact with the ground. The present device comprises a simple spring machine tricorrectional joint spring orthotic that produces a mechanical advantage which is used to enhance the efficiency and stability of gait for both able and less mobile individuals while providing protection from puncture wounds.

The present device is useful for assisting locomotion using appendages such as human limbs which perform a gait cycle on a solid surface. The device comprises 

 b a first planar spring plate positioned below the horizontally extending support and mechanically connected to the horizontally extending support the spring plate having a proximal end a distal end a lateral side between the proximal end and the distal end a medial side between the proximal end and the distal end an upper surface and a lower surface the proximal end of the horizontally extending support and the proximal end of the spring plate are separated by a vertical extent and

 c a ventral pivot positioned below the spring plate and mechanically connected to the spring plate wherein the ventral pivot is positioned between the lateral side and the medial side of the first planar spring plate distally of a point on the first planar spring plate which receives a ground reaction force during a first portion of the gait cycle.

The present device also preferably further includes a dorsal pivot positioned between and mechanically connected both to the horizontally extending support and to the spring plate the dorsal pivot is positioned proximally of the ventral pivot. The dorsal pivot and ventral pivot can comprise an outer surface having a cross sectional shape which can be for example elliptical hemispherical tubular square or contoured and can also be hollow. One or more toe pivots can also be attached to the lower surface of the first planar spring plate at a point located distally of the ventral pivot.

The horizontally extending support can be made from a material selected from the group consisting of carbon fiber metal ethylene vinyl acetate nylon polyethylene polypropylene polyurethane carbon fiber or fiberglass. The horizontally extending support can also form a cradle configured to receive a human foot and the distal end of the cradle preferably extends to a point above the first planar spring plate which is proximal to a point on the first planar spring plate which receives a ground reaction force during a second portion of the gait cycle preferably adjacent to a point below the ball of a subject s foot.

The first planar spring plate is made from a material selected from the group consisting of carbon fiber polycarbonate plastic and steel preferably carbon fiber including KEVLAR fiber and or fiberglass. It can also be made from a plurality of materials where each of the plurality of materials has a different property selected from the group consisting of spring coefficient modulus of elasticity and tensile strength. The distal end of the first planar spring plate can also comprise a downwardly extending convex form the convex form is preferably hemispherical.

In additional embodiments the present device can be attached to a vertically extending support having a proximal end and a distal end the distal end being mechanically connected to the upper surface of the horizontally extending support. By attaching a handle to the proximal end of the vertically extending support a crutch can be formed. By attaching a brace to the proximal end of the vertically extending support an AFO can be formed. A prosthesis can further be formed by connecting a receptacle for an amputated limb to the distal end of the vertically extending support. The distal end of the vertically extending support can also be mechanically connected to a mechanical device such as a robot or bionic mechanism.

As used herein the following terms and variations thereof have the meanings given below unless a different meaning is clearly intended by the context in which such term is used.

 Above and below with respect to components of one of the present devices describe the positioning of these components when the device is placed for use on the ground or other surface on which the present device is intended to be used. For example a spring plate as described herein is below a cradle to which it is connected when the underside of the spring plate faces the ground and or a shoe in which the device is placed.

 Ankle foot orthoses AFOs are orthoses or braces encompassing the ankle joint and all or part of the foot.

 Appendage refers to a projection attached or otherwise connected to an individual s body or to a mechanism or other structure. The appendages referred to herein are appendages used for locomotion such as limbs e.g. legs or arms supported by crutches or supports for a locomoting mechanism. Such appendages are generally hingedly connected to the body or the mechanism.

The arch or arches of the foot refer to the arches formed by the tarsal and metatarsal bones and by associated ligaments and tendons which enable the support of weight by a foot.

 Axis refers to a point or line around which something bends or rotates in particular around which a portion of a spring plate bends in the present devices.

 Ball of the foot refers to the padded portion of the sole of the human foot between the toes and the arch on which the weight of the body rests when the heel is raised.

 Calcaneal tuberosity is the inferior and posterior extremity of the calcaneus or os calcis forming the projection of the heel.

 Carbon fiber refers to a material consisting of extremely thin fibers about 0.005 0.010 mm in diameter and composed mostly of carbon atoms. The carbon atoms are bonded together in microscopic crystals that are aligned in a generally parallel manner with respect to the long axis of the fiber. The crystal alignment makes the fiber strong for its size. Several thousand carbon fibers can be twisted together to form a yarn which can be used by itself or woven into a fabric. Carbon fiber has many different weave patterns and can be combined with a plastic resin and wound or molded to form composite materials such as carbon fiber reinforced plastic also referred as carbon fiber to provide a high strength to weight ratio material.

 Composite material is a material made from two or more constituent materials with significantly different physical or chemical properties which remain separate and distinct on a macroscopic level within a finished structure.

 Cradle as used herein means a horizontally extending rigid or semi rigid structure which provides support to one or more pivots located below the cradle. When used in foot orthotic embodiments of the present invention the cradle can have an upper surface that conforms to at least a portion of the underside of a human foot in the manner of the upper surface of an orthotic device inserted into a shoe to help stabilize the foot and ankle. In some embodiments the upper surface of the cradle is formed to match the shape and curvature of a particular user s foot as described below while in other embodiments the upper surface of the orthotic can comprise a shape which generally matches the shape of the underside of the foot of at least a subset of users. The cradles used in the present devices are rigid.

 Crutch is a rigid support for supporting a human subject during locomotion using a limb or body part other than the legs or feet.

 Dorsal means away from the ground when the ventral surface of the cradle and spring plate of the present spring orthotic device faces toward the ground.

 Foot orthotic refers to an orthotic which assists a lower extremity foot ankle knee or leg in locomotion.

 Footwear refers to shoes boots and other coverings worn on the feet for protection against the environment and or for adornment.

 Gait refers to the physical actions taken by a subject in the process of walking running or other forms of locomotion achieved using appendages such as human limbs.

A gait cycle is a series of actions performed repetitively to accomplish locomotion using appendages. A gait cycle is measured from one event e.g. heel strike when the use of feet is involved to the next occurrence of the same event with the same appendage.

 Ground as used herein can refer to any solid surface on which the present device and or footwear comprising the present device comes into contact with including floors sidewalks dirt rocks and other surfaces on which a user of the present devices ambulates.

 Handle refers to a projection or other appendage of an object that is designed to be held in order to use or move the object.

The heel of a foot refers to the rearward opposite the direction of normal movement end of a foot which in the human foot is the padded portion of the sole behind the arch.

 Heel strike refers to the moment of the gait cycle when the heel of a subject or of a shoe covering the subject s foot first contacts the ground during forward locomotion.

 Horizontal means in a direction roughly parallel or within 30 more preferably within 15 of the ground.

 Impact disease refers to one or more medical conditions of a subject that result from the force of impact of a subject s feet on the ground during locomotion or for which such force is a contributing factor. Such diseases include plantar fascitis achilles tendonitis patellar tendonitis tibialis posterior tendonitis compensated pes planus osteoarthritis tenosynivitis hip and sacral iliac dysfunction spondylolisthesis and lower back pathology.

 Lateral means toward the outside of a foot i.e. toward the side on which the smallest pinky toe is normally located.

 Mechanically connected means physically connected either through a connection based on direct physical contact or via another mechanical structure. The dorsal heel pivot described below for example provides a mechanical connection between the cradle and the spring plate of the present device in some embodiments. A mechanical connection can include the use of adhesives or other means of securing structures that are mechanically connected.

 Medial means toward the inside of a foot i.e. toward the side on which the big toe is normally located.

 Midsole refers to a portion of a piece of footwear located between an insole and an outsole of the piece of footwear.

 Orthotic means a device that is applied externally to a part of the body to support a part of the body correct a deformity relieve pain and or improve the function of a part of the body.

 Outsole refers to the outer sole of a shoe or boot that includes the bottom of the shoe and makes contact with the ground.

 Pivot refers to a rigid member or structure such as a shaft beam or protuberance which supports another structure that bends or turns around an axis defined by the length of the pivot and which is subject to bending stresses generally from a direction perpendicular to its length.

 Planar refers to a structure which extends primarily in two dimensions i.e. in which the length and width of the structure are each greater than the thickness preferably at least 5 times greater more preferably at least 10 time greater and even more preferably at least 20 times greater.

 Shoe as used herein refers to a foot covering which provides support or protection for a foot including therapeutic foot coverings such as foot braces as well as conventional shoes such as boots dress shoes and athletic shoes. Shoes can also cover prosthetic feet.

 Spring plate refers to a planar device comprising one or more materials that can be elastically deformed to store mechanical energy.

 Subject refers to a user of a spring orthotic device as described herein. Subjects normally are human though uses of the present system by an animal or a mechanical device are also possible.

 Toe off refers to the moment of the gait cycle when the last contact occurs between a subject s foot or a shoe or device below the subject s foot and the ground during forward locomotion.

 Ventral means toward the ground when the ventral surface of the cradle and spring plate of the present spring orthotic device faces toward the ground.

As used herein the term comprise and variations of the term such as comprising and comprises are not intended to exclude other additives components integers or steps. The terms a an and the and similar referents used herein are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless their usage in context indicates otherwise.

Preferably the dorsal surface of the cradle is shaped to match the contour of at least the heel portion of a user s foot and in an embodiment in which the cradle extends distally to contact the toes of a user s foot such as the embodiment of the cradle is preferably also shaped to match the contour of the remainder of the underside of a user s foot. That is the dorsal surface of the cradle comprises a shape which is the inverse of the shape or contour of the underside of a user s foot as shown in . In other embodiments such as that of the cradle extends only from a heel portion at a proximal end to point proximal of the toes when the cradle is worn by a user and preferably adjacent to or proximal of the ball of a user s foot although preferably the cradle extends sufficiently distally so as to support the arches of a user s foot. A cradle which extends to a point proximally of the metatarsal heads of a user s foot lowers pressure under the metatarsal heads and can reduce stress fractures.

In such embodiments the dorsal surface of the cradle is preferably formed to match the underside of a specific user s foot. In this case the cradle can be formed from a polymer material such as ethylene vinyl acetate and shaped in the same manner as polymer orthotics are currently shaped to match the contour of a user s foot. In other embodiments the dorsal surface of the cradle can alternatively comprise a shape which is the inverse of the shape of an average user s foot i.e. which can include a concave heel depression and a raised arch portion the arch being located distally of the heel depression and including a surface which is higher than the lowest point of the heel depression as measured when the present spring orthotic is placed on the ground or in a shoe with the ventral surface of the cradle facing towards the ground.

In a further alternative the dorsal surface of the cradle can comprise a different shape and in some cases can be flat. The dorsal surface can also be therapeutically contoured biomechanically balanced or otherwise modified in order to implement a therapeutic correction. In some embodiments the dorsal surface of the cradle comprises a surface which matches the contour of the underside of a user s foot and to contact as much of the surface of the underside of a user s foot as possible or practical which is advantageous because the ground reaction force exerted against the underside of a user s foot is thereby spread across as much of the surface area of the underside of the user s foot as possible thereby lowering the amount of force exerted against any particular point on the underside of the user s foot.

In order to facilitate the spreading of ground reaction forces across the underside of the surface of a user s foot the cradle is preferably formed from a rigid or semi rigid material such as carbon fiber metal ethylene vinyl acetate nylon polyethylene polypropylene polyurethane carbon fiber or fiberglass. Such materials generally have a shear modulus of at least about of 0.001 more preferably of at least about 0.05 and even more preferably of at least about 0.1 though it can be higher with greater rigidity preferred.

In a preferred embodiment the cradle is formed from a material which resists being punctured. For example a cradle can be formed from a plurality of layers of carbon fiber material preferably including one or more layers that incorporate KEVLAR para aramid synthetic fiber. Preferably such a cradle includes 2 or more layers of carbon fiber material that comprises KEVLAR fiber more preferably 4 or more layers and even more preferably 8 or more layers. In view of the stiffness of carbon fiber when carbon fiber or other relatively rigid materials are used in this embodiment the cradle preferably extends distally no further than a point adjacent the ball of a user s foot in order to allow a user to walk normally. Such cradles can be several millimeters thick in order to provide protection to the proximal portion of a user s foot such as between 2 and 8 mm thick more preferably between 4 and 7 mm thick. Such a cradle is illustrated in . The present spring orthotic device and or footwear which incorporates the present spring orthotic device in this embodiment also preferably meets the puncture resistance standards of ASTM designation F 2412 05 Standard Test Methods for Foot Protection as approved Mar. 1 2005 published March 2005 .

Located below the ventral surface of the cradle is a spring plate . The spring plate comprises a proximal end a distal end a medial side a lateral side a dorsal surface and a ventral surface . The spring plate is generally planar in configuration and is formed from a material which is preferably less rigid than the cradle and has a higher modulus of elasticity. Although all of the spring plates described herein comprise a single sheet of generally planar material it will be understood that a plurality of pieces of material which are mechanically connected to each other or to another structure so as to be deformable around an axis or axes defined by pivots and which are oriented in a generally planar configuration can also be used as a spring plate in connection with the present spring orthotic device.

The spring plate is mechanically connected to the cradle at a point which distal of the proximal end of the spring plate and also preferably at least at another point at or proximal of the distal end of the spring plate . In the embodiment shown in the ventral surface of the cradle is in direct contact with the dorsal surface of the spring plate . However in other embodiments such as that of the cradle and spring plate can be connected adjacent the proximal ends and via another mechanical structure such as the dorsal heel pivot shown in .

An important feature of the present spring orthotic is that a vertical distance must be maintained between the proximal end of the cradle and the proximal end of the spring plate in the absence of a load placed on the cradle. This allows the proximal end of the spring plate to be biased upwardly i.e. towards the ventral surface of the proximal end of the cradle during the heel strike portion of a user s gait. When the spring plate is biased in this fashion it absorbs some of the ground reaction force during heel strike. Moreover the energy absorbed by the spring plate is then released as a user s weight shifts from the heel to the toe portion of the user s foot during the gait cycle thus facilitating ambulation.

In view of the need to maintain a distance between the proximal end of the cradle and the proximal end of the spring plate in the embodiment of the ventral surface of the cradle extends upwardly from the dorsal surface of the spring plate from the point at which it contacts the spring plate and the cradle should be formed from a material which is sufficiently rigid to maintain a distance when a user s heel exerts downward force against the cradle during at least a portion of the gait cycle. In the embodiment of the distance between the proximal end of the cradle and the proximal end of the spring plate is maintained at least in part by the dorsal heel pivot which is adjacent to the proximal ends of the cradle and spring plate and which is positioned in between them.

The contact point between the ventral surface of the cradle and the dorsal surface of the spring plate in the embodiments of serves as an axis about which the spring plate can bend when upward ground reaction forces are exerted against the proximal end of the spring plate . The amount of deformation experienced by the proximal end of a spring plate over the distance that the proximal end travels before contacting the underside of the cradle should be within the elastic limit of the spring plate .

Positioned below the spring plate is a ventral heel pivot having a medial end a lateral end a dorsal surface a ventral surface a proximal end and a distal end . The ventral heel pivot provides a second axis about which bending of the spring plate occurs. When a downward force is exerted by the heel of a user on the cradle a portion of that force is exerted proximally of the ventral heel pivot and causes the spring plate to bend downwardly i.e. such that the ventral surface at the proximal end of the spring plate becomes closer to the ground.

The ventral heel pivot and other pivots are preferably longitudinal preferably extending across at least 70 of the width of the spring plate and more preferably extending across at least 90 or across all of the width of the spring plate although in some embodiments a plurality of pivots can be used to form an axis around which the spring plate can bend. The pivots illustrated in have an elliptical or hemispherical cross section but differently shaped pivots can also be used for example tubular pivots bars having a square cross section contoured pivots or pivots of other shapes. One of skill in the art can determine an appropriate shape and material for the pivots depending on the properties of the spring plate and on the placement of the pivots within the present spring orthotic.

The pivots can be hollow as illustrated in if they are formed from a sufficiently rigid material in order to reduce the weight of the present spring orthotic but they can also be formed of a solid piece of material. In one embodiment the dorsal heel pivot can be integrally molded with the cradle . One advantage in using hollow pivots in particular convex hollow pivots is that they can provide additional impact protection to a user by being designed to break or deform at a pressure which is less than the pressure at which the bones in a user s foot would break thereby protecting the user from fractures including stress fractures in the bones of the foot.

In some embodiments the ventral heel pivot can comprise a part of a shoe such as a part of the sole of a shoe with which the spring plate is mechanically connected. In such embodiments the portion of the shoe below the proximal end of the spring plate would provide sufficient clearance i.e. vertical space between the ventral side of the spring plate and the bottom of the shoe to allow the proximal end of the spring plate to bend vertically downward when downward pressure is exerted on it such as by the heel of a user during the heel strike portion of the gait cycle.

The ventral heel pivot preferably extends longitudinally across at least a portion of the width of the spring plate i.e. between the medial side and lateral side of the spring plate . The longitudinal extent of the ventral heel pivot i.e. the distance between the medial end and the lateral end is preferably sufficient to allow the entire width of the spring plate to bend evenly around the axis point created by the ventral heel pivot when downward heel pressure is exerted by the heel of a user. This is to allow more of the spring plate to bend thereby providing more spring force to be harnessed when downward pressure is exerted by the heel of a user on the spring plate . The ventral heel pivot should for this reason also be sufficiently rigid to allow the spring plate to bend around the axis point created by the ventral heel pivot . During the heel strike portion of the gait of a user when downward heel pressure is applied to the proximal end of the spring plate the axis point created by the ventral heel pivot is at or adjacent to the proximal end of the ventral heel pivot .

In the foregoing description it can be seen that the spring plate of the present spring orthotic device undergoes a double bending during the heel strike portion of the user s gait thus absorbing a greater amount of force than would be the case if the spring plate were bent around only a single axis. The first bending around an axis created by the ventral heel pivot occurs due to the downward force exerted by the heel of a user s foot while a second bending can occur in the embodiment of around the axis point created by the point in which the ventral surface of the cradle contacts the dorsal surface of the spring plate . In the embodiment of the second bending axis occurs at or adjacent the ventral surface of the dorsal heel pivot where the dorsal heel pivot contacts the spring plate .

In a preferred embodiment illustrated in a second pivot namely the dorsal heel pivot is placed between the ventral surface of the cradle and the dorsal surface of the spring plate . The dorsal heel pivot is placed at the desired axis point which is proximal of the axis point created by the ventral heel pivot . The dorsal heel pivot preferably has similar physical and structural characteristics as the ventral heel pivot and can be made from the same or a similar material as the ventral heel pivot . The dorsal heel pivot likewise comprises a dorsal surface which is mechanically connected to the ventral surface of the cradle and a ventral surface which is in mechanical connection with the dorsal surface of the spring plate . The dorsal heel pivot further comprises a medial side a lateral side a proximal end and a distal end .

Preferably the dorsal heel pivot is located adjacent the proximal end of the spring plate in order to provide only a relatively short distance between the proximal end of the dorsal heel pivot where the bending axis occurs and the proximal end of the spring plate . As described above by providing such a shorter distance less leverage is exerted against the proximal end of the spring plate and the spring plate is thus able to absorb a greater ground reaction force over a shorter bending moment. In a preferred embodiment the dorsal heel pivot is within about four centimeters of the proximal end of the spring plate and in a more preferred embodiment the dorsal heel pivot is within about one centimeter of the proximal end of the spring plate .

The peak pressure point on a user s heel is at the point on the surface of the heel which is below the calcaneal tuberosity. Therefore in preferred embodiments the dorsal heel pivot is placed vertically below the calcaneal tuberosity when the user s heel is in contact with the dorsal surface of the cradle . In embodiments in which the dorsal surface of the cradle includes a heel depression the dorsal heel pivot is thus placed below the center of the concave surface creating the heel depression in order to best position the dorsal heel pivot .

The dorsal heel pivot preferably has a length greater than its width and the length of the dorsal heel pivot preferably extends from a point at or adjacent to the medial end of the cradle to a point at or adjacent to the lateral end on the dorsal surface of the cradle . The length of the dorsal heel pivot is also preferably approximately perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cradle . The embodiments of employ such a pivot in which the pivot is rounded along its longitudinal axis such that spring plate bends smoothly along the surface of the dorsal heel pivot . Rounded pivots are generally preferred in embodiments using a carbon fiber spring plate as the use of sharper angles in the pivots may tend to break the carbon fibers in such embodiments. In other embodiments the length of the dorsal heel pivot pivot can be angled with respect to the longitudinal extent of the cradle such as at an angle of 5 10 15 30 or other desired angles.

In alternative embodiments such as that shown in the dorsal heel pivot can comprise one or more flat or curved surfaces along its longitudinal extent. In the embodiment of a lower flat surface is provided which contacts and is preferably secured to the spring plate . A proximal flat surface extends proximally from the lower surface of the pivot to the ventral surface of the cradle while a ventral flat surface extends distally from the lower surface of the pivot to the ventral surface of the cradle . Providing flat surfaces which meet at a defined angle such as surfaces and in allows the spring plate to bend more sharply and affects the spring characteristics of the present spring orthotic device. The angle can be 90 or can be an acute angle as shown in such as an angle of 20 30 45 or other desired angles. In addition a plurality of flat surfaces joined at a defined angle can also be provided between a lower surface and the ventral surface of the cradle in order to provide different spring characteristics.

In the embodiments of dorsal heel pivots are shown in which the lower surfaces of such pivots are approximately parallel to the dorsal surface of the cradle along their longitudinal extents. shows a further alternative embodiment of a pivot in which the pivot is elevated on one lateral side as compared with the other lateral side of the heel pivot such that the lower surface forms an oblique angle with respect to the dorsal surface of the cradle . In the illustrated embodiment lateral side extends further from the dorsal surface than medial side although embodiments in which medial side extends further from the dorsal surface than lateral side are also possible. The embodiment of can assist in correcting inversion and eversion pronation of the foot and can also help to stabilize the ankle and elevate a foot s arch.

In addition to dorsal heel pivots with flat surfaces such pivots can alternatively comprise alternative shapes which comprise or include contoured surfaces as in the embodiment of . In this embodiment the dorsal heel pivot comprises a lower surface which is hemispherical in shape. Pivots in this embodiment allow for ankle strengthening and flexibility of the leg and hip.

In some embodiments it can also be advantageous to include bracing i.e. a rigid support attached or otherwise mechanically connected to the spring orthotic device. Such bracing provides further mechanical advantage and increases the efficiency of the device and can assist in preventing a user s heel from lifting up i.e. losing contact with and separating from the surface of the cradle of the device or from an insole above the cradle.

One of the advantages of the present spring orthotic is in reducing the peak ground reaction force exerted against the underside of a user s foot in a situation when the user has experienced an injury or other damage to the foot in particular damage caused by obesity diabetes competitive sport and exercise. By reducing the ground reaction force exerted against the underside of such a user s foot and transmitted into a user s body the present spring orthotic devices reduces pain and further injury or damage to the user s foot and or other parts of the body such as the ankle hip knees and lower back . In view of the additional benefit to users who are of greater than average weight the spring plate is preferably configured to absorb greater than 2 more preferably greater than 10 and even more preferably greater than 50 of the ground reaction force exerted against an individual of greater than average weight currently about 72 kilograms for a woman and 86 kilograms for a man in the U.S. . More preferably the spring plate can be configured to absorb similar ground reaction forces for individuals in the 95th percentile of the weight of individuals in the population or between about 113 and 122 kilograms. In some instances the spring connectors can be configured to absorb ground reaction forces of an individual of even greater weight such as a weight of 80 kilograms.

The spring plate of the present spring orthotic device is formed from a material which can be elastically deformed by the forces exerted against the device during locomotion in order to store and then release mechanical energy. A spring plate can be formed from any of a number of materials that can flex in order to store and release mechanical energy including plastics such as polycarbonate plastics and metals such as steel. However in preferred embodiments the spring plate is formed from a composite material such as carbon fiber. For example glass and carbon fiber composite laminates can be used to form the present spring plate . Materials having a large ratio of Modulus of Elasticity density are desirable due to an increase in the stiffness of the material with a reduction in weight. Table 1 below illustrates the favorable ratio of Modulus of Elasticity density that can be provided by carbon fiber materials 

In a further embodiment illustrated in the spring plate of the present spring orthotic can comprise further pivots such as a ventral ball pivot and or a toe pivot . The ventral ball pivot includes a medial end a lateral end a dorsal surface a ventral surface a proximal end and a distal end . The ventral ball pivot is positioned in connection with the ventral surface of the spring plate in a like manner as the ventral heel pivot but is located distally of the ventral heel pivot . As a user s gait transitions to the toe off portion of the gait cycle the ventral ball pivot provides an axis at around its distal end around which the spring plate can bend and thereby absorb ground reaction force exerted against the distal or ball portion of a user s foot. Preferably the ventral ball pivot is positioned under the metatarsal heads of a user s foot. Additionally a dorsal ball pivot can be provided between the spring plate and the cradle either proximally or distally of the ventral ball pivot in order to provide the advantages of a double spring as described above.

The toe pivot illustrated in differs from the foregoing pivots in that its longitudinal extent is between its proximal end and its distal end i.e. the longer portion of the toe pivot is placed in a direction which is roughly perpendicular to that of the foregoing pivots and roughly parallel to the forward direction in which a foot travels during the gait cycle i.e. to the longitudinal extent of the present spring orthotic. More importantly the longitudinal extent of the toe pivot is oriented so as to provide an axis along the longitudinal extent around which bending occurs in a side to side direction i.e. so as to absorb ground reaction forces exerted preferentially on one side of a user s foot. During the toe off portion of the gait cycle greater downward forces can be exerted against one side of the user s foot either the medial or lateral side depending on the particular subject than against the other side. The toe pivot is thus preferably located so that it provides an axis around which the medial side and or the lateral side of the spring plate can bend downwardly during the toe off portion of the gait cycle. In other embodiments the longitudinal extent of the toe pivot can be angled with respect to the longitudinal extent of the spring plate such as at an angle of 5 10 15 30 or other desired angles. Toe pivots can assist in controlling inversion and eversion of the forefoot i.e. supination and pronation. In other embodiments such longitudinally extending pivots can be positioned at the proximal end of the present device i.e. adjacent proximal end of the present spring plate in order to control inversion and eversion of the rear portion of a user s foot.

In embodiments of the present spring orthotic which incorporate pivots having a length and width of different dimensions such as the pivots shown in B and A having a length greater than their width the pivots can be mounted on the cradle and or on the spring plate in a horizontally rotatable but securable fashion. In this embodiment the pivots can be rotated about a fixed axis either a central axis or an axis adjacent to a longitudinal end of the pivot in order to change the spring characteristics of the present spring orthotic device. The pivots are reversibly securable so that they can be rotated but then secured in a fixed position on the cradle and or on the spring plate . Alternatively or in addition the pivot or pivots can be vertically adjustable i.e. to adjust the vertical height of a pivot. Horizontal and or vertical adjustment of a pivot can be accomplished for example using a ratcheted mechanism in which the pivot comprises receptacles teeth or other projections which engage receptacles teeth or other projections on or attached to a cradle or spring plate thereby forming a toothed mechanism which rotates the pivot. In this way the pivot can be adjusted in three dimensions.

The ventral heel pivot and dorsal heel pivot as well as other pivots as disclosed herein can also be of different shapes sizes and dimensions in order to provide a customized device which meets the needs of a particular individual. For example a spring orthotic having a dorsal heel pivot of greater height than the ventral heel pivot can provide a longer softer contact between the spring plate and the lower surface which it contacts. In another embodiment a spring orthotic having a ventral heel pivot of greater height than the dorsal heel pivot can provide a bigger lever radius and allow more mechanical work to be done by the present device.

This same concept is applied in a different manner in the embodiment of which illustrates an alternative spring plate in which an area over the ball of a user s foot stores and releases less mechanical energy as compared to surrounding portions of the spring plate in order to reduce the amount of force applied to high pressure areas. For example portion can be formed with a thinner or softer material as compared to the remainder of the spring plate. Alternatively the spring plate can comprise holes in areas of the spring plate in which it is desired to reduce the force exerted against a user s foot.

In some embodiments a more rigid area of material i.e. having greater tensile strength and or being less flexible can be provided beneath the portion of a user s foot between the first metatarsal phalangeal joint. This reduces hallux dorsilexion and in individuals suffering from arthritis in this joint this can reduce pain and inflammation of this joint. A more rigid portion of the present spring plate can also advantageously be provided beneath areas in which a user has experienced an amputation or other loss of a digit for example as a result of diabetes. The greater tensile strength can compensate for the loss of the digit or digits and reduce pressure and or stress on the remaining digits. In order to further reduce the peak ground reaction force exerted against the ball of a foot the distal portion of the present spring orthotic device can be provided with a forefoot spring. The forefoot spring is preferably able to absorb at least about 2 of the ground reaction force more preferably at least about 5 10 of the ground reaction force and even more preferably at least 50 of the ground reaction force which is exerted against it.

In the embodiments of the present device shown in and A E the spring plates extend along the length of a user s foot and include a forefoot spring plate portion below the ball of the foot of a user when the user uses the present spring orthotic device. The forefoot spring plate in these embodiments is generally planar in configuration and can be formed from the same type of material as the remainder of spring plate for example from a composite material like carbon fiber. In the alternative embodiment shown in the forefoot spring plate includes a downwardly extending convex form which can be in the shape of a full or partial hemisphere. When upward ground reaction force is exerted against the lower convex surface of the forefoot spring the spring deflects and absorbs some of the ground reaction force so that the central portion of the forefoot spring plate is able to deflect downwardly when pressure is exerted downwardly against its dorsal surface.

Spring plates are typically placed in a piece of footwear above the outsole as shown in . In the spring plate is illustrated as being a unitary construction in which the spring plate extends along the length of a shoe. however shows an alternative embodiment in which the spring plate extends only to the ball of the foot at or adjacent to where the cradle meets the spring plate . A separate forefoot spring then extends distally from the distal end of the spring plate . In this way gait assistance can still be provided to a user while reducing or avoiding breakage of the spring plate at the junction of the cradle and the spring plate . The forefoot spring preferably overlaps with the spring plate i.e. the proximal end of the forefoot spring extends proximally beyond the distal end of the spring plate .

The spring plate is also preferably freely retained within a piece of footwear comprising this embodiment of the present shoe orthotic i.e. the spring plate is not bonded or otherwise physically joined to the forefoot spring portion although connectors linking the two structures can also be provided in ways known to the art if desired. The forefoot spring can be made from the same type of material as the spring plate with similar properties or alternatively can be formed from a material having different properties than the spring plate . For example the forefoot spring can comprise a combination of materials as illustrated in the embodiments of or can comprise a single material having different properties than the spring plate .

In a further embodiment of the present spring orthotic device the device can comprise a plurality of spring plates stacked in a vertical manner. The embodiment illustrated in includes two spring plates an upper spring plate and a lower spring plate although additional spring plates can be used. The first ventral heel pivot of the upper spring plate is positioned with respect to a dorsal heel pivot if used as in other embodiments of the present spring orthotic but the lower surface of the first ventral heel pivot in this embodiment is placed in contact with or otherwise mechanically connected to the upper surface of the lower spring plate . A second ventral heel pivot in contact with or otherwise mechanically connected to the lower surface of the lower spring plate is positioned proximally of the first ventral heel pivot i.e. the axis around which the lower spring plate bends with respect to the first ventral heel pivot is located distally of the axis around which the lower spring plate bends with respect to second ventral heel pivot . The use of additional spring plates can allow larger loads to be born by the present spring orthotic device.

The bending moment torque of the proximal end of the spring plate i.e. the rotational force bending the spring plate about an axis is determined both by the material properties of the spring plate and by the distance between the axis point and the proximal end of the spring plate where the spring plate contacts the surface on which it is placed either the ground or a shoe in most cases . The amount of distance between the axis and the proximal end determines the amount of leverage exerted on the spring plate with shorter distances providing less leverage which thereby allows the spring plate to absorb a greater ground reaction force with a smaller amount of deflection bending . The spring plate should bend around axis point at deflection angles of between 1 and 90 preferably at deflection angles of between 15 and 60 .

As further illustrated in when a downward stepping force is applied by the heel of a user against the cradle of the present device the spring plate is bent downward around ventral heel pivot storing the stepping force as potential energy as tension in the material of the spring plate . The force of the user s heel then continues to bend the spring plate downward and when the proximal end of the spring plate contacts the surface directly beneath it generally an outsole the spring plate is bent upward around the dorsal heel pivot by ground reactive forces G . This double bending of the spring plate essentially doubles the potential force lifting power of the spring plate as calculated in Formula I above while effectively minimizing stress on the material of the spring plate .

During the latter portion of a gait cycle as the heel of a user is raised the potential energy stored in the spring plate by the application of a downward stepping force is released as the spring plate returns to its pre bending shape helping a user of the present device to bring the foot back to a horizontal position. As shown in in embodiments of the present device which incorporate a forefoot spring the bending of the spring plate around the ball of the foot at point P in due to the ground reactive forces G and G results in additional potential energy being stored in the spring plate . The potential force P stored in the spring plate during this phase of the gait cycle can be expressed as follows Formula II 

By manipulation of the dimensions of the spring plate the relationship of the pivots or the materials utilized different spring factors can be achieved. For example the formula above can be seen to be very sensitive to the distance between pivots L . If the distance of the pivots is reduced by only 10 the normal force exerted on the heel is increased by over 40 . The normal force exerted on the heel can also be manipulated by changing the cross sectional shape of the spring plate which increases the spring plates resistance to bending moment of inertia . Increasing the thickness of the spring plate by 10 will increase the normal force nearly 35 and doubling the thickness will increase the force by 800 .

The efficiency and energy conservation which can be achieved by the present spring orthotic device is enhanced by the leverage provided by footwear and other supports mechanically connected to the present device. As shown in when 25 kilograms of force is exerted at a point P at the front of the housing of a boot that includes the present device in which is 160 millimeters from a fulcrum F on the spring plate and when the distance from the fulcrum F to the distal end of the spring plate is 80 millimeters 50 kilograms of force is exerted at the distal end of the spring plate . This is expressed by the following formula Formula III where 

The present spring orthotic device can also be incorporated into an ankle foot orthosis in order to assist individuals having foot or leg injuries which require the need for a leg brace. An orthosis can also be used by individuals without such injuries as the securing of the brace portion of the orthosis above the ankle of a user can assist in harnessing more torque from the distal portion of the spring plate . In one embodiment illustrated in an ankle foot orthosis comprising the spring system of the previously described spring orthotics includes a vertical support a cradle and a brace or fastener for attaching the ankle foot orthosis to the leg of a subject. In this embodiment the proximal end of the cradle is attached to or integrally formed with the lower end of the vertical support . The vertical support as shown in extends vertically upward from the proximal end of the cradle and is designed to be placed adjacent to the rearward side of a subject s leg when the ankle foot orthosis is worn. The vertical support can be made from rigid materials known to those skilled in the art such as a carbon fiber composite or plastic and can be made from the same material as the cradle or from a different material.

The fastener shown in is attached to the upper end of the vertical support . Additional fasteners can also be placed along the longitudinal extent of the brace in order to better secure the ankle foot orthosis to a subject s leg. The fastener shown in comprises a strap for placement around the leg of a subject but can alternatively comprise other configurations or mechanisms as known to those skilled in the art. Likewise the vertical support can be configured differently depending on the need of the subject. In some embodiments a second vertical support extending upward from a user s knee can be joined at a lower end by a hinged connection to the vertical support .

The ankle foot orthosis further includes a spring plate below the cradle a dorsal heel pivot and a ventral heel pivot . The foregoing components of the ankle foot orthosis are the same as has been described previously for the spring orthotic device and therefore are not further described in detail here. Additional pivots and the alternative configurations described previously for the present spring device can also be used with the ankle foot orthosis and therefore are also not described here.

The prosthetic device differs from the ankle foot orthosis of in that the fastener is configured both to attach the prosthetic device to the limb of subject in this case an amputated limb but is also designed to support an amputated limb above the ground. The vertical support likewise differs from the vertical support in that it must be sufficiently strong to bear at least some of the weight of an individual wearing the prosthetic device above the surface of the ground.

The horizontally extending support differs from the cradle of the ankle foot orthosis of in that it is unnecessary for the dorsal surface of the horizontal support to be shaped to receive the underside of a foot. As shown in the prosthetic device further comprises a spring plate a dorsal heel pivot and a ventral heel pivot below the horizontal support . Although not illustrated in at least the spring plate the dorsal heel pivot and the ventral heel pivot would typically be located within a housing which in some embodiments can approximate the form of a human foot. Additional pivots used with the present spring orthotic and other features described above can also be used in a spring prosthetic according to the present invention.

In order to facilitate a normal gait for the user of the prosthetic device the ventral heel pivot and the dorsal heel pivot are positioned at a proximal end of the horizontal support in a manner similar to the positioning of these components in the spring orthotic described above. In the embodiment illustrated in the vertical support is attached to or integrally formed with the horizontal support at a first point which is distal to the positioning of the ventral heel pivot and the dorsal heel pivot . However in an alternative embodiment the vertical support can be attached to the horizontal support at a position which is closer to or at the proximal end of the horizontal support in a similar manner to the way that the vertical support of the ankle foot orthosis connects with the cradle . As shown in the vertical support is also connected to the horizontal support at a second point distal of the first point by a cross support which attaches at a proximal end to a point on the vertical support which is vertically above the lower end and attaches at a distal end to a point on the horizontal support which is distal of the point at which the lower end of the vertical support attaches to the horizontal support . Cross support can in an alternative embodiment be integrally formed with the vertical support and or with the horizontal support and no space between the cross support and vertical support is required.

As illustrated in the use of the present spring orthotic device in conjunction with a crutch ankle foot orthosis or other mechanical arrangement that involves bracing of the device to a user s leg greatly increases the efficiency of the device and provides greater leverage. For example when 25 kilograms of force is exerted on the illustrated brace 125 kilograms of force is exerted at the distal end of the spring plate a 5 1 mechanical advantage .

A longer support such as a crutch provides additional mechanical advantage. In the embodiment illustrated in a 15 1 mechanical advantage can be obtained with a 1200 millimeter support. In this embodiment 8 kilograms of force exerted at the top of the crutch will result in 125 kilograms of force at the distal end of the spring plate i.e. a longer lever will achieve a greater mechanical advantage.

The spring system described above can alternatively also be used in a locomotion system for a robot or other machine or mechanical device in particular locomotion systems which make use of supports or other appendages that are raised above the ground and then returned to the ground at a different point in a gait cycle in order to move a mechanical device. The present device can be used to reduce the impact forces experienced by such a mechanical device. This embodiment can be similar to the prosthetic device illustrated in except that the vertical support is attached at an upper end to a part of a robotic or other mechanical system in particular to a hinged joint of such a device. In a further alternative the upper end of the vertical support can be attached to a bionic system i.e. to mechanical or electromechanical components that augment or replace physiological functions.

The present spring orthotic device is typically worn inside of a shoe or other piece of footwear and can be designed to be removed from the shoe and incorporated into a different shoe. In such embodiments the ventral side of the spring orthotic faces and or is in contact with the dorsal side of an insole of a piece of footwear. When the present device also comprises an ankle foot orthosis prosthetic or other device that supports a limb of a subject such a device can likewise be designed to be used with a standard shoe as in the embodiments illustrated in .

In some embodiments the present spring orthotic devices can be incorporated into shoes in an irreversible fashion such that the shoe would have to be damaged in order to remove the device such as by severing an adhesive or sewn connection. In such embodiments the present spring orthotic can take the place of a midsole in the shoe as illustrated in which shows the placement of the present orthotic above the outsole of a boot.

The foregoing spring orthotic devices facilitate the gait of a user by absorbing ground reaction forces by spreading peak ground reaction forces and by exerting force upward upon the release of energy absorbed by the spring plates of the device thereby lessening the amount of energy needed by a user to walk. In the case of individuals who are overweight or who have experienced injuries to their lower extremities the foregoing are important advantages.

When a spring orthotic is present in a shoe or prosthetic of a subject the benefits of using such an orthotic begin at heel strike when upward ground reaction force is exerted at the proximal end of a shoe in which the present device is positioned. The proximal end of the spring plate is biased bent upward around an axis at the proximal end of the dorsal heel pivot or around an axis in the embodiment of by such ground reaction force at heel strike. At the same time or shortly thereafter downward force exerted by the heel of a user on the cradle biases a more distal portion of the spring plate downwardly around an axis at the proximal end of the ventral heel pivot . The bending of the spring plate around the dorsal heel pivot and the ventral heel pivot absorbs energy which is released later in the gait cycle.

As the gait cycle continues and the weight of the user shifts forwardly i.e. in the direction of ambulation ground reaction force at the proximal end of the spring orthotic lessens. When the amount of force exerted by the spring plate due to the bending of the spring plate around the dorsal heel pivot and the ventral heel pivot exceeds the ground reaction force exerted against the proximal portion of the spring plate the spring plate begins to bend in the opposite direction i.e. the proximal end of the spring plate bends downward around the axis at the proximal end of the dorsal heel pivot and the more distal portion of the spring plate bends upwardly around the axis at the proximal end of the ventral heel pivot thereby releasing its stored energy. The spring plate at this point exerts an upward spring force thereby reducing the amount of effort required by a user of the spring orthotic to complete this portion of the gait cycle.

As the weight of the user continues to shift forwardly during the gait cycle downward force is exerted at a more distal portion of the spring plate . The spring plate then bends downwardly around an axis at the proximal end of the ventral ball pivot . Later in the gait cycle as the user s weight continues to shift forward the energy absorbed by the bending of the spring plate around the ventral ball pivot is exerted upwardly further reducing the amount of effort required by a user of the spring orthotic to complete this portion of the gait cycle.

A spring plate for use in the present spring orthotic was produced from carbon fiber. The spring plate had the following characteristics as measured in connection with Formula I above 

The force exerted on by this spring plate in order to advance it to the deflected position was 90.94 lbs.

A cradle as illustrated in was produced for use in applications in which there may be a risk of shoe puncture. The cradle was formed from 10 layers of 12 k carbon fiber woven by Sigmatex Benicia Calif. using Toray 700 fibers Torray International America Inc. New York N.Y. and Resin Services Inc. Sterling Heights Mich. epoxy resin. The layers forming the cradle were placed in a vacuum bag autoclave 4 bar following curing for 2 hours at 200 F. The resulting cradles were 7 mm thick.

A cradle was made using the method described in Example 2 above except that 6 layers of the carbon fiber and one layer of KEVLAR were used resulting in a cradle 5.6 mm thick. Beginning from the bottom side of the cradle 1 layer of 12K carbon fiber was used 6 layers of KEVLAR were then applied and then a further layer of 12K carbon fiber was applied.

A cradle was made using the method described in Example 2 above except that 4 layers of KEVLAR and 7 layers of carbon fiber were used. Beginning from the bottom side of the cradle 1 layer of 12K carbon fiber was used 4 layers of KEVLAR were applied and then a further 6 layer of 12K carbon fiber were applied.

A spring plate was formed from a top layer and bottom layer of 12 k carbon fiber woven by Sigmatex Benicia Calif. using Toray 700 fibers Torray International America Inc. New York N.Y. with 4 layers of Hexcel 7781 fiberglass fibers Hexcel Corporation San Clemente Calif. in between bonded with PROSET epoxy resin ProSet Inc. Bay City Mich. . The spring plate was cured in a vacuum bag autoclave at 27 inches Hg 0.914 bar by ramping up the temperature to at 180 F. over the course of 3 hours followed by 6 hours of curing at 180 F.

A series of shoes and boots were tested for their puncture resistance and swing weight. Puncture protection was evaluated according to ASTM Standard F 2412 05 Standard Test Methods for Foot Protection as approved Mar. 1 2005 published March 2005 . Dynamic swing weight moment of inertia is an object s resistance to angular acceleration and is calculated according to the following formula Formula IV F m v r where 

Footwear was tested using a distance r of 1 meter and a tangential velocity of 5.55 meters per second. The results are shown in and in Table 2 below. Figure legends in are as follows 

A lower dynamic swing weight means that the object is easier to move or accelerate. As can be seen graphically in shoes including the present spring orthotic device can provide superior puncture protection at a low swing weight and thus a dramatically enhanced puncture protection at a given amount of footwear swing weight.

Spring orthotics similar to those used in Example 6 with 10 mm thick carbon fiber cradles incorporating KEVLAR were incorporated into footwear for evaluation for their effect on jumping performance. Individuals performed a series of vertical jumps and standing broad jumps using RHINO wrestling shoes incorporating such spring orthotics and the same individuals performed the same vertical jumps and standing broad jumps barefoot and with Nike SHOX athletic shoes and Belleville army boots.

The results of the vertical jump test are shown in and the results of the standing broad jump test are shown in . Figure legends A E in represent the following 

The foregoing tests indicate that footwear incorporating the present spring orthotics having puncture resistant cradles perform as well as or better than other footwear and that the present spring orthotics do not decrease the performance of footwear.

Although the present invention has been discussed in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments other embodiments are possible. The steps disclosed for the present methods are not intended to be limiting nor are they intended to indicate that each step is necessarily essential to the method but instead are exemplary steps only. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of preferred embodiments contained in this disclosure. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

