---

title: Systems and methods for generating user entertainment activity profiles
abstract: Systems and methods for tracking a user's lifestyle and activity profile. This profile can be automatically updated in real time. User activity on a site is tracked. User activity from third party feeds is also received. The user activity is then combined to generate the user's total profile. A pulse engine processes the feeds, updates the profiles, creates pulse alerts, routes updates to APIs or user interfaces, and/or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635267&OS=08635267&RS=08635267
owner: CBS Interactive Inc.
number: 08635267
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
The present application claims benefit of priority based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 312 213 filed Mar. 9 2010 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The subject invention relates to systems and methods for monitoring user activity such as entertainment activity and generating user activity profiles.

People are using the Internet to shop socialize play games and many other entertainment activities. For example people have flocked to FACEBOOK and TWITTER for social networking and many of those people are posting or tweeting their thoughts behaviors and activities. Users however are often navigating from one site to the next making it difficult to keep their friends apprised of all of their activities. However the breadth of content and entertainment related sites such as music streaming sites travel sites ticket distributors and the like means that much user activity such as entertainment consumption travel exercise activity purchase activity and the like is memorialized on line.

Some websites have started tracking popular pages or stories. For example cnn.com has a news pulse page that ranks stories by popularity. Facebook s user home page includes a list of top stories . These tracking features however only track the popularity of each individual story and either display only those that meet a certain popularity threshold or display the stories based on a ranking of popularity.

Systems and methods for tracking a user s lifestyle and entertainment activity profile are disclosed. This profile can be automatically updated in real time. User entertainment activity on CBSi s sites e.g. last.fm tv.com or any other company s in network site may be tracked. User activity from third party feeds is also tracked e.g. Xbox Live Nike Netflix Open Table Twitter Kindle Firefox etc. . All of the user activity is then combined temporally to generate the user s total entertainment lifestyle profile. A pulse engine can process all of the feeds in real time update the profiles create pulse alerts routes updates to APIs or user interfaces etc. Accordingly user entertainment activity can be monitored processed and shared with others in a convenient manner.

An exemplary profile that can be used with the system include a games progress tracker that records and displays user activity in a particular game e.g. character scores levels etc. . The display may be akin to a baseball card or badge of honor with the user s activities.

Another exemplary profile is metacritic. The reviews of high profile critics can be combined with buzz feeds about a reviewable asset e.g. movies restaurants games etc. . The buzz feeds are identified by tracking certain key words associated with those assets on the web e.g. twitter blogs key websites entire Internet etc. .

An exemplary application of the profile includes an EKG of entertainment activity a real time activity feed that is shown in a user interface analogous to an EKG . The users entertainment activities for various sites are displayed individually and together with a combined feed representing the user s total entertainment activity. The timing of each individual user activity is tracked so that the temporal relationships patterns in the user s individual and combined entertainment activities can be seen. Users can mouse over or click on the feeds to learn more detailed specific information about the user activity.

The data can be used for entertainment data analytics advertising application development competitions recommendations engines and the like. Also the data may also be used to create and target custom offers such as coupons or the like to the user. The user activity data can also be combined with non user activities e.g. weather national world events financial events etc. . Non entertainment user activity can also be tracked and combined with the user entertainment activity and or non user activities such as for example auto data health travel hobbies location gps credit card other electronic purchases etc.

An embodiment of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to . illustrates a web based system for delivering content to a user. The system includes a host site and a plurality of user systems i.e. computing devices coupled via a network . The system includes a server and memory .

The host site is connected to the plurality of user systems over the network . The server is in communication with the memory . The system is typically a computer system and may be an HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol server e.g. an Apache server . The memory includes storage media which may be volatile or non volatile memory that includes for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and zip drives.

The network is a local area network LAN wide area network WAN an intranet the Internet or combinations thereof. The plurality of user systems may be mainframes minicomputers personal computers laptops personal digital assistants PDA cell phones and the like. The plurality of user systems are characterized in that they are capable of being connected to the network . The plurality of user systems typically include web browsers.

When a user of one of the plurality of user systems requests to access the server to view a web page a request is communicated to the host site over the network . For example a signal is transmitted from one of the user systems the signal having a destination address e.g. address representing the requested page a request e.g. a request to view the requested page and a return address e.g. address representing user system that initiated the request . The request may include a cookie that includes data identifying the user and or the user computer. The server accesses the database to provide the user with the requested web page which is communicated to the user over the network . For example another signal may be transmitted that includes a destination address corresponding to the return address of the client system and a web page responsive to the request.

It will be appreciated that the user activity in the user activity profile may be any activity such as entertainment related and or a consumption website where the user does something indicating activity. Exemplary categories include movies and television music video games shopping dining travel exercise concerts live events books and the like. For example every time a user rents a DVD watches a video online watches a television show through a cable provider listens to music purchases music rents a video game downloads add on packages plays a demo game purchases a product researches a product and kicks out to purchase the researched product reserves a table at a restaurant buys tickets to a show or concert buys a book or a newspaper or makes travel plans the user s activity may be considered for generating the user entertainment activity profile. Other types of non entertainment user activity that may be tracked for the user activity profile include for example health data e.g. fitness activities hobby data e.g. cooking knitting auto data e.g. fuel efficiency user location e.g. GPS and the like.

Video game play data can be used and can be collected from video game service providers such as RAPTOR and STEAM .

This user activity may be in network or out of network user activity. In other words the user activity may occur on a website associated with the pulse engine that is generating the profile or the user activity may occur on websites that are not associated with the pulse engine third party sites . The out of network activity may be provided to the system through the API feed which receives the user activity data from a variety of third party data feeds. The API feed may be an open or closed but available API. The data feeds include the activity data and relevant contextual information date time etc. . The in network activity may tracked in the user s profile established at that website. The data may also be obtained through an API request to a third party web site or the like.

In addition or in the alternatives users may have access to a portable activity tracking application e.g. on their smart phone or other portable device that allows users to report their activities to a central database accessible by or shared with the pulse engine .

The pulse engine then combines the user activity to generate the user activity profile. The pulse engine may compile the activity data feeds and process the data feeds in real time and update the user profiles. The pulse engine may also create pulse alerts based on rules and route updates and alerts via a pulse message bus. The pulse engine combines or aggregates the user activity based on the contextual data provided. For example all entertainment events that occur within a given period of time e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes hour day etc. may be aggregated together for a particular user. The resulting user activity profile includes a timeline of the user activity based on the aggregation.

When the pulse engine combines the user activity data it may weight one or more of the activity data types before combining the activity data e.g. renting a movie may be weighted higher than commenting on a friend s status on facebook . The pulse engine may additively combine the activity data to generate a combined activity feed for the user that is maintained with the user s profile. The pulse engine may also normalize the activity data prior to combining the activity data. Activity data can be processed in any manner and the processing can be different for different users and viewers of user activity.

The pulse engine may also calculate an entertainment activity score based on the user activity data and store the entertainment activity score with the personal activity profile. The pulse engine may also generate a graphical user interface that shows the combined user activity alone or in combination with the individual activity feeds.

The application development interface allows the user activity profile to be used in a variety of different contexts. For example users can embed an activity monitor in their blog website or other social network identity e.g. facebook profile that displays activities as they occur. This allows other users to follow that user do the same things as the user read the user s comments allow other users to put things on their list of things to do etc. Another exemplary application is a games progress tracker that displays a user s live gaming activity. The user can show their personal baseball card of gaming statistics and achievements which can be shared with other gamers or used to hold competitions.

It will be appreciated that the user activity data can be used for a variety of purposes including for example entertainment data analytics advertiser programs innovation e.g. power developer community of 3party applications competitions recommendations engine discovery of new activities and the like.

As shown in the process begins by tracking user use of a client computing device relating to entertainment activity on a web site to obtain first activity data block . The process continues by receiving a plurality of activity feeds from activity sources other than the web site each of the plurality of activity feeds indicating additional entertainment activity of the user to obtain second activity data block .

The process continues by combining the first activity data and the second activity data in a temporal manner to generate a personal entertainment activity profile of the user indicative of overall entertainment activity block . The process continues by storing the personal entertainment activity profile.

The exemplary computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. and a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. which communicate with each other via a bus .

The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting computer readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

It should be noted that the server is illustrated and discussed herein as having various modules which perform particular functions and interact with one another. It should be understood that these modules are merely segregated based on their function for the sake of description and represent computer hardware and or executable software code which is stored on a computer readable medium for execution on appropriate computing hardware. The various functions of the different modules and units can be combined or segregated as hardware and or software stored on a computer readable medium as above as modules in any manner and can be used separately or in combination.

It should be understood that processes and techniques described herein are not inherently related to any particular apparatus and may be implemented by any suitable combination of components. Further various types of general purpose devices may be used in accordance with the teachings described herein. It may also prove advantageous to construct specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein. The present invention has been described in relation to particular examples which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different combinations of hardware software and firmware will be suitable for practicing the present invention. The computer devices can be PCs handsets servers PDAs or any other device or combination of devices which can carry out the disclosed functions in response to computer readable instructions recorded on media. The phrase computer system as used herein therefore refers to any such device or combination of such devices. The phrase feed as used herein means any stream of data including but not limited to published feeds such as RSS feeds and discrete data sent in response to a request.

Moreover other implementations of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. Various aspects and or components of the described embodiments may be used singly or in any combination. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

