---

title: Ring in ring passive optical network system for providing fiber to the home with reduced number of fibers
abstract: A mini-optical line termination (OLT) includes at least one management card for providing control and management functions. A plurality of network cards having a predetermined number of ports are configured to support a predetermined number of subscribers by providing a gigabit passive optical network to the subscribers. At least one network device is coupled to an upstream device and the plurality of network cards. The at least one network device is configured to control the forwarding of data between the upstream device and the subscribers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118983&OS=09118983&RS=09118983
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09118983
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100603
---
This disclosure relates in general to hybrid fiber coaxial networks and more particularly to a method that eliminates or greatly minimizes the investment necessary to build additional fiber to the home or to the network headend.

Telecommunication companies continue to invest in deploying new broadband networks to provide interactive services for entertainment communication and lifestyle applications. However as services and channels are added to existing networks the available bandwidth can easily be exhausted. While there are multiple network structures capable of supporting broadband services providers of such networks continue to study how to integrate and take advantage of fiber optic network structures. As a result an ever increasing percentage of broadband providers are investing in fiber optic network structures to support both present and future bandwidth requirements.

Cable companies need a way to cost effectively extend fiber all the way to the home. A passive optical network PON is a network architecture that brings fiber cabling and signals to the home using a point to multipoint scheme that enables a single optical fiber to serve multiple premises. Encryption maintains data security in this shared environment. The architecture uses passive unpowered optical splitters reducing the cost of equipment compared to point to point architectures.

The GPON Gigabit passive optical network standard differs from other PON standards in that it achieves higher bandwidth and higher efficiency using larger variable length packets. GPON offers efficient packaging of user traffic with frame segmentation allowing higher quality of service QoS for delay sensitive voice and video communications traffic.

Further cable companies rely on third party technology partners to develop set top boxes STBs that can keep up with the demands. There may be a delay between the time the HFC is upgraded to provide 1 GHz bandwidth until third parties are able to provide the cable companies a set top box that functions at 1 GHz. Residential developers are also asking for cable companies to bring fiber straight to the home or to upgrade existing service. The problem with the traditional GPON architecture is that it does not take advantage of the fiber that is already in the ground. Rather a lot of new fiber is required which is problematic because often large construction projects are looking for a way to take advantage of the existing fiber that cable companies already have in place. The other issue with the existing GPON architecture is that the electronics for providing cable services are located in an existing facility or a new facility has to be built to house the equipment. Thus there is a significant amount of infrastructure in the outside plant.

Accordingly there is a need for a method that eliminates or greatly minimizes the investment necessary to build additional fiber to the home or to the network headend.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification embodiments for a method that eliminates or greatly minimizes the investment necessary to build additional fiber to the home or to the network headend are disclosed.

An embodiment includes a mini optical line termination OLT that includes at least one management card for providing control and management functions a plurality of network cards having a predetermined number of ports the plurality of network cards configured to support a predetermined number of subscribers by providing a gigabit passive optical network to the subscribers and at least one network device coupled to an upstream device and the plurality of network cards the network device configured to control the forwarding of data between the upstream device and the subscribers.

In another embodiment a ring in ring passive fiber optical network includes a headend for receiving and transmitting signals at least one fiber optic ring comprising a predetermined number of fibers wherein the at least one fiber optic ring comprising N fibers leaving the headend a number of fibers being split at each ring junction and a plurality of mini optical line terminations OLTs disposed within each ring the plurality of mini OLTs providing a ring in ring structure for servicing a predetermined number of subscribers. The plurality of mini OLTs may each have at least M network cards for providing signals for N subscribers and M distributed passive optical network cards coupled to the at least M network cards for providing a fiber to the home node each of the M distributed passive optical network cards servicing

In another embodiment method for providing a ring in ring passive optical network system for fiber to the home using a reduced number of fibers includes replacing passive optical network cards in a hub with network uplink cards providing passive optical network cards in a weather hardened device along with network cards positioning the weather hardened device proximate to subscriber premises coupling the network uplink cards to the weather hardened device in a ring configuration to provide signals to a first network card in the weather hardened device providing the signals to the passive optical network cards provided in the weather hardened device via the first network card arranging the passive optical network cards in a ring to the subscribers providing signals from the passive optical network cards to the subscribers returning signals from the subscribers to the passive optical network cards in the weather hardened device and providing the returned signals to a second network card via the passive optical network cards for forwarding back to the network uplink cards at the hub.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a method that eliminates or greatly minimizes the investment necessary to build additional fiber to the home or to the network headend. The GPON network according to an embodiment of the invention uses existing fiber rings. A mini optical line termination OLT device is used to host GPON. The architecture therefore eliminates the investment necessary to build additional fiber from the network headend to the neighborhood. Instead GPON according to an embodiment of the invention takes advantage of the existing infrastructure.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modem CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink uplink . The video data downlink may include fiber to the home FTTH and or coaxial cable. Further as will be explained below a mini optical line termination OLT device according to an embodiment of the invention not shown is used to host GPON. A system that uses the mini optical line termination OLT device according to an embodiment of the invention includes passive optical network cards that are provided in a weather hardened device along with network cards wherein the weather hardened device is positioned proximate to subscriber premises. Accordingly passive optical network cards in a hub may be replaced with network uplink cards. The network uplink cards may be coupled to the weather hardened device in a ring configuration to provide signals to network cards in the mini optical line termination OLT device. The passive optical network cards in the mini optical line termination OLT device are configured in a ring to the subscribers.

The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The data downlink uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understood by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz.

According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box .

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

In HFC Ring C there 10 nodes C C. There are 28 ring fibers originally assigned to Ring C . Each node has 2 fibers for a total of 20 fibers. That leaves 8 spares wherein 6 are provided for future nodes and 2 are provided for the DLC ring. In HFC Ring D there 15 nodes D D. There are 34 ring fibers originally assigned to Ring D . Each node has 2 fibers for a total of 30 fibers. That leaves 4 spares wherein 2 are provided for future nodes and 2 are provided for the DLC ring.

The mini OLT may be configured to be similar to the size of an existing HFC node manufactured by various companies like Harmonic Inc Motorola Arris etc. For example a node may be approximately 24 inches by 18 inches by 24 inches. Thus the mini OLT is small enough to install in the field. The mini OLT may also be configured with different cards to provide the needed functionality e.g. a mini OLT may include six GPON cards . The two management or control cards monitor the health of the mini OLT . The 4 port GPON cards may be 10 GPON 40 GPON etc. Accordingly the concept may be extended to higher speeds as needed in the future. Each GPON card is typically configured to serve 128 customers. Thus the mini OLT is configured to serve up to 256 customers. In addition a back plane is provided with non blocking connections to the cards. Thus the OLT according to an embodiment of the invention may be ringed together to provide protection.

Existing GPON architectures uses cards that are not environmentally hardened and thus are rated from 0 C. to 40 C. Further existing GPON architectures use an optical line termination OLT that is located within a technical facility e.g. a central office on a hub. Such OLTs takes up one third to one half of a seven foot telephone rack.

In contrast the GPON cards are hardened to obtain a rating from minus 30 C. to 65 C. 30 to 65 C. . Further the need to provide air conditioning fire protection etc. is eliminated. Commercial power is already available at these locations so there is no need to build additional infrastructure to provide power.

In addition rather than servicing 10 000 homes the mini OLT is much smaller in size and scope and therefore serves only 1 000 homes. Further the current architecture does not allow for any fail safe protection per se. By installing four or more of the mini OLT according to an embodiment of the invention onto a fiber ring additional fail safe protection is provided. The basic GPON ring and ring architecture is overlaid with the mini OLTs instead of nodes. Thus the architecture does not require a significant amount of fiber.

The 8 fibers exit the headend and split into two paths of 4 fibers each at a ring junction . After Mini OLT Ring A the four fibers split into two paths of two fibers each such as each pair of fibers . After Mini OLT Ring C the four fibers split into two paths of two fibers each such as each pair of fibers . With 16 mini OLTs homes may be serviced. In contrast a traditional GPON architecture would require a minimum of 64 fibers in each direction. Moreover from a transport perspective if a fiber cut occurs today thousands of GPON customers may lose service. However the GPON according to an embodiment of the invention would enable customers to survive in the event of a fiber cut without an outage because an alternate path would be available to communicate back to the headend.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

