---

title: Assigning tags to digital content
abstract: Assigning tags to content on a page stored within a digital document environment is described. An activity log is received for a document including data indicating search queries resulting in the location of the document by a search engine. One or more keywords are determined from the activity log, and the document is tagged with a tag associated with the keywords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396188&OS=09396188&RS=09396188
owner: CBS Interactive Inc.
number: 09396188
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101122
---
This application claims priority from and is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 950 169 filed Nov. 19 2010 now abandoned which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 312 032 filed Mar. 9 2010 entitled Method and Apparatus for Assigning Tags to Digital Content the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present document relates to content classification and discovery. More particularly to assigning tags to digital content.

Most content is now stored in digital format and accessible over networks. For example Document Management Systems DMS provide repositories of documents that can be searched and accessed over a network. Most DMS implementations are within a domain such as a company and are used to store documents that can be categorized in a relatively narrow set of topics. For example a law firm may have legal briefs and other legal documents stored in a DMS. Also downloadable or streaming media content is available in various domains.

Of course various repositories of documents and other content can be accessed over the Internet. The most common way of discovering content on the internet is through the use of search engines which index the content and then provide links to the content in response to keyword or topical search queries. More recently it has become popular to associate topical or other descriptive tags from a set of tags with content to facilitate content discovery and retrieval. The set of tags can be arranged in an ontology or other arrangement and applied to content in a manner which helps describe the content. Ideally the set of tags associated with a document represent a compressed or minimal description of the document which serves to both associate the document with its most similar neighbors and to discriminate it from others unlike it.

However there are many limitations to developing a set of tags and associating tags with content. For example different domains may use different sets of tags and tag arrangements. This may cause inconsistencies and even lack of interoperability between domains. Even within a domain with a predetermined tag arrangement the sheer amount of content makes it difficult to apply tags in a meaningful manner. There are tools for automated tagging. However such tools are limited and are not effective across broad spectrums of topics and content.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Assigning tags to digital content is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is apparent to one skilled in the art however that the description of various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments.

There is a need in the art for assigning a tag to content on a page stored within a searchable digital document environment. According to some embodiments a method includes receiving an activity log for a document said activity log including data indicating search queries resulting in the location of the document by a search engine determining from the activity log at least one keyword in a search query that resulted in location of the document and assigning a tag to the document with a tag associated with the at least one keyword.

According to some other embodiments an apparatus is a computer system programmed with instructions to accomplish these functional steps. The document can be the content to be tagged or a document related to the content to be tagged. For example the document can be a document describing video content available for downloading or streaming and which is to be tagged.

According to some other embodiments a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computing device is described. The one or more programs comprise in a digital content environment instructions for receiving an activity log for a content item said activity log including data indicating search queries resulting in a location of the content item by a search engine instructions for determining at least one keyword in a search query based on the activity log that resulted in the location of the content item and instructions for assigning the content item to a tag associated with the at least one keyword.

According to some other embodiments a method for assigning a tag to a content item includes receiving at least one content item. At least one term is determined based on a search query that brought a respective user to the at least one content item. A tag is assigned to the content item wherein the at least one term is associated with the tag and the term is useful in describing the content item. The tag is placed in a categorization structure that includes at least one tag set.

According to some other embodiments a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computing device is described. The one or more programs comprise instructions for receiving at least one content item instructions for determining at least one term based on a search query that returned a search result including the at least one content item the at least one term being useful in describing the content item instructions for assigning a tag to the content item wherein the tag is associated with the at least one term and instructions for placing the tag in a categorization structure that includes at least one tag set.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the various embodiments are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present description of the technology. The present description of the technology also is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present technology. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views illustrates an embodiment of a tagging system . Tagging system may include one or more tagging tools provided by commercial software products and solutions available from various vendors such as Hapax Amplify Attensit Autonomy Biz360 BuzzLogic Clarabridge IBM Infonic Inform Lexalytics TextDigger Leximancer MotiveQuest and RavenPack . As noted above tagging tools automated or otherwise are well known.

Tagging system receives content processes the content to extract useful information and provides access to the content for publishing runtime processing and analysis. Content can be received from content sources in various ways such as by being pushed to the tagging system by a remote service by being imported from a remote source and or through crawling the content source. Accordingly the phrase receiving content as used herein means that the content is made accessible directly or indirectly to tagging system .

Content sources can be any sources of content such as but not limited to web sites RSS feeds blogs or other user generated content social networks catalog data document management systems or the like. Content from content sources is made available to tagging server through a web crawler sent out by tagging server or other mechanism as noted above. Tagging server has parsing engine which parses and analyses the content and performs one or more of the following operations define a tag s define a term s define a topic s and or provide an interface for manually introducing defined topics.

Parsing engine can define a notion of a tag which has a representation that can semantically describe content as well as metadata such as links to other tags documents or topics thereby placing the tag in an ontology or other set of tags. A tag may be defined by any word string topic and or term that describes a document or has an associated meaning e.g. metadata . For example a tag may be a topic describing a classification for a document or a term contained in the document.

Parsing engine can define a notion of a term or terms in a document that is useful in describing the document. For example a term or terms may be a keyword or search term. Parsing engine may also define terms and topics based on any search terms that brought users to respective documents e.g. the user selected the document from a search result list. In addition parsing engine can define a notion of a topic e.g. a term that is also useful as a category. Parsing engine can also provide an interface for permitting manually defined topics to be introduced allowing editing of topics terms and tags and providing analytical data regarding content and the creation and use of tags and topics.

Tagging engine of tagging server associates tags with documents based on content item as previously described e.g. as defined by parsing engine and stores the documents in data warehouse . Other data for the tagging system may be stored in the data warehouse to be harvested by the parsing engine . In some embodiments the tagging engine may be a service provided by a commercial software product or solution previously described. Data warehouse may be accessed locally or from a remote location external to the tagging system . The tag or tags may be categorized or grouped into tag set . Tag set is also stored in data warehouse .

As noted above documents are an output of parsing engine . An example of a document is illustrated in . Document is created for each content item analyzed by tagging system and can include a global sequence unique raw document ID a collection ID indicating the content source of the content item a content item location ID such as a URL the text of the content item title summary author publication date and so on of the content item and a list of tags. The list of tags can potentially be empty and can include tag type tag identification and topics. Each tag in the list may have a weight value indicating the strength of the association. Tags can be assigned and associated with content subsequently by tagging engine . Tags can be assigned to content items in any manner. For example tags can be added to metadata in a document or can be recorded in a database as being associated with a content item.

A user having user computing device provides a query such as a series of keywords to search engine in a known manner. Search engine processes the query to find content items in content sources in a known manner. For example search engine can use an inverted index of the content items to match the content items to the key words in the query in a known manner.

In some embodiments each candidate search phrase is processed and scored before being added to a tag set. Tagging a set of content items such as keywords of one or more search queries may be determined by calculating a relative score for the content items in the set. The content items may be based on a predetermined score range. Various attributes may be considered in determining ranking Search phrases may be harvested from a data repository such as data warehouse as part of a more general query for URL activity. Keyword sets may be harvested according a category or attribute such as type of search engine or terms characterized by marked and monotonically increasing frequency over a predetermined time period. Content items may be prioritized according to documents having the most activity such as number of pageviews. Any search terms that resulted in the location of one or more documents or a particular set of documents are also identified for processing.

1. Compute frequency of all keywords for a given set of documents or feed. Keywords will be related by feed for example CBS News or Sports keywords.

2. Compute percentile rank for each keyword. First score each keyword based on frequency of occurrence. For example rank may be based on the percentage of values less than a score. That is a rank of 30 would indicate that search phrase had a score greater than 30 of all the search phrase scores. The percentile rank may be an adjusted percentile rank for example adjusting for the fact that standard metric uses values less than or equal to a given score rather than less than.

In an alternate process fast rising search terms may be extracted from the set of all search terms coming into target sites e.g. CBS Interactive sites in a predetermined period of time e.g. recent week . Fast rising phrases may be used to redo a search. In contrast to a popular search term such as spyware a fast rising search term is characterized by a marked and monotonically increasing frequency over the examined period. The motivation is to for example capture breaking news when it happens e.g. Gulf Oil Spill was initially a fast rising term but after short period gave way to other topics. For each of these fast rising terms a score is determined in relation to the results returned by a search such as the Google custom search engine. However it will be appreciated that the same processing and scoring may be modified to also apply to popular search terms e.g. high frequency of selection or popular search terms over a predetermined period of time.

In summary one example of determining a score includes determining a relative score by a score computation based on percentile ranking. For example percentile rank may be based on computing the frequency of a set of keywords. The frequency is assigned to the keyword as a raw score and depends on the number of times that keyword appears. If for example the keyword dog appears fifty times it is assigned a frequency raw score of 50. Based on the raw score a percentile rank is computed for each keyword. The raw scores may be sorted in descending order. Each keyword is ranked based on the percent of values less than its score. For each document the keyword score is assigned relative to the overall percentage rank of that keyword.

Scoring may be determined in other ways. In a search query returning a set of results for each document in the result weights may be utilized to rank the set of results. Assigning a weight score to a search term may be determined based on the location of that search term in a document result. For example a term located in a link may be given a different weight than if the term is located in the title of the document or in the text body of the document. The number of times a term appears in a document may be another factor and so on. Weight distribution may be based on one or a combination of these factors.

Tagged content should be organized into topics in order to be presented on topic page and may be created through either a manual or automatic process. Like a tag a topic is a term but it may or may not occur in the source document. For example an article on the television show CSI may be assigned to the television topic even if the term television does not appear explicitly in the document.

The embodiment can provide data and analysis relating to topic consumption . New categories can be created based on user interaction with the content. Data and reports of such user interaction can be collected aggregated and processed. This can be used to give content owners insight into how the content is being used across domains and present opportunities for repurposing of content.

In use when a user of one of the plurality of user systems wants to for example search for and navigate to a document as described above a request to access content is communicated to server over network . For example a signal is transmitted from one of the user systems the signal having a destination address e.g. address representing the server a request e.g. content request and a return address e.g. address representing the user system that initiated the request . Processor accesses memory to provide the requested content which is communicated to the user over network . For example another signal may be transmitted that includes a destination address corresponding to the return address of the client system and the content responsive to the request.

As shown in system architecture includes web layer cache site application application programming interface and a plurality of data stores . It will be appreciated that the system architecture may vary from the illustrated architecture. For example web layer may directly access data stores the site application may directly access data stores system architecture may not include cache etc. as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Data stores include a repository of data in accordance with any manner previously described. Web layer is configured to receive user requests for example to navigate a document through a web browser and return content that is responsive to the user request. Web layer communicates the user requests to cache . Cache is configured to temporarily store content that is accessed frequently by web layer and can be rapidly accessed by web layer . In one embodiment cache may be a caching proxy server. Cache communicates the user requests to site application .

Site application is configured to update cache and to process user requests received from web layer . Site application may identify that the user request is for a page that includes data from multiple sources. Site application can then convert the page request into a request for content from multiple sources and transmits these requests to application programming interface . Application programming interface is configured to simultaneously access data from the plurality of data stores to collect the data responsive to the plurality of requests from site application . The plurality of data stores may include for example content items an activity log data indicating search queries resulting in the location of a content item and the like. It will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments only one data store may be provided to store the data.

The data in data stores is provided to application programming interface which provides the content to site application . Site application updates cache and delivers the cached content in combination with the accessed content to web layer which delivers browsable content to the user.

Computer system includes processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. and static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. which communicate with each other via bus .

Computer system may further include video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . Computer system also includes alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard cursor control device e.g. a mouse disk drive unit signal generation device e.g. a speaker and network interface device .

Disk drive unit includes computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein and causing a processor such as processor to carry out those functions when executed. Software may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processor during execution thereof by computer system main memory and processor also constituting computer readable media. Software may further be transmitted or received over network via network interface device .

While computer readable medium is shown in an embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description of the technology. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The functions of the embodiment can be described as modules of computer executable instructions recorded on tangible media. The modules can be segregated in various manners over various devices.

The description of various embodiments can be applied to any type of content such as multimedia content including video content to be downloaded or streamed.

It should be understood that processes and techniques described herein are not inherently related to any particular apparatus and may be implemented by any suitable combination of components. Further various types of general purpose devices may be used in accordance with the teachings described herein. It may also prove advantageous to construct specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein. The present description of technology has been described in relation to particular examples which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different combinations of hardware software and firmware will be suitable for practicing the present description of the technology.

The one or more of the various embodiments described is achieved by manipulating data structures and transforming the data from one form useable by a computer for one purpose to another form useable by a computer for another purpose.

Other implementations of technology will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the various embodiments disclosed herein. Various aspects and or components of the described embodiments may be used singly or in any combination. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as embodiments of the technology with a true scope and spirit of the invention s being indicated by the following claims.

