---

title: Methods and systems for providing deployment architectures in cloud computing environments
abstract: A decision system for providing customized deployment architectures to users of a cloud computing environment. The decision system can identify one or more parameters for analyzing applications and processes running in a cloud, monitor the applications and processes executed in the cloud, and collect information such as usage of cloud resources, number and type of computing processes instantiated, software programs utilized by the computing processes. The decision system can then generate customized deployment architectures based on the collected information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255529&OS=08255529&RS=08255529
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08255529
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100226
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes etc. Due to the user s requirements and usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud and may be utilizing multiple independent clouds to support the cloud processes. As such the user may have difficulty determining an optimal deployment architecture in the cloud as the applications and or processes are instantiated or terminated over time. Additionally the user may have difficulty tracking the applications and or processes utilized by the cloud processes. For example as the applications and or processes run in the clouds the cloud processes may spawn new cloud processes. As such the initial deployment architecture hosting the user s applications and or processes may no longer be optimal for or even capable of supporting the user s applications and or processes.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for independently monitoring cloud computing environments. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a decision system can monitor applications and or processes running in a cloud computing environment analyze data associated with the running applications and or processes and provide customized deployment architectures.

According to embodiments a decision system can be configured to provide recommendations suggestions alternatives and options for customized deployment architectures to users of a cloud computing environment. In particular the decision system can be configured to identify one or more parameters for analyzing applications running in at least one cloud. The parameters can be provided by a user associated with the applications determined by the decision system retrieved as default parameters or retrieved from a computer readable storage medium. Once identified the decision system can be configured to monitor the applications executed in the cloud and associated with the user and or computing processes instantiated for the applications. The decision system can be configured to monitor the applications and or computing processes and collect information such as usage of cloud resources number and type of computing processes instantiated software programs utilized by the computing processes and the like.

According to embodiments once the information is collected the decision system can be configured to record the collected information in association with the user or the applications and or processes. The collected information can be recorded in a format defined using a data definition accessible to other computing resources in the cloud. Likewise the decision system can be configured to provide reports to the user describing the information collected about the applications executed and or processes instantiated in the cloud.

According to embodiments the decision system can be configured to analyze the recorded data to generate one or more customized deployment architecture. In particular the decision system can be configured to analyze the recorded data based on rules for customizing deployment architectures in the cloud a configuration data of a first deployment architecture in which the user s applications and or processes generated the recorded data and or a software license requirement associated with the user s applications. The decision system can be configured to generate one or more customized deployment architectures within the cloud or other clouds in the cloud computing environment based on the analysis of the recorded data. Once generated the decision system can present a selection of the customized deployment architectures to the user and or deploy resources in the cloud computing environment for running the user s applications based on one of the customized deployment architectures.

By generating customized deployment architectures the decision system can enable the user to track computing processes instantiated in clouds without devoting time and manpower to track the user s applications and or processes. As such the user can ensure that computing processes in the cloud are instantiated and running properly and efficiently. Likewise by generating and providing customized deployment architectures the decision system can allow the user to choose an optimal deployment architecture without constantly monitoring the clouds.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other number of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments one or more users and can utilize one or more of the clouds and to support computing processes of the user and . For example the user can utilize the cloud to support computing processes and can utilize cloud to supporting computing processes . The computing processes and can be any type of computing processes such as virtual machines software appliances software programs e.g. OS applications and the like etc. The users and can be any type of entity such as individual users corporations companies universities and the like that utilizes the clouds and to support computing processes. While will be described with reference to user one skilled in the art will realize that the processes and methods can be applied to any of the users and or any other users. Additionally while illustrates users and one skilled in the art will realize that methods and processes can apply to any number of users.

In embodiments the clouds and can be any type of cloud computing environments such as the cloud computing environments described above in . As described above the clouds and can include any number of computing systems to support the computing processes in the cloud. The computing systems can be any type of computing systems capable of supporting computing processes such as servers laptops desktops and the like. The computing systems can include a number of hardware resources which are used to support the computing processes e.g. virtual machines software appliances processes and the like in the clouds and such as processors memory network hardware and bandwidth storage devices etc. Additionally the clouds and can include a cloud management system and respectively. The cloud management systems and can be supported by the computing resources of the clouds and respectively.

In embodiments the cloud and or can be operated and controlled by any number of entities. For example the cloud and or the cloud can be owned and or operated by a cloud vendor such as Amazon Inc. in order to provide the services of the cloud and or the cloud to subscribers and customers. Likewise for example the cloud and or the cloud can be owned and or operated by one or more of the users and and the resources of the cloud and or the cloud can be used by the entity internally to support various computing processes. As such in either case the cloud and the cloud can be configured to include hardware described above and software resources to support computing processes. For example if the cloud and or the cloud is operated by a cloud vendor the software resources can include operating systems such as a distribution of Linux provided by Red Hat Corporation and various software programs requested or typically desired by subscribers such as middleware applications web hosting applications electronic mail email applications and the like. Likewise for example if the cloud and or the cloud is operated by an entity for internal use the software resources can include software resources required to support the specific internal uses. For instance the cloud can be utilized by a corporation to perform simulations on a product and the software resources can include operating systems and application programs to run the simulations.

In embodiments the one or more networks can be or include the Internet or other public or private networks. The one or more or more networks can be or include wired wireless optical and other network connections. One skilled in the art will realize that the one or more networks can be any type of network utilizing any type of communication protocol to connect the computing systems.

In embodiments due to the dynamics of the computing processes and the user can desire to actively monitor the computing processes and . For instance the user can desire to monitor the computing processes and to ensure that the appropriate computing processes are running and functioning properly. Likewise the user can desire to monitor the computing processes and to determine the usage of the resources of the clouds and for billing and other purposes. Additionally the computing processes and can spawn new computing processes in the clouds and which the user can desire to monitor.

In embodiments the decision system can be configured to monitor the clouds and for the one or more users and . In particular the decision system can be configured to monitor the computing process associated with the users and and supported by the clouds and . The decision system can be configured to subscribe the users and to the monitoring services provided by the decision system . Once subscribed the decision system can be configured to receive access information from the users and . The decision system can be configured to utilize the access information to access and communicate with the clouds and in order to monitor the computing processes supported by the clouds and and to collect information about the computing processes. Additionally the decision system can be configured to report any information collected while monitoring the users and .

In embodiments the decision system can be operated by an entity that provides the monitoring services to the users and . The monitoring services can be provided to the users and for a fee. The decision system can be supported by one or more computing systems such as servers laptops desktops and the like. The decision system can include conventional components of a computing system such as such as processors memory network interfaces storage devices etc.

In embodiments to monitor the computing processes and the decision system can be configured to include a monitoring module . The monitoring module can be configured to cooperate and communicate with the users and to subscribe the user and to the monitoring services and to report any gathered information to the users and . The monitoring module can be configured to monitor one or more aspects of the running processes based on one or more predefined parameters or a set of parameters defined by the user . The parameters can include for example processor utilization data network bandwidth utilization data or storage utilization data. Likewise the monitoring module can be configured to cooperate and communicate with the clouds and to monitor computing processes supported by the cloud and . The monitoring module can be implemented as a software program that is configured to execute on the decision system . Likewise the monitoring module can be implemented as a portion of other software programs configured to execute on the decision system . In either case the monitoring module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to perform the processes described below. In any implementation the monitoring module can be written in any type of conventional programming language such as C C JAVA Perl and the like. Additionally the monitoring module can be stored in computer readable storage devices or media CD DVD hard drive portable storage memory etc. whether local to the decision system or remotely located.

In embodiments once the user has subscribed the monitoring module can be configured to generate and maintain a set of utilization data . Each utilization data in the set can be configured to store an identification of the running processes such as computing processes and the user associated with the running processes and any information collected during the monitoring of the computing processes and . The monitoring module can maintain the set of utilization data in a repository such as a database. The repository can be stored in computer readable storage devices or media CD DVD hard drive portable storage memory etc. whether local to the decision system or remotely located.

In embodiments once the user is subscribed the monitoring module can be configured to communicate with the clouds and to monitor the computing processes and . For example the monitoring module can be configured to retrieve the utilization data associated with the user and or the computing processes and associated with the user . To retrieve the utilization data the monitoring module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to search the set of utilization data and to retrieve the utilization data and the access information for the user . For instance the monitoring module can be configured to include the necessary queries and commands to communicate with and retrieve information from the repository .

The monitoring module can be configured to monitor the computing processes and and collect information such as usage of cloud resources by the computing processes and details of the computing processes and and the like. For example for usage of the cloud resources the monitoring module can be configured to collect information such as type and number of hardware resources of the clouds and utilized by the computing processes and amount of processing cycles utilized amount of network bandwidth utilized amount of storage space utilized amount of memory utilized etc. the type and number of software resources of the clouds and utilized by the computing processes and the duration the hardware and software resources are utilized the current fees for using the clouds and and the like. Additionally for example the monitoring module can be configured to collect information about details of the computing processes and themselves such as number and type of the computing processes and instantiated start time and duration of the computing processes and software programs utilized by the computing processes and and the like.

In embodiments in order to monitor and collect information about the computing processes and the monitoring module can be configured to communicate with the cloud management systems and of the clouds and respectively. For example the monitoring module can be configured to communicate with the cloud management systems and in order to collect information about the usage of the clouds and . Likewise the monitoring module can be configured to communicate with the computing processes and to collect information about the details of the computing processes and . For example the monitoring module can be configured to communicate with virtual machine monitors supporting virtual machines with the virtual machines directly with software appliances with the software programs and the like.

In embodiments to communicate with the clouds and the monitoring module can be configured to establish a connection with the cloud and via the network . In particular the monitoring module can be configured to establish a connection with the cloud management systems and and or a connection to the computing processes and . To achieve this the monitoring module can be configured to include the necessary logic instructions commands and protocols to communicate with the cloud management systems and and or a connection to the computing processes and via network . For example the monitoring module can be configured to establish a connection using network protocols such as Internet protocol IP user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP electronic mail email protocols or any other type of known or proprietary network protocol.

In embodiments the monitoring module can be configured to monitor the computing processes and periodically for a specified duration and or upon the occurrence of any events. For example the monitoring module can be configured to monitor the computing processes and upon the subscription of the user and periodically every hour once a day etc. while the user is subscribed.

In embodiments once information about the computing processes and is collected the monitoring module can be configured to store the collected information in the utilization data associated with the user . As such the monitoring module can be configured to classify the collected information and store the information in the utilization data . To achieve this the monitoring module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to sort and classify the collected information and store the sorted and classified information in the utilization data .

In embodiments when the information is collected the monitoring module can be configured to generate reports to provide the collected information to the user . The monitoring module can be configured to generate the report in any format to display the collected information to the user . To achieve this the monitoring module can include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to retrieve the collected information from the utilization data record and organize the collected information into the reports.

In embodiments the monitoring module can be configured to generate and provide the reports to the user upon the occurrence of any number of events. For example the monitoring module can be configured to provide the reports upon request of the user and or periodically. The monitoring module can be configured to receive the request for the reports via an interface . Likewise the monitoring module can be configured to provide the reports via the interface . Additionally the monitoring module can provide the reports to the user via the network utilizing any type of network protocol such as Internet protocol IP user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP electronic mail email protocols or any other type of known or proprietary network protocol.

In embodiments the decision system can be configured to utilize the information collected during the monitoring to provide other services to the user and . In particular the decision system can be configured to verify that the software programs utilized by the computing processes and instantiated in the clouds and comply with software license requirements. For example as the computing processes and run the computing processes and can change over time. For instance the computing processes and can spawn new computing processes which can utilize new instances of software programs.

In embodiments to generate customized deployment architectures the decision system can be configured to include a customization module . The customization module can be implemented as a software program that is configured to execute on the decision system . Likewise the customization module can be implemented as a portion of other software programs such as monitoring module configured to execute on the decision system . In either case the customization module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to perform the processes described below. In any implementation the customization module can be written in any type of conventional programming language such as C C JAVA Perl and the like. Additionally the customization module can be stored in computer readable storage devices or media CD DVD hard drive portable storage memory etc. whether local to the decision system or remotely located.

In embodiments the customization module can be configured to generate and to maintain a set of deployment rules . The set of deployment rules can be configured to store rules or best practices for deploying resources in computing cloud environment such as the clouds and . The set of deployment rules can be configured to include requirements for software programs provided by the owners and operators of the clouds and . The set of deployment rules can also be configured to include resources available in the clouds and . Likewise the set of deployment rules can be configured to include requirements or preferences for software programs provided by software vendors which can be software vendors independent of the decision system and the clouds and such as independent software vendors ISVs .

In embodiments the set of deployment rules can be configured in any format and can include any information that provides the necessary logic such as algorithms and or heuristics for generating customized deployment architectures based on the information collected during the monitoring of the computing processes and . For example the set of deployment rules can include any number rules based on the resource utilization of running processes and . For instance a rule can specify that if the an application s processor utilization over the course of a period of time is less than ten percent then the application is an excellent candidate for virtualization. Another rule can specify that if an application has a high network bandwidth requirement then the application is an excellent candidate to be run on a public cloud. The customization module can be configured to store the set of deployment rules in the repository .

While shows the decision system as maintaining a set of deployment rules one skilled in the art will realize that the decision system can maintain multiple sets of deployment rules. Additionally while describes the decision system accessing the set of deployment rules one skilled in the art will realize that the decision system can be configured to allow other systems to access the set of deployment rules for example by providing an API to the set of deployment rules .

Processor also communicates with the monitoring module and the customization module to execute control logic and allow for monitoring computing processes as described above and below. Other configurations of the decision system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

While illustrates the decision system as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software the decision system can include multiple systems operating in cooperation. The monitoring module and the customization module can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the decision system as illustrated or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise the monitoring module and the customization module can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the monitoring module and the customization module can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language. When implemented as a software application or program code the monitoring module and the customization module can be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as storage accessible by the decision system . Likewise during execution a copy of the monitoring module and the customization module can be stored in the memory .

In embodiments the parameters can be provided by a user associated with the applications. Alternatively or in addition the decision system can dynamically determine a set of parameters based on a configuration of the computing environment the applications the user associated with the applications etc. The decision system can also retrieve default or predefined set of parameters e.g. data definition as shown in from a computer readable storage medium. For example the decision system can retrieve predefined parameters from a repository e.g. repository or communicate with cloud management systems e.g. cloud management systems and or software vendors e.g. software vendors or other sources e.g. the Internet to retrieve predefined parameters. The parameters can include for example a configuration of a current deployment architecture e.g. a number of machines a time duration a number of time intervals a processor utilization a network traffic level a storage utilization a software license information. One skilled in the art will realize that the other parameters or types of parameters can be used.

In the decision system can monitor the applications and or computing processes as they run in a current deployment architecture in the cloud computing environment. The decision system can monitor the applications and or computing processes for a duration of time or indefinitely until the occurrence of an event. In the decision system can record in real time or on a periodic basis resource utilization data and or other parameter data associated with the applications and or computing processes in a computer readable storage medium e.g. utilization data set in repository .

In the decision system can retrieve rules algorithms and or heuristics for generating deployment options based on the parameters. The decision system can retrieve the rules from a computer readable storage medium e.g. deployment rule set in repository .

In the decision system can generate one or more customized deployment architectures by using the deployment rules to evaluate the resource utilization data and or other parameter data associated with the applications and or computing processes. For instance if the processor utilization of the applications and or computing processes over a specified duration of time is less than ten percent then the decision system can recommend that the applications and or computing processes be run on virtual machines instantiated in the cloud computing environment. For another instance if the applications and or computing processes have a high network bandwidth requirement then the decision system can recommend that the applications and or computing processes be run on a public cloud in the cloud computing environment. The process can end after but the process can return to any point and repeat.

Certain embodiments may be performed as a computer application or program. The computer program may exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example the computer program can exist as software program s comprised of program instructions in source code object code executable code or other formats firmware program s or hardware description language HDL files. Any of the above can be embodied on a computer readable medium which include computer readable storage devices and media and signals in compressed or uncompressed form. Exemplary computer readable storage devices and media include conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM and magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Exemplary computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not are signals that a computer system hosting or running the present teachings can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of executable software program s of the computer program on a CD ROM or via Internet download. In a sense the Internet itself as an abstract entity is a computer readable medium. The same is true of computer networks in general.

While the aspects have been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. As used herein the term one or more of with respect to a listing of items such as for example A and B means A alone B alone or A and B. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

