---

title: Ionic-modulated dopant profile control in nanoscale switching devices
abstract: A nanoscale switching device is provided, comprising: a first electrode of a nanoscale width; a second electrode of a nanoscale width; an active region disposed between the first and second electrodes, the active region having at least one non-conducting layer comprising an electronically semiconducting or nominally insulating and a weak ionic conductor switching material capable of carrying a species of dopants and transporting the dopants under an electric field; and a source layer interposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and comprising a highly reactive and highly mobile ionic species that reacts with a component in the switching material to create dopants that are capable of drifting through the non-conducting layer under an electric field, thereby controlling dopant profile by ionic modulation. A crossbar array comprising a plurality of the nanoscale switching devices is also provided, along with a process for making at least one nanoscale switching device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207519&OS=08207519&RS=08207519
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08207519
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The continuous trend in the development of electronic devices has been to minimize the sizes of the devices. While the current generation of commercial microelectronics are based on sub micron design rules significant research and development efforts are directed towards exploring devices on the nano scale with the dimensions of the devices often measured in nanometers or tens of nanometers. Besides the significant reduction of individual device size and much higher packing density compared to microscale devices nanoscale devices may also provide new functionalities due to physical phenomena on the nanoscale that are not observed on the microscale.

For instance electronic switching in nanoscale devices using titanium oxide as the switching material has recently been reported. The resistive switching behavior of such a device has been linked to the memristor circuit element theory originally predicted in 1971 by L. O. Chua. The discovery of the memristive behavior in the nanoscale switch has generated significant interest and there are substantial on going research efforts to further develop such nanoscale switches and to implement them in various applications. One of the many important potential applications is to use such a switching device as a memory unit to store digital data.

The devices recently reported using titanium oxide and other metal oxides typically have involved two oxide phases TiOand an oxygen deficient phase TiO . The two oxide phases or one oxide phase TiO bounded by two oxide phases TiO are contacted by metal electrodes typically Pt Ru W or other suitable metals.

One major issue in developing memristive nanoscale switching devices is that devices based on metal oxides as the switching material always required an electroforming process before they can be used for normal switching cycles. The electroforming process involves the one time application of a relative high voltage or current to produce a significant change of the electronic conductivity of the device. Only after the forming can the device be operated as a tunable resistance switch that can go through repeated ON OFF cycles. The electro forming process is not a very well controlled process and is potentially destructive as the conductivity change is very sudden and the voltage at which the change occurs varies greatly from device to device. A greater problem however is that the formed metal oxide switching devices show a wide variance of operational properties such as the voltage required for switching the device ON or OFF or to a selected resistance value and the variations appear to depend on the details of electroforming. The wide variance in operational properties makes it difficult to use the switching devices in applications such as computing circuits. The lack of device repeatability can be a major barrier for the technological implementation of the nanoscale switching devices.

Reference is made now in detail to specific embodiments which illustrates the best mode presently contemplated by the inventors for practicing the invention. Alternative embodiments are also briefly described as applicable.

The switching device includes a bottom electrode and a top electrode and an active region disposed between the two electrodes. Each of the bottom and top electrodes and is formed of a conducting material and has a width and a thickness on the nanoscale. As used hereinafter the term nanoscale means the object has one or more dimensions smaller than one micrometer. In this regard each of the electrodes may be in the form of a nanowire. Generally the active region contains a switching material that is capable of carrying a selected species of dopants such that the dopants can drift through the switching material under a sufficiently strong electric field. The drifting of the dopants results in a redistribution of dopants in the active region which is responsible for switching behavior of the device as will be described in greater detail below.

The present invention is directed to the construction of the active region of a nanoscale switching device in such a way that the device does not require electroforming. As mentioned earlier prior to the present invention nanoscale switching devices using a metal oxide switching material appeared to always require an initial irreversible electroforming step to put the devices in a state capable of normal switching operations. The electroforming process is typically done by applying a voltage sweep to a relatively high voltage such as from 0 V up to 20 V for negative forming or 0 V to 10 V for positive forming. The sweep range is set such that device is electroformed before reaching the maximum sweep voltage by exhibiting a sudden jump to a higher current and lower voltage in the I V curve. The electroforming operation is difficult to control due to the suddenness of the conductivity change. Moreover the formed devices exhibit a wide variance of operational properties depending on the details of the electroforming.

In connection with the present invention it has been recognized by the inventors that the electroforming step may be related to a reduction process of the metal oxide switching material. It is believed that the reduction creates oxygen vacancies which then drift through the switching material under the high electric field and the drifting may be enhanced by the electrical heating caused by the electroforming voltage and current. The oxygen vacancies drift towards the cathode the negative electrode and as a result localized conducting channels due to a high concentration of oxygen vacancies are formed within the metal oxide switching material. The formation of such localized conducting channels through the bulk switching material is believed to account for the sudden and drastic reduction of the electrical conductivity of the device. It is also believed that after the electroforming process the ON OFF switching behavior is concentrated mainly at the interface region of the switching material and one or both of the electrodes.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the need for the electroforming operation that creates localized conducting channels within the switching material is effectively eliminated by employing a very thin layer of a highly reactive and highly mobile material. For example ionic lithium Li is highly reactive and highly mobile. With application of voltage it is possible to drive more Li through a device such as a memristor. In the case of a memristor comprising a transition metal oxide such as TiO as the active region Li reacts with oxygen in the lattice to create vacancies thereby providing a method of engineering vacancies in memristive devices.

The non conducting layer comprises an electronically semiconducting or nominally insulating and a weak ionic conductor. An example of such a material is titanium dioxide TiO . The non conducting layer may be thicker than the source layer but its thickness is not critical. For example the thickness of the non conducting layer may range from 10 nm to 150 nm in some embodiments.

The nanoscale switching device can be switched between ON and OFF states by controlling the concentration and distribution of the dopants in the non conducting layer . When a DC switching voltage from a voltage source is applied across the top and bottom electrodes and an electric field is created across the active region . This electric field if of a sufficient strength and proper polarity may drive the Li from the source layer into the non conducting layer and cause the dopants to drift through the non conducting material in the non conducting layer towards the top electrode thereby turning the device into an ON state. This state is depicted in .

If the polarity of the electric field is reversed the dopants may drift in an opposite direction across the non conducting layer and away from the top electrode thereby turning the device into an OFF state. In this way the switching is reversible and may be repeated. Due to the relatively large electric field needed to cause dopant drifting after the switching voltage is removed the locations of the dopants remain stable in the switching material. This state is depicted in .

The state of the switching device may be read by applying a read voltage to the top and bottom electrodes and to sense the resistance across these two electrodes. The read voltage is typically much lower than the threshold voltage required to cause drifting of the ionic dopants between the top and bottom electrodes so that the read operation does not alter the ON OFF state of the switching device.

By way of example as shown in the non conducting material may be TiOand the source material may be Li. In this case Li reacts with oxygen in the lattice to create oxygen vacancies V thereby providing a method of engineering vacancies in memristive devices. More particularly the reaction of Li with oxygen in the lattice to create oxygen vacancies also known as dopants which results in the formation of region of TiO where x may be a number much smaller than 1. The repeatable generation of TiOand return to TiOenables the overall resistance of the switching device to be reversibly altered. It is noted that the lithium ions themselves may also diffuse as interstitials.

The switching behavior described above may be based on different mechanisms. In one mechanism the switching behavior may be an interface phenomenon. Initially with a low dopant level in the non conducting material the interface of the non conducting material and the top electrode may behave like a Schottky barrier with an electronic barrier that is difficult for electrons to tunnel through. As a result the device has a relatively high resistance. When a switching voltage to turn the device ON is applied the dopants drift towards the top electrode . The increased concentration of dopants in the electrode interface region changes its electrical property from one like a Schottky barrier to one more like an ohmic contact with a significantly reduced electronic barrier height or width. As a result electrons can tunnel through the interface much more easily and this may account for the significantly reduced overall resistance of the switching device. On the other hand the interface between the bottom electrode and the Li layer remains essentially ohmic.

In another mechanism the reduction of resistance may be a bulk property of the switching material in the switching layer. An increase of the dopant level in the switching material causes the resistance across the switching material to fall and this may account for the decrease of the overall resistance of the device between the top and bottom electrodes. It is also possible that the resistance change is the result of a combination of both the bulk and interface mechanisms. Even though there may be different mechanisms for explaining the switching behavior it should be noted that the present invention does not rely on or depend on any particular mechanism for validation and the scope of the invention is not restricted by which switching mechanism is actually at work.

The Li layer between the bottom electrode and the non conducting layer may be formed by a number of processes including but not limited to ion implantation electrochemical injection atomic layer deposition ALD sputtering and organometallic deposition among others. The bottom electrode may or may not be formed on a substrate . If the substrate is employed it may comprise any common insulating dielectric materials such as silica or alumina.

The electrodes may comprise any of the common electrode materials such as Pt Ru W Cu Al Si or any combination thereof etc. and may be the same or different. The thickness of the electrodes is that commonly employed in the construction of memristors typically on the order of 10 to 100 nm.

While the discussion above has been directed to forming the Li layer on the bottom electrode it is just as feasible to form the Li layer on the non conducting layer and then form the top electrode on the Li layer. depicts this embodiment. Here the ohmic contact is formed at the interface between the source layer and the top electrode while the Schottky barrier is formed at the interface between the non conducting layer and the bottom electrode .

Further the Li layer may be formed intermediate the two electrodes as shown in . This could be done for example by depositing a portion of the non conducting layer then depositing the source layer and then depositing more of the non conducting layer . In this case a thin conducting layer is formed on the top surface of the bottom electrode or the bottom surface of the top electrode as shown in phantom to provide the desired ohmic contact. The interface between the non conducting layer and the other electrode forms the Schottky barrier. A metal such as Ti or a metal like material such as TiOO may be employed as the thin conducting layer . The thickness of the conducting layer is in the range of 1 to 30 nm.

The use of Li is expected to reduce switching voltages to lower values and to eliminate the need for forming the device. The presence of Li provides a mobile reducing agent in these devices.

The foregoing description is based on the use of TiOas the non conducting material and Li as the source material . However it will be appreciated that other ions such as Ag Ru Na Mg K Ca and Al meet the definitions herein of highly reactive and highly mobile. Of course devising a particular combination of non conducting material and source material may take some experimentation but such experimentation is not considered undue based on the teachings provided herein.

The electroforming issue addressed by the present invention has mainly been observed in switching devices using metal oxides specifically multi valent metal oxides such as TiO as the switching material. Nevertheless the structural configurations of the active region of the switching device in accordance with embodiments of the invention can also be applied to switching devices that use other types of switching materials. In this regard many different materials with their respective suitable dopants can be used as the switching material. TiOis one example of a multi valent metal oxide that is suitably employed in the practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. Examples of other multivalent metal oxides include but are not limited to oxides of Ti Zr and Hf alloys of these three oxides in pairs or with all three present simultaneously e.g. TiZrHfO where x y z 1 titanates zirconates and hafnates which may be represented as ABOcompounds where A is at least one divalent element and B is at least one of Ti Zr and Hf and the compounds may have the perovskite structure and alloys of these various compounds such as CaSrBaTiZrHfO where a b c 1 and x y z 1. Still further multi valent metal oxides include vanadates niobates tantalates molybdates tungstates etc.

In addition to metal oxides materials that exhibit suitable properties for memristive switching include for example sulfides carbides selenides nitrides phosphides arsenides chlorides and bromides of transition and rare earth metals. Suitable switching materials also include elemental semiconductors such as Si and Ge and compound semiconductors such as III V and II VI compound semiconductors. The III V semiconductors include for instance BN BP BSb AIP AlSb GaAs GaP GaN InN InP InAs and InSb and ternary and quaternary compounds. The II VI compound semiconductors include for instance CdSe CdS CdTe ZnSe ZnS ZnO and ternary compounds. These listings of possible switching materials are not exhaustive and do not restrict the scope of the present invention.

The dopant species used to alter the electrical properties of the switching material depends on the particular type of switching material chosen and may be cations anions or vacancies or impurities as electron donors or acceptors. For instance in the case of transition metal oxides such as TiO the dopant species may be oxygen vacancies. For GaN the dopant species may be nitride vacancies or sulfide ions. For compound semiconductors the dopants may be n type or p type impurities.

The electroforming free stable nanoscale switching device may be formed into an array for various applications. shows an example of a two dimensional array of such switching devices. The array has a first group of generally parallel nanowires running in a first direction and a second group of generally parallel nanowires running in a second direction at an angle such as 90 degrees from the first direction. The two layers of nanowires and form a two dimensional lattice which is commonly referred to as a crossbar structure with each nanowire in the first layer intersecting a plurality of the nanowires of the second layer. A two terminal switching device may be formed at each intersection of the nanowires and . The switching device has a nanowire of the second group as its top electrode and a nanowire of the first group as the bottom electrode and an active region containing a switching material between the two nanowires. In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the active region has a switching layer that is capable of normal switching cycles without the need for electroforming and may have a structure according to an embodiment such as described above with reference to and A B.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these details. While the invention has been disclosed with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover such modifications and variations as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

