---

title: Method and apparatus for delivery of content to a mobile device
abstract: An approach is provided for facilitating the delivery of content to a device through activation of an indicator executable on the device. One or more user devices are determined to receive the content from a content delivery platform using an electronic directory service. An application to provide an indicator representing the content is pushed to the device for initiating a request for the content from the device. In response to the request, a determination is made as to whether to grant the request for delivery of the content to the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838686&OS=08838686&RS=08838686
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08838686
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101103
---
In today s fast paced information driven culture the publishing and sharing of content with device users in mass is facilitated through various information dissemination and communication techniques including podcasting really simple syndication RSS feeding streaming media and the like. Typically a device user will subscribe to a content delivery service offered by a content services provider to receive the most relevant and up to date content corresponding to their preferences. While content preferences vary depending on the context or environment in which the device user is engaged it is common for organizations groups and businesses wishing to convey pertinent or sensitive content to employ a directory service for dissemination of content to specific user devices maintained by the directory.

Unfortunately while helpful for facilitating delivery of content use of a directory service typically is not sufficient to ensure proper and timely execution of content by the user. For example a device user may regularly receive podcasts from a content delivery platform to the user device but never actually play the podcasts. Still further valuable data and network resources are consumed to fulfill a content request that could have been better allocated for a user intent on executing the content e.g. listening to the podcast .

A preferred apparatus method and software for facilitating the delivery of content to a device through activation of an indicator executable on the device is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Regular and timely delivery and execution of content particularly in group settings are key factors for ensuring the effective dissemination of relevant news intelligence and other communications of critical importance. One technique for communicating and sharing content with members of a group at large is through podcasting non streamed webcast screencasting and other content execution techniques. Podcasting for example is a content execution technique where a video or audio message is made available for direct transmission to the devices of group members on a periodic basis. In particular podcasting involves the creation syndication and subsequent pushing of content as a web feed to user devices from a central server to a podcatcher active on the device. The podcatcher operable on the device for detecting web feeds accesses the pushed content through a subscription process checks for content updates and downloads any new content automatically or on a manual basis. By pushing content to the user devices through syndication it can be subsequently executed by the user device offline making it suitable for execution at anytime.

As presented herein content capable of being pushed to a device as a podcast screencast data stream etc. is any data capable of being rendered played presented and or manipulated by the device. Such content may include but is not limited to video and audio data streaming data data files object code image data contextual and semantic data textual data media data etc. Generally the content once accessed and received by a podcatcher active on a receiving device is executed with a media player audio player video player web based content aggregator or the like. Any means of enabling the delivery and execution of streamed and or non streamed content is relevant to the exemplary embodiments presented herein.

While podcasting and other content execution techniques are useful modes of communication the fact that a message is retrieved by a podcatcher or other means by a user device does not ensure that the message is actively executed e.g. listened to or viewed . Moreover transmission of audio video and or textual content to a group at the same time can consume tremendous network resources especially when large messages and or large groups are involved. As a result content providers expend these resources on messages that are never effectively listened to or viewed or otherwise experienced by the recipient. Likewise for the receiving user device internal storage is expended on the downloading of content that does not actually get played or viewed by the user. Though automated transmission and downloading of executable content messages on a periodic communication basis to one or more user devices is useful a means of triggering the execution of content in a manner that does not tax network resources is needed.

While implementations can vary the content delivery platform may feature various web management software utilities servers or a group or suite of applications and tools that enable a content services provider to seamlessly create edit review and publish electronic text audio data video data or a combination thereof. Moreover the content delivery platform allows the content to be published in syndication i.e. disseminating the content via one or more web feeds for example the latest news or forum posts . In addition the content delivery platform executes various protocols and network communication schemes that enable proper formatting and packaging of content for transmission over a communication network and ultimately to enable its execution by one or more user devices 

Generally content delivery platforms are maintained by one or more service providers that ensure the consistent updating and or generation of content. In one embodiment the services of content delivery platform can be provided as managed services by a service provider that also a telecommunications service provider of a portion or all of communication network . Alternatively the service provider can be a business entity that provides a particular service. As an example a service provider named ACMELegalContent.com maintains a content delivery platform dedicated to the provision of legal content. In this case the content is catered to various factions of the law and or areas of specialization discipline within the legal community in general i.e. case law legal news family law jurisprudence topics etc. Users interested in receiving content from this provider register with the content delivery platform through a web based subscription account activation process presented by the ACMELegalContent.com web server. The subscription account activation and registration process may include but is not limited to performance of the following user activities establishing a user profile user name contact info indicating a device type for receipt of the content selecting a preferred data format for delivery of the content e.g. audio video indicating the frequency of content delivery to the user device selecting a subscription level or pricing tier selecting specific categories and or subcategories of legal content e.g. intellectual property news pharmaceuticals appellate law legal careers ecommerce . Ultimately the user preferences are defined by the user directly and or by an overriding administrator on said user s behalf e.g. an administrator for the organization or group to which the user belongs .

Once the subscription is established the content delivery platform can provide different types of content to different users accordingly based on the aforementioned preferences requirements and needs. For example a user of a first user device may receive content per the user s subscription agreement while a second user of user device receives content . In other instances such as when the users share a common subscription agreement mutual context such as a like organization group or business association or other affiliations user devices receive the same content. By way of example a law firm may arrange for the transmission of regular legal content to be provided by ACMELegalContent.com to all employees who were issued firm provided user devices i.e. user devices 

While the example presented above depicts the content delivery platform as an external or third party resource the exemplary embodiments presented herein also apply to internally coordinated content delivery platforms . Internally coordinated content delivery platforms may be facilitated within a private network such as that maintained by a business organization or other group having a computing presence over the communication network . The content may be generated internally such as by a group member the communication department or an affiliated source and subsequently transmitted via a content delivery platform implemented within the enterprise network infrastructure e.g. a mobile device enterprise server system . In this example the means by which users arrange for the transmission of content to their respective user devices be it internally or externally sourced content is managed by or in conjunction with a network administrator.

In one embodiment web based interaction with the content delivery platform for enabling the user or network administrator to specify their settings and features is performed by way of a user interface module .

Platform also includes a content retrieval module that allows a requesting user device to retrieve select content from data storage in accordance with their established subscription and or preferences. In addition the content retrieval module also provides intelligence for determining whether or not content requests as received from various devices are to be granted. The content retrieval module additionally operates in connection with a content syndication module that publishes and or feeds select content according to a syndication arrangement. In particular the content syndication module manages the various channels sites and web feeds through which content is to be disseminated. In addition the content syndication module manages the release of content or content updates in accordance with a syndication schedule. For example the content syndication module can restrict the pushing out of content for a lower tier subscriber based on a more limited syndication schedule while unrestricting the pushing out of content for higher tier subscribers.

Operable in connection with the content syndication module is push module which pushes content from the content delivery platform via a communication interface to one or more subscribing user devices configured over the network . The content is pushed out in response to the determined syndication schedule of the content syndication module . The push module also facilitates proper packaging and arranging of content for delivery to receiving user devices in accordance with the defined device preferences e.g. codec settings preferred data formats . Moreover the push module can transmit an application to the user devices in response to the availability of content per the content syndication module . For example when a content update is made available for syndication the push module selects an application that is capable of execution by the user device for providing an indicator e.g. an icon representative of the content to be pushed to the user device . Of particular note the application features instructions for rendering an indicator to the interface of the user device in which the execution is a precursor to the pushing of content to the device . One or more applications for providing indicators representative of content are maintained in data storage for representing varying types of content i.e. an indicator for indicating the first time content has been published versus an update to prior downloaded content.

Operating in connection with the content delivery platform of system in accordance with various embodiments is a directory service . The directory service is employed by the content delivery platform to properly direct content to the one or more user devices . To facilitate interaction with the directory service the content delivery platform executes a directory service access module . The directory service access module provides communication between the directory service and the push module for controlling content delivery. The directory service access module also ensures that content is directed by way of the directory service to subscribing users on the predetermined schedule maintained by the content syndication module i.e. such as during off peak hours of operation.

The directory service is a network service that identifies all resources configured to a given network and makes them accessible to users and applications i.e. accessible to the content delivery platform . For example user devices are considered resources within the directory service of an organization each of the user devices being identified by the directory service in accord with a naming convention corresponding to the topology of the directory service e.g. database topology thereof . While user devices represent a specific type of resource others maintained by the directory service may include but are not limited to e mail addresses phone numbers employee or group identifiers specific documents and data files computers and peripheral devices such as printers.

Generally the directory service provides for the use of protocols that readily enable access to select information by users associated with the directory service or third party entities such as the content delivery platform as permitted by an organization . Exemplary directory service topologies and or protocols may include but is not limited to Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP which can be used for e mail addresses Domain Name System DNS as used frequently for organizing and naming computers services and other resources connected to the communication network or a private network or Netware Directory Service NDS . As an application protocol LDAP can support directory services over TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol and is more detailed in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comment RFC 4510 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The exemplary directory service as presented herein is not limited to any one particular approach.

In one embodiment the directory service is made available to the content delivery platform at the discretion of an administrator of directory service to enable the coordinated direction of content transmissions to select users and or user devices. For example a network administrator of a corporation that maintains one or more servers for housing the directory service may enable the appropriate security settings and access configurations required for the content delivery platform to transmit a podcast to select computers or user devices configured to the internal network. Of particular note the directory service and content delivery platform may operate in tandem to maintain a record of which content has been transmitted to and or downloaded by which user device when such transmission and or downloading occurred and other pertinent details. In this way the content delivery platform avoids the transmission pushing of repeat content while staying up to date on the current content needs of the user. The above described elements of the system are communicable with one another over communication network . In system according to certain embodiments communication network may be one or more of a combination of a data network service provider network telephony network and or wireless network configured to handle various communication sessions voice communications as well as non voice communications. Communication network may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network. In the example of a telephony network communication network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

When configured for wireless communication communication network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi long term evolution LTE satellite and the like. Meanwhile when configured as a data network communication network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Additionally the communication network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that the communication network includes components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. As such network may be adapted to facilitate the content transmission and execution services of system .

While the various embodiments discussed herein pertain to the transmission of content to user devices through a directory service the principles apply to any type of user device through which data may be received or relayed. User devices may include but is not limited to mobile devices e.g. cellular phones BLUETOOTH enabled devices WiFi enable devices etc. a set top box STB a computer e.g. desktop computer laptop web appliance netbook iPad etc. and voice station. Regardless of type generally user devices are configured to communicate over the wireless communication network using voice sessions as well as other non voice sessions e.g. short messaging service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS multimedia messaging service MMS instant messaging IM etc. Also the devices may convey geographical or spatial information with a constellation of global positioning system GPS satellites such as to enable location detection by way of example. User devices may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA Blackberry pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. The specific configuration of a user device for enabling content execution is more fully detailed in .

With respect to the user device which may be a mobile phone as depicted in mobile computer or other wireless communication device includes a notification presentation module that is configured to support text based communication i.e. present and create text based notification messages. In addition the device includes a voice module configured to establish a voice based call. Such voice based calls can be traditional plain old telephone service POTS calls or packetized voice calls e.g. VoIP . These communication sessions can occur concurrently during a call. It is noted that these communication sessions can be established over a circuit switched network a packet switch network or a combination thereof. Thus communication interface can be appropriately configured depending on the transport systems and or communication network elements involved.

Still further a user interface module enables presentment of data to a graphical user interface of the user device . Various software applications operable by the user device may feature application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the user interface module for enabling graphical elements to be displayed by the device. This includes but is not limited to the application pushed to the device by the push module of the content delivery platform for presenting to the interface indicators representative of content available for download. It is noted that in some instances multiple communication interfaces may be utilized depending on the type of user device involved. Moreover the user device employs the user interface module to enable control by the user of the device of various communication features during a session. Additionally a controller module is configured to coordinate the concurrent communication sessions provided by the notification presentation module and voice module . For example the controller module generates the appropriate signals to control the communication interface for transmission over the voice channel and the messaging channel.

Also operable in connection with the user device are the content execution module and indicator application module . The content execution module enables the viewing playing and or rendering of digital content maintained in data storage as provided by the content delivery platform . Likewise the content execution module executes the appropriate instructions for decoding the received content properly including the processing of video audio codecs the performance of various compression or decompression techniques etc. Exemplary applications useful for execution as or in connection with the content execution module may include but are not limited to a digital media player an MP3 player or other audio player a video player a podcast feedback mechanism or any other application or software suited for the execution of content of various formats. Exemplary formats for video content may include but is not limited to MPEG AVI Real Video and QuickTime while exemplary audio formats aside from MP3 may include but is not limited to AAC WMA WAV and AIFF. In the case of video and or audio content the user interface module operates in connection with the content execution module and controller module for example to render video content to the graphical user interface and audio content to the internal speakers of the user device.

The indicator application module enables the receipt and execution of an application for rendering of an indicator to the graphical user interface of the user device in response to the determined availability of content for the user device . As mentioned previously the application enables presentment of an indicator to the device interface as a graphical element icon hyperlink button symbol message queue or other visual indicator which upon activation e.g. clicking selecting etc. by the user triggers the content delivery platform to push transmit the scheduled content to the requesting user. In some instances the visual indicator may be accompanied by a sound or physical indicator such as an alarm or vibration for alerting the user of the rendering of the indicator to the device interface. shows an exemplary user device that features a graphical user interface with various indicators as graphical elements in the form of icons presented thereon. In this example a desktop feature of the mobile device is presented to the display from which the user can select one or more applications to launch labeled as APP 1 through APP 5 via a soft touch screen or hard keypad invoke various device or user options view a digital clock etc. While not shown expressly the one or more applications may be represented by one or more icons that depict the particular application which upon user selection results in the execution of the application.

Likewise in accordance with the one embodiment an indicator in the form of an icon is also presented to the interface for representing the availability of new content for download from the content delivery platform . Depending on device capabilities or user preferences the indicator application module can be made to enable the icon to blink or appear disappear depending on availability of content vary between different images as an animation or avatar cause an associated sound or any other means of user alert or notification. Also the icon may also have associated therewith i.e. as metadata useful profile information for providing a description of the content in question that is to be downloaded in connection with activation of the icon. For example the user can one click press and hold mouseover or perform any other triggering action with respect to the icon based indicator thereby causing a caption containing the profile information to be displayed. Alternatively the profile information can be invoked in connection with the indicator without user invocation such as in the form of a scrolling message prompt. These and various other approaches are feasible for the exemplary embodiments herein. In the event of full selection of the icon form of indicator e.g. a double click activation from the desktop by the user a procedure is followed to render execution of the content as depicted with respect to .

In step an application is pushed by the content delivery platform to a determined recipient user device. The pushed application provides an indicator representing the content for which the user device is to receive from the content delivery platform the indicator being pushed prior to pushing of the actual content. Also as mentioned previously the application for providing said indicator may also have associated therewith profile information such as in the form of a certain schema syntax or metadata that is descriptive of the intended content to ultimately be downloaded pushed to the device.

In step the content delivery platform operating in connection with the directory service receives a request for the content from the user device to which the application was pushed. The request for delivery of the content to the user device is triggered or signaled to the content delivery platform by way of activation of the indicator pushed to the user device i.e. as described with respect to . Once the request is received in accordance with a further step a determination is then made as to whether or not to grant the request of delivery of the content to the user device .

In step of process an application to present an indicator representing media content that is available for delivery to the user device is automatically received and executed by the user device . In step the user activates the indicator as it is rendered to the device user interface to generate a request for the content. In yet another step the user device initiates transfer of the request over a wireless network to the content delivery platform to obtain the content.

With respect now to a flowchart of a process for enabling the transfer of content by a content delivery platform in response to activation of an indicator executable on a user device is shown in accordance with one embodiment. As earlier described the content delivery platform interacts with the directory service to identify and or select user devices to transmit content to over the network . As seen in process per step the directory system for providing a directory service is queried by the content delivery platform in order to obtain identifiers of one or more user devices that are scheduled to receive content . The identifiers may be specified as a domain name entry internet protocol IP Address device identifier or other attribute object or value corresponding to the topology of the directory service. In response to the query the content delivery platform receives the identifiers of the one or more user devices for which content is to be directed corresponding to step .

Having identified the appropriate recipients the content delivery platform is able to identify a specific device e.g. devices to direct content to in response to a request as initiated by way of step of . The initiated request is received by the content delivery platform the request indicating at least an identifier associated with the user device as in step . In step a determination is made by the content delivery platform as to whether the identifier indicated in the request matches any identifiers specified by the delivery service . When a match is identified the content intended specifically for the user device associated with said identifier is streamed or transferred over the data network to the requesting device as specified in step . The transfer process may be completed by way of a server side transformation as performed by the content delivery platform followed by for instance an internal database lookup for accessing the specific content associated with the device. Conversely when the identifier indicated with the request does not match the known list of identifiers indicated by the directory service the request for content is denied. This corresponds to optional step . Once the content is streamed or transferred to the user device as depicted in step the content is executed by the user device accordingly.

It is noted that the above described processes in certain exemplary embodiments provide for effective delivery and execution of content to a user device i.e. as a podcast message. Moreover actual execution of the message is performed on demand the execution being triggered automatically by user activation of an indicator that is rendered to the display of a user device resulting from an application being pushed to the device by the content delivery platform. Unlike traditional approaches to content enablement particularly for podcasts screencasts streaming media and the like the approach as presented herein provides a higher level of assurance that the content is actually played listened to or enjoyed by the user. Moreover content delivery is performed in a manner that more effectively utilizes network resources respective to those messages that are actually executed by the user.

The processes described herein for providing content to devices may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to certain embodiments the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

