---

title: Group communication sessions between session participants communicating via two or more different contact protocols within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, an access terminal (AT) obtains media intended for transmission to a communication group during a group communication session (GCS). The communication group includes a first set of ATs configured to exchange media via a primary communication protocol (PCP) mediated by an application server (AS) and a second set of ATs configured to exchanged media via a secondary communication protocol (SCP). The AT selectively transmits the obtained media in accordance with the PCP and/or the SCP to facilitate both the first and second sets of ATs to receive the media. In an embodiment, the AS sends instructions to a given AT among the first set associated with whether the given AT is responsible for extending support of the GCS to at least one of a second set of ATs via the SCP. In another embodiment, the AS itself selectively transmits media to the communication group via the SCP.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762460&OS=08762460&RS=08762460
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08762460
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100618
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 225 129 entitled GROUP COMMUNICATION SESSIONS BETWEEN SESSION PARTICIPANTS COMMUNICATING VIA TWO OR MORE DIFFERENT CONTACT PROTOCOLS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Jul. 13 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to group communication sessions between session participants communicating via two or more different contact protocols within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment an access terminal AT obtains media intended for transmission to a communication group during a group communication session. The communication group includes a first set of ATs configured to exchange media via a primary communication protocol mediated by an application server and a second set of ATs configured to exchanged media via a secondary communication protocol. The AT selectively transmits the obtained media in accordance with the primary communication protocol and or the secondary communication protocol to facilitate both the first and second sets of ATs to receive the media. In an embodiment the application server sends instructions to a given AT among the first set associated with whether the given AT is responsible for extending support of the group communication session to at least one of a second set of ATs via the secondary communication protocol. In another embodiment the application server itself selectively transmits media to the communication group via the secondary communication protocol.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data serving node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In conventional wireless communication systems group communication sessions can be arbitrated by a network of servers e.g. collectively corresponding to the application server that are distributed through the system and connected to the RAN . The subscribers to a particular group communication service e.g. a push to talk PTT service a push to transfer PTX service etc. are thereby permitted to communicate with other subscribers of the same service with messages being exchanged either through or at the control of the application server . In the case of a group audio session this means audio packets can be transmitted to the application server via the RAN from one of the subscribers and the application server can then forward the audio packets to one or more other subscribers actively participating in the group communication session. Likewise for group sessions involving other types of media e.g. text messages multimedia messages including video and or audio etc. other types of data packets can be exchanged between group members or subscribers during the session.

One of the reasons these group communication sessions are arbitrated by the application server is that the individual subscribers do not necessarily have easy access to complete membership lists for a particular group. For example individual subscribers cannot be expected to track which other subscribers are current with their membership fees which other subscribers have de registered from the group etc. Accordingly one of the responsibilities of the application server is tracking group memberships. Thus when the application server receives a request to initiate a group communication session the application server loads the current group s membership and uses this information to contact the session targets for the session.

Also the application server is typically configured to facilitate group communication sessions via a particular group communication service that is available to subscribers of the service. Conventionally the application server does not join non subscribing ATs and or subscribers that cannot currently communicate via the group communication service to the session e.g. offline subscribing ATs . In the case of non subscribing ATs these access terminals do not necessarily have the requisite permission software and or hardware to participate via the protocols used by the group communication service. For example if the group communication service is a server arbitrated group text service subscribers may have special software loaded onto their communication devices which is not necessarily available to non subscribers which precludes the non subscribers from participating in group text sessions supported by the service. In the case of offline subscribing ATs if the subscribing ATs are offline or not logged into the application server the application server may either not be aware of how to contact the offline subscribing ATs or the offline subscribing ATs will simply ignore messaging received via the protocol for the group communication service e.g. at least until the offline subscribing AT later logs into the server . In an example certain subscribing ATs may be considered to be offline if a primary communication protocol used by the application server cannot currently be supported by the subscribing ATs e.g. such as when the primary communication protocol corresponds to EV DO and the subscribing ATs are in locations where EV DO is not supported .

Accordingly it will be appreciated that conventional server arbitrated group communication sessions are typically conducted between subscribers to the associated group communication service that are currently online or logged into the application server configured to support the group communication sessions. An example of how a conventional server arbitrated communication session can be setup is described with respect to .

With respect to a given AT AT determines whether to initiate a group communication session . Assume that AT determines to initiate a group communication session in accordance with a given communication protocol or service e.g. a group text service to be arbitrated by the application server that the user of AT is an online subscriber to the service i.e. the user of AT has sufficient privileges to initiate the session and that the user of AT desires to contact a group of ATs that includes online subscribers offline subscribers and non subscribing ATs e.g. although at this point AT does not necessarily know that certain desired contacts are offline online or non subscribing .

Accordingly in AT sends a group communication session initiation request to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server . In an example if the group communication session corresponds to a group text and or group multimedia session the group communication session initiation request can be sent along with initial media to be forwarded to the other group members. Alternatively the initial media may be sent after the group communication session initiation request is sent. The application server receives the group communication session initiation request locates the current online subscribers ATs . . . N belonging to the associated group and then transmits the media to the current online subscribers as is known in the art. The application server then arbitrates the exchange of media between AT and each of ATs . . . N during the communication session .

As shown in any offline subscribers and or non subscribing ATs do not actually receive the media from AT and do not thereafter participate in the group communication session e.g. in the case of the offline subscribers a notification may eventually be received by these ATs during a subsequent log in but they will have missed their opportunity to actively participate in the session . Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to extending or expanding the types of ATs that can participate in server arbitrated group communication sessions to include ATs that cannot participate in the session via the primary service type.

In embodiments described with respect to one or more group members are responsible for forwarding or re transmitting group messages to ATs that cannot participate in the session via the primary service type primary communication protocol . The primary communication protocol generally refers to a proprietary protocol specific to the group communication service supported by the application server e.g. Yagatta . Thus in these embodiments few changes need be implemented at the application server which can exchange media between online subscribing ATs as in e.g. although notifications related to group membership such as which subscribers are offline or online can be sent to the online subscribing ATs in the embodiments below while leaving media exchanges between non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs to handset level enforcement. In embodiments described with respect to the application server is responsible for arbitrating the group communication session between both online subscribing ATs and either offline subscribing ATs or non subscribing ATs. In this case the application server communicates with the online subscribing ATs via the primary communication protocol e.g. a proprietary protocol specific to the group communication service supported by the application server such as Yagatta and communicates with the offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs via a secondary or alternate contact protocol e.g. text or SMS messaging multimedia or MMS messaging etc. . Both the handset and or server implemented embodiments thereby permit offline and or non subscribing ATs to a particular group communication service to participate in group communication sessions related to the service via alternate contact protocol s .

Accordingly in A AT sends a group communication session initiation request to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server . In an example if the group communication session corresponds to a group text and or group multimedia session the group communication session initiation request can be sent along with initial media e.g. an initial text message an initial multimedia message including video and or audio etc. to be forwarded to the other group members. The application server receives the group communication session initiation request locates the current online subscribers ATs . . . N belonging to the associated group and determines if any of the group members associated with the session request are offline or not currently logged into the application server A.

If the application server determines that each group member is currently online then the process advances directly to A and the application server transmits the media to the current online subscribers. However if the application server determines that one or more group members is offline then the application server sends an indication of which group members are currently offline to AT A and then advances to A where the application server sends the media to any online subscribing group members i.e. ATs . . . N . Alternatively AT may be provisioned with a presence feature through which AT can keep itself informed of which other subscribing ATs are currently online. In this case it will be appreciated that the decision block A and the notification of A need not be sent because AT can obtain information with regard to which subscribing ATs are offline via the presence feature.

Referring to AT receives the indication of the offline subscribing ATs and then obtains alternate contact information for i any offline subscribing ATs indicated in the message from A and or ii any non subscribing ATs. In this example the non subscribing ATs are known to AT before the session request message is sent in A and the application server need not be aware of their presence and or inclusion within the group session. In other words the user of AT can select additional contacts e.g. from an address book thereon to add to the group session in which case the alternate contact information can correspond to contact information e.g. a phone number an email address etc. stored in association with the selected additional contacts on AT e.g. alternatively the contact information need not be stored on AT but rather can be manually entered by the user of AT . Thus for the non subscribing ATs the alternate contact information can obtained from user input and or from information stored on AT in an example e.g. although this information could also be retrieved from a network server and then downloaded to AT .

With regard to the offline subscribing ATs the alternate contact information can be received along with the indication of their offline status from the application server in A. As will be appreciated this assumes that the application server maintains alternate contact information of at least some of its subscribers which is not necessarily the case in each embodiment of this invention and or for each subscriber. Alternatively the indication of the non subscribing ATs in A can be used to identify the ATs but not to indicate their alternate contact information such that AT can then obtain the alternate contact information by mapping the identified offline subscribing ATs to information stored or obtainable by AT e.g. by associating an offline subscribing AT to a corresponding phone number or email address in AT s address book etc. .

After obtaining the alternate contact information for each non subscribing AT and or each offline subscribing AT in A AT sends the media e.g. the same media that was sent to the online subscribing ATs by the application server in A to each non subscribing AT and or each offline subscribing AT that AT is attempting to include in the group communication session via one or more alternate contact protocols A. For example if the alternate contact information for a particular AT corresponds to a phone number and the media is string or textual information then the alternate contact protocol for that particular AT may correspond to a text message protocol or short message service SMS protocol. In a further example if the alternate contact information for a particular AT corresponds to a phone number and the media is more advanced e.g. an image audio video and or rich text multimedia object then the alternate contact protocol for that particular AT may correspond to a multimedia messaging service MMS protocol. In a further example if the alternate contact information for a particular AT corresponds to an email address then the alternate contact protocol for that particular AT corresponds to an email protocol e.g. which can include the media as an email attachment in a subject or body section of the email etc. . It will be appreciated that not all of the non subscribing ATs and or each offline subscribing ATs need have their alternate contact information conform to the same alternate contact protocol e.g. some of these ATs may wish to be contacted via email while other ATs may wish to be contacted via SMS messaging etc. .

After the initial media from AT is sent to each group member e.g. to each online subscribing AT in A and to each offline subscribing AT and or non subscribing AT in A AT monitors subsequent media exchanged during the communication session A. In A AT determines whether the user of AT has media to send to the group. If the user of AT does not have media to send to the group the process returns to A and AT waits to receive media from other group members and or for a request from AT to send media to the group. Otherwise if the user of AT wishes to send additional media to the group in A the process returns to A where AT sends additional media to the application server for transmission to the online subscribing ATs . . . N via the primary communication protocol and also sends media to the non subscribing ATs and or the offline subscribing ATs via the alternate contact protocol s in A. It will be appreciated that the application server need not send another indication of the offline subscribing ATs in A unless the information has changed e.g. a previously online subscribing AT is now offline a previously offline subscribing AT is now online etc. which can occur at any point during the group communication session.

Each online subscribing AT monitors media associated with the group communication session that is received over the primary communication protocol A. In A each online subscribing AT determines whether to send media to send to the group. Online subscribing ATs that determine not to send media to the group return to A and continue to monitor media associated with the group communication session. Online subscribing ATs that determine to send media to the group advance to B of . Similarly each offline subscribing AT and or non subscribing AT monitors media associated with the group communication session that is received over its respective alternate contact protocol A. In A each offline subscribing AT and or non subscribing AT determines whether to send media to send to the group. Offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs that determine not to send media to the group return to A and continue to monitor media associated with the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s . Offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs that determine to send media to the group advance to C of .

Referring to assume that one of the online subscribing ATs . . . N has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly the online subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server B via the primary communication protocol. The application server receives the media from the online subscribing AT and then transmits the media to each other online subscribing AT including AT B via the primary communication protocol. AT receives the media from B via the primary communication protocol and then determines whether one or more ATs are participating in the group communication session via one or more alternate contact protocols B. In other words if any offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs are included in the group then at least one of the group participants is participating via an alternate contact protocol. If only online subscribing ATs are participating in the group communication session the process can advance directly to B. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is present in the group. Accordingly AT re transmits the media which was received in B via the primary communication protocol to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s B.

In an example assume that the group communication session is a group text session that the online subscribing ATs are communicating via a proprietary group session protocol for the text session and that each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is participating via SMS messaging. Thus in this example the media in B is received at AT via proprietary group session protocol messaging and the media in B is sent to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT via one or more SMS messages.

After re transmitting the media in B B through B generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to assume that one of the offline subscribing ATs and or one of the non subscribing ATs has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly the offline subscribing AT or non subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which forwards the media to AT via the alternate contact protocol C. For example if the alternate contact protocol is SMS messaging then a target address for the SMS message of C corresponds to AT s own phone number. In an example the target address in C may be included as a source address for the SMS message in A of in example.

AT receives the media from C via the alternate contact protocol and then re transmits the media to the application server via the RAN over the primary communication protocol C and the application server transmits the media over the primary communication protocol to each other online subscribing AT C.

Also in C then determines whether one or more ATs other than the transmitting AT from C are participating in the group communication session via one or more alternate contact protocols C. In other words if any offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs other than the transmitting AT from C are included in the group then at least one other group participant is participating via an alternate contact protocol. If no other non subscribing ATs or offline subscribing ATs are participating in the group communication session the process can advance directly to C. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the transmitting AT from C is present in the group. Accordingly AT re transmits the media which was received in C via the alternate contact protocol from the transmitting AT to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the transmitting AT from C that is participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s C.

In an example assume that the group communication session is a group text session that the online subscribing ATs are communicating via a proprietary group session protocol for the text session and that each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is participating via SMS messaging. Thus in this example the media in C is received at AT via SMS messaging the media re transmitted in C by AT is sent via proprietary group session protocol messaging and the media re transmitted by AT in C is sent via SMS messaging.

After re transmitting the media in C C through C generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

In it will be appreciated that the session originator or AT is described as being responsible for forwarding messages between the offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs via the alternate contact protocol s and the online subscribing ATs via the primary communication protocol. However in at least one embodiment the forwarding responsibilities described above as belonging to AT can be re allocated partially or completely to one or more other online subscribing ATs once they join the group session. illustrates one particular manner of re allocating forwarding responsibilities during an active group communication session in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to assume that the process of B and or C is executing such that the application server is arbitrating group messaging among two or more online subscribing ATs i.e. AT and at least one of ATs . . . N D. Next the application server determines whether to modify the allocation of online subscribing ATs that are responsible for supporting non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs. For example assuming that AT is the sole AT responsible for forwarding media to from any offline subscribing ATs or non subscribing ATs at this point in the group session the application server may determine to modify the forwarding responsibility allocation based on a message from AT that indicates AT is overloaded and cannot handle more ATs via alternate contact protocols. Alternatively if the alternate contact protocol corresponds to SMS messaging then the application server can include a record of which subscribing ATs have unlimited SMS message plans and can attempt to re allocate the forwarding responsibilities among online subscribing ATs with unlimited SMS message plans. In another alternative embodiment the application server can simply attempt to ensure that the offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs in the group session are evenly distributed among the online subscribing ATs participating in the session. As will be appreciated this may necessitate sending a list e.g. by AT initially to the application server of the offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs that are currently being supported. In an example the application server can attempt to maintain a number of ATs being supported by any one particular online subscribing AT to be less than a given threshold number e.g. etc. .

Accordingly if the application server determines not to modify the forwarding responsibility allocation among the online subscribing ATs in D the process returns to D. Otherwise if the application server determines to modify the forwarding responsibility allocation among the online subscribing ATs in D the application server sends one or more proprietary re allocation message to AT e.g. to inform AT that AT can drop forward message support of at least one of its currently supported ATs and also sends one or more proprietary re allocation message to one or more of ATs . . . N e.g. to inform at least one of ATs . . . N to start forwarding messages to from one of the non subscribing ATs and or one of the offline subscribing ATs via an alternate contact protocol . As will be appreciated an allocation message instructing an AT to support a forwarding between a new AT will also be sent the alternate contact information e.g. phone number for the new AT for supporting the alternate contact protocol e.g. SMS messaging to from the new AT.

In assume that the allocation messages of D function to de allocate all forwarding responsibilities from AT and to re allocate all of AT s forwarding responsibilities to AT . In this case when a user of AT determines to send media to the group in D AT sends media to the RAN which forwards the media to the application server via the primary communication protocol D. The application server then transmits the media to the online subscribing ATs . . . N D via the primary communication protocol. AT receives this media and re transmits the media via the alternate contact protocol s to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT participating in the group session D e.g. which previously would have been handled by AT . While happens to illustrate a complete re allocation of forwarding responsibilities from AT to AT it will be appreciated that other embodiments can re allocate less than all of the ATs being supported by AT to other ATs. Also it will be appreciated that other embodiments can distribute forwarding responsibilities among more than two online subscribing ATs.

Above are described such that the originating AT AT designates the actual targets for the group communication session. In at least one embodiment however one or more target ATs of the group can bring in another AT into the group and can support the new AT s by forwarding messaging between the new AT s via an appropriate alternate contact protocol. Thus while not shown explicitly above the session originator need not be in total control of the ATs that eventually join the session in at least one embodiment and the session can be extended to other targets for alternate contact protocols. For example assume that AT is an online subscribing AT that joins the session initiated by AT . AT wants AT X to join the session and AT X is neither a subscribing AT nor a non subscribing AT being supported by AT . In this case AT can forward messages to from AT X without explicit permission or authorization from AT in at least one embodiment.

Also are described such that any media transmitted to the group via the primary communication protocol is re transmitted by one or more online subscribing ATs to each non subscribing AT and or to each offline subscribing AT via the appropriate alternate contact protocol. In an optional throttling implementation is discussed by which the media re transmissions over the alternate contact protocol can be selectively throttled e.g. delayed ignored truncated etc. to reduce processing overhead at the re transmitting AT and or system load.

Accordingly in any of assume that an online subscribing AT either i receives media via the primary communication protocol that is to be transmitted to one or more non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs via associated alternate contact protocol s or ii receives media via an alternate contact protocol from one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT that is to be transmitted to at least one other non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT via alternate contact protocol s E. Next the online subscribing AT determines whether to throttle the received media E. For example the online subscribing AT can determine to throttle the media due to processing overload system interference if the AT sending the media to be re transmitted is sending too much media e.g. more than 5 SMS messages in a minute etc. etc.

If the online subscribing AT determines not to throttle the media in E the process returns to B of C of or D of and the media is re transmitted via the alternate contact protocol s . Otherwise if the online subscribing AT determines to throttle the media in E then the media is throttled in E. In an example throttling the media may correspond to reducing the rate at which the online subscribing AT re transmits the media i.e. delaying the re transmission of at least some of the media . In another example throttling the media may correspond to eliminating some but not all of the data portion of the media and re transmitting a reduced data packet that omits part of the media. In an example throttling the media may correspond to dropping the media and performing no re transmission function of the media. In another example throttling the media may correspond to delaying one or more packets bound for the same destination AT s and then bundled multiple packets together to reduce the total number of messaging to from the destination AT s . After throttling the media the process returns back to C and or D and the throttled media is then either selectively re transmitted or is not re transmitted in the throttled or reduced manner.

In A instead of simply sending the media to the group via the primary communication protocol and alternate contact protocol s as in AT configures a control message that includes alternate contact information for each group member including all subscribing ATs for the group e.g. both offline and online as well as for each non subscribing AT that AT is trying to communicate with. This assumes that AT either already has the alternate contact information for the group members e.g. in an address book or contact list or else obtains the alternate contact information e.g. from a network storage entity from user input .

In A AT sends the control message via alternate contact protocol s e.g. SMS messaging MMS messaging email etc. to each group member AT is trying to reach inclusive of subscribing ATs belonging to the group as well as non subscribing ATs belonging to the group. After sending the control message in A A through A generally correspond to A through A of with the following exceptions. In A of unlike A of the application server sends the indication of which group members are currently offline each online subscribing AT and not merely AT . As noted above with respect to A the online subscribing ATs may be provisioned with a presence feature through which the respective ATs can keep themselves informed of which other subscribing ATs are currently online. In this case it will be appreciated that the decision block A and the notification of A need not be sent because the respective ATs can obtain information with regard to which subscribing ATs are offline via the presence feature. Also the control message can contain a listing of a preferred contact protocol e.g. the primary communication protocol or an alternate contact protocol in which case the notification of A need not be performed and the online subscribing ATs can instead rely upon the listed preferred contact protocols which for the offline subscribing ATs and non subscribing ATs would be the alternate contact protocol. Also in A it may be assumed that the alternate contact information was already obtained when configuring the control message in A such that A may correspond to a re loading of this information at AT . Also in the event of a determination to transmit data in blocks A A and A respectively the process advances A B of of respectively.

Referring to assume that one of the online subscribing ATs . . . N has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly the online subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server B via the primary communication protocol. The application server receives the media from the online subscribing AT and then transmits the media to each other online subscribing AT including AT B via the primary communication protocol. The online subscribing AT then determines whether one or more ATs are participating in the group communication session exclusively via one or more alternate contact protocols and not the primary communication protocol B. As will be appreciated the determination of B is based on i the control message received at A of and ii the indication of offline subscribing ATs received at A of . In other words if any offline subscribing ATs and or non subscribing ATs are included in the group then at least one of the group participants is participating exclusively via an alternate contact protocol. If only online subscribing ATs are participating in the group communication session the process can advance directly to B. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is present in the group. Accordingly the online subscribing AT transmits the media which was also sent to the other online subscribing ATs in B via the primary communication protocol to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s B.

After transmitting the media via the respective alternate contact protocol s in B B through B generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to assume that one of the offline subscribing ATs and or one of the non subscribing ATs has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly based on the control message the offline subscribing AT or non subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which forwards the media to each AT listed in the control message via their respective alternate contact protocol s C. For example if the alternate contact protocol is SMS messaging then one or more SMS messages is sent to each other group member in C.

After transmitting the media via the respective alternate contact protocol s in C C through C generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

In the embodiments described above with respect to the re transmission of media from an intermediate AT to other destination ATs is described. In at least one embodiment such re transmissions can be configured to include some type of attribution tag or code that functions to identify an original source of the message. For example if AT sends a message to AT and AT re transmits this message to AT AT should be aware that AT is the actual originator for this particular message and not AT . Thus AT can add the tag indicating AT as the source when re transmitting the message. It will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art with regard to how this concept can be applied to any re transmission of media discussed above.

The embodiments described above with respect to have primarily been directed to handset implementations of extending a communication group beyond ATs that are currently supporting a primary communication protocol associated with a server arbitrated group communication session. However as will now be described it is also possible to configure the application server itself to support online subscribing ATs via the primary communication protocol while also provisioning the application server with alternate contact information of the non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs such that the application server can mediate the session with multiple protocols.

Accordingly in A AT sends a group communication session initiation request to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server . In an example if the group communication session corresponds to a group text and or group multimedia session the group communication session initiation request can be sent along with initial media e.g. an initial text message an initial multimedia message including video and or audio etc. to be forwarded to the other group members. In A the application server receives the group communication session initiation request and loads contact information for each subscribing AT and or non subscribing AT belonging to the associated group. In other words in A of it is assumed that the application server includes a subscriber only group listing with associated group member information. However in the application server in can maintain both subscriber contact information and non subscriber contact information in association with the group. For example in addition to having information with regard to how to contact online subscribing ATs as is known in the art the application server is also provisioned with alternate contact information of all subscribing ATs if available as well as at least one non subscribing AT.

Thus similar to A of in A the application server locates the current online subscribers ATs . . . N belonging to the associated group and determines if any of the group members associated with the session request are offline or not currently logged into the application server . Based on the application server s determination of which ATs in the group are online subscribing ATs the application server transmits the media from AT to the online subscribing ATs via the primary communication protocol A similar to A of . However unlike the application server also transmits the media from AT to the non subscribing ATs and or the offline subscribing ATs via their associated alternate contact information A. In other words the application server need not rely on one or more of the online subscribing ATs to re transmit the media using the alternate contact protocol but rather can facilitate its own transmission of the media to the non subscribing ATs and or the offline subscribing via the alternate contact protocol s A. Thus the application server is capable of communicating via at least two protocols e.g. the primary communication protocol and at least one alternate contact protocol .

After sending the media to the non subscribing ATs and or the offline subscribing via the alternate contact protocol s in A A through A generally correspond to A through A of with the following exception namely in the event of a determination to transmit data in blocks A A and A respectively the process advances A B of of respectively.

Referring to assume that one of the online subscribing ATs . . . N has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly the online subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server B via the primary communication protocol. The application server receives the media from the online subscribing AT and then transmits the media to each other online subscribing AT including AT B via the primary communication protocol. The application server then determines whether one or more ATs are participating in the group communication session exclusively via one or more alternate contact protocols and not the primary communication protocol B. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is present in the group. Accordingly the application server transmits the media via the alternate contact protocol to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s B.

After transmitting the media via the respective alternate contact protocol s in B B through B generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to assume that one of the non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs has determined to send media to the group. Accordingly the non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT sends media to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server C via the alternate contact protocol. For example if the alternate contact protocol corresponds to email C can be achieved by provisioning the application server itself with an email address which is then conveyed to the non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs in A along with the media. In another example if the alternate contact protocol corresponds to SMS messaging C can be achieved by provisioning the application server itself with a phone number which is then conveyed to the non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs in A along with the media.

The application server receives the media from the non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT and then transmits the media to each online subscribing AT including AT C via the primary communication protocol. The application server then determines whether one or more other ATs are participating in the group communication session exclusively via one or more alternate contact protocols and not the primary communication protocol C. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the AT transmitting the media in C is present in the group. Accordingly the application server transmits the media via the alternate contact protocol to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the AT transmitting the media in C that is participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s C.

AT receives the media and re transmits the media to the application server D. In an example AT can re transmit the media in a manner such that the source of the transmission e.g. the non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT is somehow identified such as via a tag or field of the media transmission in D.

The application server receives the media from AT and determines that the media originated the non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT and then transmits the media to each online subscribing AT other than AT D via the primary communication protocol e.g. because AT already received the media . The application server then determines whether one or more other ATs e.g. other than the source of the media transmission in D are participating in the group communication session exclusively via one or more alternate contact protocols and not the primary communication protocol D. In this example it may be assumed that at least one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the AT transmitting the media in D is present in the group. Accordingly the application server transmits the media via the alternate contact protocol to each non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT other than the AT transmitting the media in D that is participating in the group communication session via their respective alternate contact protocol s D.

After transmitting the media via the respective alternate contact protocol s in D D through D generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

After transmitting the media via the respective alternate contact protocol s in C C through C generally correspond to A through A of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity.

In similar to above with respect to a handset based forwarding implementation an optional throttling implementation is discussed by which the application server can restrict or throttle transmissions e.g. delay ignore truncate etc. over the alternate contact protocol to reduce processing overhead and or system load or interference.

Accordingly in any of assume that the application server either i receives media via the primary communication protocol that is to be transmitted to one or more non subscribing ATs and or offline subscribing ATs via an alternate contact protocol or ii receives media via an alternate contact protocol from one non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT that is to be transmitted to at least one other non subscribing AT and or offline subscribing AT via an alternate contact protocol E. Next the application server determines whether to throttle the received media E. For example the application server can determine to throttle the media due to processing overload system interference if a frequency of alternate contact profile messages being sent from the application server is too higher e.g. more than 5 SMS messages in a minute etc. etc.

If the application server determines not to throttle the media in E the process returns to A of B of C of or D of and the media is transmitted via the alternate contact protocol s . Otherwise if the application server determines to throttle the media in E then the media is throttled in E. In an example throttling the media may correspond to reducing the rate at which the application server transmits the media i.e. delaying the transmission of at least some of the media . In another example throttling the media may correspond to eliminating some but not all of the data portion of the media and transmitting a reduced data packet that omits part of the media. In an example throttling the media may correspond to dropping the media and performing no transmission function of the media via the alternate contact protocol. In another example throttling the media may correspond to delaying one or more packets bound for the same destination AT s and then bundled multiple packets together to reduce the total number of messaging to from the destination AT s . After throttling the media the process returns back to B C and or D and the throttled media is then either selectively transmitted or is not transmitted in the throttled or reduced manner.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

