---

title: Stabilized open form transglutaminase as a diagnostic indictor for autoimmune diseases
abstract: The present invention relates to the diagnosis of disorders or dysfunctions characterized by autoimmune responses to the enzyme class of transglutaminases. The present invention provides a novel open structure of the transglutaminases in a stabilized form which renders new epitopes accessible for antibody-binding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08808980&OS=08808980&RS=08808980
owner: Zedira GmbH
number: 08808980
owner_city: Darmstadt
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20101111
---
This application is a 371 of PCT Application PCT EP2010 006983 filed Nov. 11 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 282 008 filed Dec. 2 2009.

The present invention relates to the diagnosis of disorders or dysfunctions characterized by autoimmune responses to the enzyme class of transglutaminases. The present invention provides a novel open structure of the transglutaminases in a stabilized form which renders new epitopes accessible for antibody binding.

Transglutaminases TG are enzymes that exist in higher vertebrates including the human body as a family of nine members including the inactive structural protein band 4.2. They fulfil a large variety of physiological functions e.g. in coagulation inflammation cell differentiation apoptosis cell cell and cell matrix interactions and wound healing. In the presence of Ca transglutaminases may develop their catalytic activity the formation of inter and intra molecular glutamyl lysine bonds also called iso peptide bonds between the side chains of peptidic glutamine and lysine. In general the results of this activity are high molecular weight protein aggregates. Transglutaminases 1 3 and 5 are mainly involved in skin formation factor XIII plasma transglutaminase is active in blood coagulation and wound healing transglutaminase 6 has mainly been found in neuronal tissues and transglutaminase 4 in semen fluid. Transglutaminase 2 tissue transglutaminase TG2 is ubiquitously present in various tissues. Besides its cross linking activity TG2 may also deamidate the carboxyamide group of peptidic glutamine especially under slightly acidic conditions as well as in the absence of lysine or other primary amines. As the deamidation product is a carboxyl group a negative charge is introduced into the peptide which results in a significant change of peptide properties. Further TG2 has GTP hydrolysing activity and functions as a G Protein. Even kinase activity is described. TG2 plays a role in several diseases like celiac disease fibrosis cancer and neurological disorders.

In celiac disease a chronic inflammation of the small intestine and an autoimmune disease TG2 plays a multifunctional role. Digestion of proteins present in our food is performed by proteolytical cleavage to amino acids and small peptides which can be resorbed by the intestinal mucosa. Cereal proteins like gluten show a high content of the amino acid proline. But the enzymes responsible for protein degradation in the digestive tract are not able to hydrolyse proline rich proteins into amino acids and small peptides. Consequently rather long peptides like gliadin peptides are present in the mucosa. Due to their size they cannot be resorbed but they are still able to pass the epithelium and to reach the so called lamina propria a connecting tissue between epithelium and muscular tissue. In the lamina propria extracellular TG2 is present. Now an essential step in celiac disease pathophysiology takes place TG2 deamidates gliadin peptides. In their deamidated form gliadin peptides are recognized by the HLA DQ2 and HLA DQ8 receptors of immune cells. This recognition leads to the triggering of the inflammatory response which in the final stage of the disease manifests in a complete villous atrophy of the intestinal mucosa. TG2 not only catalyses gliadin deamidation it serves also as autoantigen in celiac disease. Patients who suffer from celiac disease develop autoantibodies against TG2. If patients successfully follow a strict gluten free diet anti TG2 autoantibody titers decrease. Therefore TG2 is not only used as antigen for autoantibody detection in the diagnosis of celiac disease but also in the follow up and control of the gluten free diet. TG2 autoantibodies are also found in other diseases like diabetes type 1 or psoriasis and may therefore be used in non celiac disease diagnostics too.

Interestingly in other indications developing along or in consequence to celiac disease further autoantibodies against transglutaminases can be found Dermatitis herpetiformis a gluten sensitive skin disorder is characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against epidermal transglutaminase TG3 whereas in glutensensitive ataxia autoantibodies against neuronal transglutaminase TG6 have been found.

Objective of the present invention is to provide a more sensitive method for detecting autoimmune diseases characterized by the presence of transglutaminase specific autoantibodies.

The objective of the present invention is solved by the teaching of the independent claims. Further advantageous features aspects and details of the invention are evident from the dependent claims the description the figures and the examples of the present application.

The present invention surprisingly found that the use of the open form transglutaminase for detection of autoantibodies leads to higher titers compared to the closed form of the transglutaminase and reveals positive titers in patients with titers against the closed TG form below the cut off. This invention is of immense impact on diagnosis antibody isolation and immune cell characterization.

The transglutaminases change their tertiary structure upon substrate binding. Inactive non substrate binding TG shows a closed form which upon substrate binding changes to an open form. Both forms the closed form without substrate and the open form with substrate are recognized by autoantibodies. It is assumed that autoantibodies for the closed form as well as for the open form exist.

However it was most surprisingly found that the open form of the TG can be used to detect autoantibodies in much higher sensitivity in comparison to the closed form. Consequently much more sensitive and precise methods for detecting autoantibodies against the open form of the TG were developed and are subject of the present invention in order to much more precisely detect and diagnose diseases associated with the presence of autoantibodies for the open form transglutaminase.

Thus the present invention relates to a method for the diagnosis of an autoimmune disorder or an intestinal disorder or a skin disorder or a neurological disorder or other diseases wherein the open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase are used for the detection of the presence of autoantibodies specific for the open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase.

The open form of the transglutaminase or a fragment of the open form of a transglutaminase which has comparable activity to the open form transglutaminase thus an antigenically active fragment of this open form transglutaminase is generated by reacting the transglutaminase or the antigenically active fragment of the transglutaminase with an inhibitor comprising a backbone a peptide backbone or a peptidomimetic backbone and a thiol reactive group able to form a covalent bond to the thiol group of the cysteine in the active site of the TG. The inhibitor might also react with other cysteines which are not located in the active side of the TG but the inhibitor must be able to react with the cysteine in the active site of the respective TG. In order to make the inhibitor more regioselective the thiol reactive group of the inhibitor is preferably attached to a backbone a peptide backbone or peptidomimetic backbone or any synthetic backbone which has affinity to the active site in order to increase regioselectivity of the inhibitor molecule. In order to generate the open form of a TG it is important that the inhibitor attaches covalently to the thiol group of the cysteine within the active site of the TG. Consequently inhibitors are preferred which have a backbone attached to a thiol reactive group which has certain similarity to the natural substrates of the TG. Such backbones are preferably peptide like backbones i.d. backbones which comprise amide bonds and at least one carbon chain attached to the carbonyl group of the amide bond or at least one optionally substituted carbon atom between two amide bonds.

The autoimmune disorder can be selected from the group comprising or consisting of Addisons s disease alopecia areata ankylosing spondylitis antiphosholipid antibody syndrome autoimmune hemolytic anemia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune inner ear disease autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura immune thrombocytopenic purpura balo disease Behcet s disease bullous pemphigoid cardiomyopathy chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Cicatricial pemphigoid cold agglutinin disease CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Degos disease dermatomyositis dermatomyositis juvenile discoid lupus essential mixed cryoglobulinemia fibromyalgia Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Guillain Bar Hashimoto thyroiditis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura IgA nephropathy insulin dependent diabetes juvneile arthritis lichen planus lupus M ni re disease mixed connective tissue disease multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis PANDAS pemphigus vulgaris pernicious anemia polyarteritis nodosa polychondritis polyglandular syndromes polymyalgia rheumatica polymyositis dermatomyositis primary agammaglobulinemia primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis Raynaud phenomenon Reiter s syndrome rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis scleroderma sclerosing cholangitis Sj gren s syndrome Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis giant cell arteritis ulcerative colitis uveitis vasuclitis vitiligo Wegener s granulomatosis neurological disorder paraneoplastic neurological syndrome cereal protein sensitivity disorder gluten sensitive disorders celiac disease dermatitis herpetiformis Morbus Duhring diabetes mellitus type 1 anxiety depression brainstem encephalitis cerebral vasculitis chorea dementia epilepsy cerebral calcifications headache with white matter abnormalities neuromyotonia myasthenia gravis myopathy neuropathy progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy progressive myoclonic encephalopathy schizophreniform disorder stiff person syndrome ataxia ataxia with myoclonus encephalitis polymyositis epilepsy with occipital cerebral calcifications loss of sensation or muscle weakness paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis paraneoplastic opsoclonus myoclonus cancer associated retinopathy paraneoplastic stiff man syndrome paraneoplastic necrotizing myelopathy a motor neuron syndrome amyotrophic lateral sclerosis subacute motor neuronopathy subacute sensory neuronopathy brachial neuritis and neuromyotonia.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder can be selected from the group comprising or consisting of celiac disease dermatitis herpetiformis psoriasis Addisons disease autoimmune hepatitis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Hashimoto s thyroiditis rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis Polymyositis ulcerative colitis diabetes mellitus type 1 epilepsy stiff person syndrome and neuropathy especially gluten sensitive neuropathy gluten sensitive ataxia idiopathic sporadic ataxia and gluten ataxia with enteropathy.

The present invention is most useful for the diagnosis of an autoimmune disorder or autoimmune disease and especially of gluten sensitive disorders celiac disease dermatitis herpetiformis and gluten sensitive ataxia.

In other words the present invention relates to a method for the diagnosis of an autoimmune disorder wherein at least one open form transglutaminase or at least one antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase is used for the detection of the presence of autoantibodies specific for the open form transglutaminase or specific for the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase. Further the at least one open form or inhibited transglutaminase or at least one antigenically active fragment of the open form or inhibited transglutaminase is used for the diagnosis of diseases or for the monitoring and assessment of the effectiveness of therapy especially of autoimmune diseases. Further preferred is the use of open form TG or an antigenically active fragment thereof for detection of autoantibodies reacting with the open form TG in differential diagnosis of an autoimmune disease preferably a cereal protein sensitivity disorder and in risk assessment for complications in individuals susceptible to cereal protein sensitivity disorder.

The transglutaminases or open form transglutaminases used within the inventive method are selected from the group comprising or consisting of TG1 TG2 TG3 TG4 TG5 TG6 TG7 or coagulation factor XIII.

Most proteins fold into unique 3 dimensional structures. The shape into which a protein naturally folds is known as its native conformation. But proteins are not entirely rigid molecules. Proteins may shift between several related structures while they perform their functions. In the context of these functional rearrangements these tertiary or quaternary structures are usually referred to as conformations and transitions between them are called conformational changes. Such changes may be induced by the binding of a substrate molecule to an enzyme s active site or the physical region of the protein that participates in chemical catalysis.

The term open form transglutaminase as used herein refers to a transglutaminase which underwent a conformational change after binding a substrate or an inhibitor so that the term open form transglutaminase refers to a transglutaminase with a substrate or an inhibitor bound to the transglutaminase and where the conformation of the transglutaminase changes when binding the substrate or inhibitor. Preferably the term open form transglutaminase refers to an extended or elongated protein conformation of a transglutaminase present during the time of binding a substrate or substrate analogue or inhibitor to the TG in contrary to the more globular conformation without a substrate or inhibitor bound. This closed form may bind a GDP. It is preferred to obtain and stabilize the open form of a transglutaminase using an inhibitor as a substrate analogue. Therefore the open form TG may also be referred to as substrate or inhibitor bound transglutaminase which undergoes a conformational change when binding the inhibitor. The change in conformation will last as long as the substrate or inhibitor is bound and will reversibly change back to the original closed conformation when the substrate or the reversible inhibitor is released. Thus the open form transglutaminases of the present invention are these transglutaminases which underwent a change in conformation upon binding a substrate and preferably an irreversible inhibitor in order to stabilize this conformationally changed form.

The antigenically active fragments of the transglutaminases or of the open form transglutaminases are selected from the group comprising or consisting of antigenically active fragments of TG1 TG2 TG3 TG4 TG5 TG6 TG7 or coagulation factor XIII.

The term antigenically active fragment as used herein refers to a protein fragment that is able to elicit an antibody response and is able to be bound by an antibody. In regard to a TG or analogously to the open form of a TG an antigenically active fragment can be further defined as an arrangement of amino acid residues forming part of the surface of the TG or open form TG in particular the surfaces exposed upon enzyme activation either in the form of a continuous peptide sequence or amino acids held together by an artificial backbone that mimics their arrangement in the native protein. An antigenically active fragment can also be a portion of a TG with proteins or derived peptides bound to its active site which constitute common T cell epitopes. Examples for such proteins are proteins of the extracellular matrix like collagen fibronectin vitronectin osteonectin or villamentin or plasma proteins like 2 antiplasmin fibrin and fibrinogen or food proteins like gliadin. An example for a gliadin derived peptide is the alpha gliadin derived 33 mer LQLQPFPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQLPYPQPQPF accession number AJ133612 amino acids 57 89 . Preferably the antigenically active fragment of an open from transglutaminase is a synthetic peptide.

Antigenically active fragments can be produced by several techniques. A convenient method is the production of truncated variants of the respective transglutaminase by deleting N terminal C terminal or internal amino acids or peptides at one or more positions with respect to the primary sequence. The resulting truncated transglutaminase can then be inhibited in order to convert it into its open conformation. In case that the truncated transglutaminase shows no enzymatic activity any more a strong SH reactive inhibitor may be used in order to convert the protein in its open conformation. A further method for the generation of antigenically active fragments is the usage of a synthetic peptide which covers the sequence around the active site cystein where an inhibitor is added by chemical methods to the active site cystein. Finally the open conformation transglutaminase may be treated with proteases in order to create antigenically active fragments which can be separated by chromatographical methods known to people skilled in the art.

The methods of the present invention can also be performed using more than one open form or inhibited transglutaminase and or more than one antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase at the same time within the method. Thus mixtures of transglutaminases TGs can be used within the inventive methods. Furthermore the detection of for example transglutaminase 2 autoantibodies or transglutaminase 3 autoantibodies or transglutaminase 6 autoantibodies can be combined with the detection of autoantibodies to one or more further transglutaminase isoforms such as TG1 TG3 TG4 TG5 TG6 TG7 or coagulation factor XIII.

In the following the invention is described in detail in regard to transglutaminase 2 TG2 while the invention can be performed with all other TGs in a similar manner. However TG2 TG3 and TG6 are the preferred transglutaminases. Thus the present invention is not limited to the use of TG2. TG2 is only used as representative example of all TGs for disclosing the present invention in detail.

The transglutaminase 2 changes its tertiary structure upon substrate binding. Whereas inactive non substrate bound TG2 shows a closed more ball shaped form the two domains turn upon substrate binding resulting in a more longitudinal form as shown in . This shift in tertiary structure is a common feature of all vertebrate transglutaminases. Thus novel epitopes which have been covered or masked in the closed form are now accessible.

For instance the tissue transglutaminase TG2 is the autoantigen in celiac disease. The disease is characterized by an elevated titer of autoantibodies against TG2 IgA and IgG . Although suffering from celiac disease some patients show very low or no antibody titers at all. In a group of patients the lacking IgA titer can be explained by a general IgA deficiency. But there remain celiac disease patients with a biopsy proven celiac disease intestinal villous atrophy and without IgA deficiency but a TG2 autoantibody negative or doubtful serology.

Thus the diseases described herein can be detected more precisely and accurate by the use of the open form TG for the detection of autoantibodies against or specifically against said open TG form.

The open form of the transglutaminase is present at the time of binding a substrate to the TG. The TG is in a closed form when no substrate is bound. In order to obtain the TG in its open form a substrate or an inhibitor is added to the TG. Since it is advantageous to obtain a TG stabilized in its open form inhibitors and preferably irreversible inhibitors are used which react with the TG. Accordingly in order to obtain the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase is reacted with an inhibitor and preferably an irreversible inhibitor in order to stabilize the open form of the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase.

As used herein the term irreversible inhibitor refers to an inhibitor which covalently binds to the TG or which binds sufficiently tightly so that no equilibrium will exist. Irreversible inhibitors are most often inhibitors with at least one functional group which is able to form a covalent bond to the target such as a TG so that one inhibitor is required to inactivate one TG enzyme and consequently stabilize the open form of the TG.

Therefore the term open form transglutaminase or inhibited transglutaminase as used herein may also refer to transglutaminases with novel epitopes which are only accessible for antibodies after binding of an inhibitor. The inventive method uses transglutaminases which allows detecting novel auto antibodies which are not detected without the binding of an inhibitor. Therefore the inventive form of transglutaminases has newly accessible epitopes which allows for the detection of new auto antibodies.

The terms open form transglutaminase and open transglutaminase and inhibited transglutaminase and conformationally changed transglutaminase is used herein as synonyms. These terms refer to a transglutaminase such as TG2 TG3 TG6 which change their conformation upon binding an inhibitor or a substrate so that two conformationally distinct transglutaminases exist which are recognized by two sorts of antibodies. The antibodies for the open form or inhibited or conformationally changed form do most probably not recognize the closed form. Both sorts of antibodies can be detected in order to diagnose autoimmune disorders characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against the two different forms open closed or respectively not inhibited inhibited or conformationally unchanged conformationally changed of the respective transglutaminase.

The term conformationally changed refers to the changed conformation of the respective transglutaminase when a substrate or an inhibitor and especially one of the inhibitors disclosed herein is bound to the active site of the transglutaminase.

The closed form or not inhibited form or conformationally not changed form of the transglutaminase can be distinguished from the open form or inhibited form or conformationally changed form by the presence of another sort of autoantibodies directed to said open inhibited or conformationally changed form. Therefore presence of another sort of autoantibodies directed to one transglutaminase such as TG2 or TG3 or TG6 indicates that the open inhibited or conformationally changed form of said transglutaminase exists.

Inhibitors based on proteins e.g. proteins of the extracellular matrix plasma proteins or food proteins and dipeptidic or larger portions thereof as well as inhibitors comprising a peptide like backbone peptidomimetic backbone or any other backbone which has affinity to the active site of the TG or which has similarity with the backbone of the natural substrate in regard to length number of atoms tertiary structure molecular weight functional groups and or polarity can be used for the production of the open form of transglutaminase 1 transglutaminase 2 transglutaminase 3 transglutaminase 4 transglutaminase 5 transglutaminase 6 transglutaminase 7 or the coagulation factor XIII.

Suitable inhibitors which are able to form covalent bonds to the TGs are inhibitors with thiol reactive groups. Thiol reactive groups are preferably such groups which are electrophil and which are able to undergo a nucleophilic addition reaction with the thiol group SH group of cysteine such as acetylenes electrophilic olefins unsaturated aldimines Michael acceptors iodoacetamide N ethylmaleimide parachloromercuribenzoic acid alkyl isocyanates 3 5 substituted 4 5 dihydroisoxazoles oxiranes as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 188 830 moreover imidazoles pyrazoles triazoles and tetrazoles as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 968 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 572 U.S. Pat. No. 5 021 440 U.S. Pat. No. 5 030 644 U.S. Pat. No. 5 047 416 U.S. Pat. No. 5 077 285 U.S. Pat. No. 5 084 444 U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 707 U.S. Pat. No. 5 152 988 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 177 092 as well as the compound of the general formula

Preferred inhibitors which form covalent bonds to the TGs are inhibitors which comprise a peptide backbone or peptidomimetic backbone and a Michael acceptor moiety as reactive group. This Michael acceptor moiety is preferably a side chain bound to the peptidic or peptidomimetic backbone. Michael acceptor systems normally consist of a carbon carbon double bond in conjugation to a carbonyl group.

Preferred inhibitors are represented by the general formula TGI1 acceptor substituted double bond CO CH backbone TGI1 wherein m stands for 0 or 1 and preferably m is 0 and the acceptor substituted double bond carries at least one electron drawing residue capable to conjugate with an electronegativity 2.20 and the backbone is preferably a peptide or peptidomimetic from at least two amino acids and preferably a tetrapeptide or at least a dipeptidomimetic and or the backbone shows at least one amide bond. The acceptor substituted double bond is preferably a Michael system.

The above mentioned Michael acceptor inhibitors their synthesis and use are explicitly described in WO 2008055488 A1. It is especially referred to pages 3 to 38 of WO 2008055488 A1.

Furthermore the present invention describes the production of TG2 in a stabilized open form preferably by the use of the irreversible inhibitors disclosed above. TG2 was produced by recombinant DNA technology in and purified to homogeneity. Subsequently it was brought to reaction for instance with Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe which is the compound N benzyloxycarbonyl E L 6 amino hept 2 ene dicarboxylic acid 1 ethanoyl L glutaminyl L prolinyl L leucine methyl ester compound 2 synthesized in our labs according to the procedure described in WO 2008055488 A1 on page 68 compound 2 . By a further purification step excess Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe was separated. The resulting TG2 Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe adduct was crystallized. X ray structure analysis proved that TG2 is present in its open form after reaction with Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe.

Surprisingly it was found that TGs or antigenically active fragments of TGs stabilized by inhibitors and preferably irreversible inhibitors such as the inhibitors disclosed above are present in their open form which is much more sensitive in regard to the detection of autoantibodies against TGs or antigenically active fragments of TGs than the TGs in their closed form or the antigenically active fragments of the TGs in their closed form.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to the use of a gluten derived peptide with a thiol reactive group or preferably with a Michael acceptor residue as an inhibitor for the production of the open form transglutaminase. Such an adduct of a TG and a gluten derived peptide is again preferably prepared by reacting the TG with a reactive group such as a Michael acceptor moiety of the gluten derived peptide. Such an adduct of a TG such as TG2 with a gluten derived peptide is useful for the simultaneous detection of anti gliadin antibodies and anti open form transglutaminase autoantibodies.

Consequently the present invention also relates to the use of a gluten derived peptide with a thiol reactive residue or a Michael acceptor residue as an inhibitor for the production of the open form of a TG such as TG2 wherein the open form TG is useful for the simultaneous detection of anti gliadin antibodies and anti open form TG2 autoantibodies.

A further aspect of the present invention is directed to immobilized open form TGs which are immobilized on for instance titer plates microtiter plates or well plates. In addition the present invention relates to titer plates microtiter plates or well plates with immobilized open form TGs and or immobilized antigenically active fragments of open form TGs on their surface and especially within the wells where the detection reaction is performed.

We found that the stabilized open form or inhibited TG2 can be used for coating of microtiter plates. Sera from blood donors and from celiac disease patients have been subsequently analysed for autoantibodies against the open form TG2 in comparison to commonly used closed form TG2. Surprisingly the sera revealed higher titers for open form TG2 which resulted in a more significant value. In addition some sera could be proofed positive for autoantibodies to open form TG2 which have been diagnosed negative using the closed form TG2 as antigen.

A further aspect of the present invention is directed to a kit for the diagnosis of an autoimmune disorder characterized by the presence of autoantibodies reacting with at least one open form transglutaminase. Such a kit for diagnosis of an autoimmune disorder comprises at least one open form transglutaminase or at least one antigenically active fragment of an open form transglutaminase for the detection of the presence of autoantibodies specific for the open form transglutaminase or the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase.

These kits can present the open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments thereof in a form suitable for use in for example the following methods EIA ELISA LiA FiA RIA IRMA IEMA EIA ILMA IFMA immunodiffusion Western blot Dot blot immunohistochemistry protein chips or protein arrays.

Such kits may also comprise titer plates microtiter plates or well plates with open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase immobilized on the surface of the plate.

One smart way to manufacture titer plates microtiter plates or well plates with open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase immobilized on the surface of the plate is to use the interaction of biotin and biotin binding compounds like avidin or strepavidin. Therefore biotinlyation of the open form transglutaminase or the antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase is achieved by enzymatic or chemical methods and the biotinylated products are bound to surfaces coated with biotin binding compounds. Another possibility is to bind a biotinylated inhibitor to the TG or antigenically active TG fragment in order to obtain open form TG containing the covalently bound biotinylated inhibitor. Said adduct can be immobilized on the surface of titer plates microtiter plates or well plates by interacting with biotin binding compounds. Consequently another aspect of the present invention is related to the use of a biotinylated inhibitor for the production of open form transglutaminase for site specific immobilization to surfaces coated with biotin binding compounds.

The above described kits may further comprise a biotinylated open form transglutaminase or a biotinylated antigenically active open form TG fragment for immobilizing the biotinylated open form transglutaminase or biotinylated antigenically active open form TG fragment to a surface coated with biotin binding compounds. Alternatively the above described kits may further comprise an open form transglutaminase or an antigenically active fragment thereof reacted with a biotinylated inhibitor for immobilizing the open form transglutaminase biotinylated inhibitor product or the antigenically active fragment biotinylated inhibitor product to a surface coated with biotin binding compounds.

Another aspect of the present invention is directed to the production of open form transglutaminase using an inhibitor linked to one or more antigens specific for autoantibodies not against TG found in patients suffering from autoimmune diseases. An example would be linking the autoantigen in Goodpasture s disease noncollagenous 1 NC1 domain of type IV collagen via the inhibitor to the TG2. Such a construct would allow testing one patient sample for the presence of two or more autoantigenes against different proteins simultaneously.

The most important aspect of the present invention is that the present invention provides novel antigens for autoimmune diagnostics which yield higher and more significant titers resulting in a better diagnostic sensitivity. Furthermore the present invention shows that the conformation has an impact on triggering the autoimmune disease and accordingly to detect early stage disease states.

Moreover the invention implicates that not tissue transglutaminase but the covalent adduct between transglutaminase and irreversibly bound substrate or inhibitor displays the disease state and correlates to inflammation and villous atrophy.

The open form or inhibited transglutaminase is used for the isolation of specific antibodies from patient derived samples including blood purification apheresis .

Thus the present invention also relates to a method for purifying blood wherein the open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase are used for binding and removing autoantibodies specific for the open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase from the blood. Such a method uses the common dialysis process. The adsorber material used in the extracorporeal adsorber column contains immobilized open form transglutaminase or antigenically active fragments of the open form transglutaminase in order to bind the autoantibodies against the TG or the antigenically active fragment of the TG or the open form transglutaminase or against the antigenically active fragment of the open form transglutaminase thus removing these autoantibodies from the blood.

Consequently open form specific antibodies are used for therapeutic approaches where active and therefore open form transglutaminase shall be neutralized whereas inactive and therefore closed form transglutaminase shall not be affected.

The open form transglutaminase or inhibited transglutaminase stabilized in its open form is used for the detection of open form specific autoantibodies in samples from body fluids excretions or tissues. The open form transglutaminase or the antigenically active open form TG fragment is used for a more sensitive and more accurate detection of autoimmune diseases and autoimmune disorders.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is a food protein sensitivity disorder. Further preferably the autoimmune disorder is a cereal protein sensitivity disorder. Further preferably the cereal protein disorder is a gluten sensitivity disorder with or without enteropathy. Most preferably the gluten sensitivity disorder is selected from the group consisting of or comprising celiac disease dermatitis herpetiformis Morbus Duhring and gluten sensitive ataxia.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is a neurological disorder or is characterized by neurological dysfunction. Preferably the autoimmune disorder characterised by neurological dysfunction is anxiety depression brainstem encephalitis cerebral vasculitis chorea dementia epilepsy cerebral calcifications headache with white matter abnormalities neuromyotonia myasthenia gravis myopathy neuropathy a paraneoplastic syndrome progressive multifocal leu koencephalopathy progressive myoclonic encephalopathy multiple sclerosis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy schizophreniform disorder or stiff person syndrome.

Most preferably the autoimmune disorder characterised by neurological dysfunction is immune mediated ataxia encephalitis cerebral vasculitis neuromyotonia myasthenia gravis polymyositis immune mediated peripheral neuropathy a paraneoplastic syndrome multiple sclerosis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy headache with white matter abnormalities epilepsy with occipital cerebral calcifications or stiff person syndrome.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is a gluten sensitivity disorder with neurological symptoms selected from the group consisting of or comprising cerebellar ataxia neuropathy myopathy ataxia with myoclonus myelopathy cerebral calcifications headache with white matter abnormalities dementia chorea or Stiff person syndrome.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder characterised by neurological dysfunction is ataxia ataxia with myoclonus encephalitis polymyositis epilepsy with occipital cerebral calcifications loss of sensation or muscle weakness.

Preferably the paraneoplastic neurological syndrome is paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis paraneoplastic opsoclonus myoclonus cancer associated retinopathy paraneoplastic stiff person syndrome paraneoplastic necrotizing myelopathy a motor neuron syndrome including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS and subacute motor neuronopathy subacute sensory neuronopathy polyradiculoneuropathy Guillain Barr brachial neuritis or neuromyotonia.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is an endocrinologic autoimmune disease. Preferably the endocrinologic autoimmune disease is selected from the group consisting of or comprising diabetes mellitus type 1 Addisons disease and Hashimoto s thyroiditis.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is a dermatologic autoimmune disease. Preferably the dermatologic autoimmune disease is selected from the group consisting of or comprising psoriasis and dermatitis herpetiformis.

Preferably the autoimmune disorder is a gastrointestinal autoimmune disease. Preferably the gastrointestinal autoimmune disease is selected from the group consisting of or comprising celiac disease pernicious anaemia and ulcerative colitis.

Preferably the open form TG2 is used for the detection auf autoantibodies in the sera of patients suffering from autoimmune diseases characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against open form TG2. Moreover the open form TG2 is preferably used for the detection of autoantibodies in samples from patients suffering from a gluten sensitive disorder especially suffering from celiac disease. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to the use of open form TG2 for the detection of specific autoantibodies in celiac disease patients who have no or low antibody titers against closed form TG2.

In another embodiment of the present invention the open form TG2 is used for the detection of autoantibodies in patients suffering from diabetes mellitus type 1 and in a still further embodiment of the present invention the open form TG2 is used for the detection of specific autoantibodies in recent onset celiac disease patients which did not develop antibodies against closed form TG2 yet.

Preferably the open form TG3 is used for the detection auf autoantibodies in the sera of patients suffering from autoimmune diseases characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against open form TG3. Moreover the open form TG3 is preferably used for the detection of autoantibodies in samples from patients suffering from dermatitis herpetiformis.

Preferably the open form TG6 is used for the detection auf autoantibodies in the sera of patients suffering from autoimmune diseases characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against open form TG6. Moreover the open form TG6 is preferably used for the detection of autoantibodies in samples from patients suffering from neuropathy ataxia or gluten sensitive ataxia or stiff person syndrom.

In the present invention any method and device suitable for the diagnostic detection of proteins or antibodies in samples of body fluids or in tissue samples can be used to detect autoantibodies reacting with open form transglutaminases. Examples of such methods and devices include EIA ELISA LiA FiA RIA IRMA IEMA EIA ILMA IFMA immunodiffusion Western blot Dot blot immunohistochemistry protein chips or protein arrays. Thus another aspect of the present invention is directed to protein chips and protein arrays containing at least one open form transglutaminase or at least one antigenically active open form TG fragment preferably in an immobilized form. Such chips and arrays may preferably contain more than one open form transglutaminase isoform selected from transglutaminase 1 transglutaminase 2 transglutaminase 3 transglutaminase 4 transglutaminase 5 transglutaminase 6 transglutaminase 7 or coagulation factor XIII preferably in an immobilized form.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to pharmaceutical formulations and pharmaceutical compositions containing the open form of a TG together with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient solvent and or diluents.

The preferred preparations and formulations are in administrable form which is suitable for oral application or injection. These administrable forms include pills tablets film tablets coated tablets capsules solutions dispersions and deposits.

For example for oral administration in the form of tablets or capsules the open form TG may be combined with any oral nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier such as lactose starch sucrose cellulose magnesium stearate dicalcium phosphate calcium sulfate talc mannitol ethyl alcohol liquid forms and the like. Moreover when desired or needed suitable binders lubricants disintegrating agents and colouring agents may also be incorporated in the mixture.

Suitable binders include starch gelatine natural sugars corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia sodium alginate carboxymethyl cellulose polyethylene glycol and waxes. Among the lubricants that may be mentioned for use in these dosage forms are boric acid sodium benzoate sodium acetate sodium chloride and the like. Disintegrants include starch methylcellulose guar gum and the like. Sweetening and flavouring agents and preservatives may also be included where appropriate. Some of the terms noted above namely disintegrants diluents lubricants binders and the like are discussed in more detail below.

Additionally the compositions of the present invention may be formulated in sustained release form to provide a controlled release of the open form TG. Suitable dosage forms for sustained release include layered tablets containing layers of varying disintegration rates or controlled release polymeric matrices impregnated with the active components and shaped in tablet form or capsules containing such impregnated or encapsulated porous polymeric matrices.

Liquid form preparations include solutions suspensions and emulsions especially for injection. As an example may be mentioned water or water propylene glycol solutions for parenteral injections or addition of sweeteners and opacifiers for oral solutions suspensions and emulsions. Liquid form preparations may also include solutions for intranasal administration.

Aerosol preparations suitable for inhalation may include solutions and solids in powder form which may be in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as inert compressed gas e.g. nitrogen.

For preparing suppositories a low melting wax such as a mixture of fatty acid glycerides such as cocoa butter is first melted and the active ingredient is dispersed homogeneously therein by stirring or similar mixing. The molten homogeneous mixture is then poured into convenient sized molds allowed to cool and thereby solidifies.

Also included are solid form preparations which are intended to be converted shortly before use to liquid form preparations for either oral or parenteral administration. Such liquid forms include solutions suspensions and emulsions especially for injection.

The term capsule refers to a special container or enclosure made of methyl cellulose polyvinyl alcohols or denatured gelatines or starch for holding or containing compositions comprising the active ingredients. Hard shell capsules are typically made of blends of relatively high gel strength bone and pork skin gelatines. The capsule itself may contain small amounts of dyes opaquing agents plasticizers and preservatives.

Tablet means compressed or molded solid dosage form containing the active ingredients with suitable diluents. The tablet can be prepared by compression of mixtures or granulations obtained by wet granulation dry granulation or by compaction well known to a person skilled in the art.

Oral gels refers to the active ingredients dispersed or solubilized in a hydrophilic semi solid matrix.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to the open form of a TG or to pharmaceutical formulations and pharmaceutical compositions containing the open form of a TG for the use in medicine.

These pharmaceutical preparations may preferably be used for a hyposensitisation therapy for patients suffering from autoimmune diseases caused by a gluten intolerance. Consequently another aspect of the present invention is directed to the use of an open form of a TG such as TG2 for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for hyposensitisation of a patient suffering from an autoimmune disorder caused by a gluten intolerance.

As used herein the term hyposensitisation therapy refers to an immunologic desensitization or allergen specific immunotherapy wherein a patient is vaccinated with initially low doses of an open form TG such as TG1 TG2 TG3 TG4 TG5 TG6 TG7 or coagulation factor XIII which are increased during the treatment period with the aim of inducing immunologic tolerance.

Accordingly the present invention discloses a method for hyposensitizing a mammal including a human by administering a pharmaceutically effective amount of an open form TG to said mammal which suffered from an autoimmune disorder caused by gluten intolerance. The open form or inhibited TG is preferably administered starting from low doses with increasing doses during the treatment period after a gluten free diet of the patient and at a time where the patient does not show any symptoms of the autoimmune disease which could be measured clinically or by biopsy or serology.

Crystallization has been performed applying the sitting drop vapor diffusion method and 1.75 2.25 M NH SO 100 mM HEPES pH 6.75 7.5 at 18 C. Rhombic shaped crystals appeared in 5 to 7 days Space group P422 Unit cell constants a b 71.0 c 310.4 . The data set was collected with synchrotron radiation and yielded a resolution of 2.5 . Processing of the data allowed to determine the position of the inhibitor in the TG2 and confirmed the open conformation.

Open form or inhibited TG2 has been produced as described in example 1. Nunc Lockwell Maxisorp plates have been coated overnight at 4 C. with 100 l per well coating solution composed of 20 mM Tris HCL pH 7.4 150 mM NaCl and 1 g ml open form TG2. Then coating solution was removed and plates were washed intensively with TBS 20 mMTris HCl pH7.4 150 mM NaCl containing 0.01 Tween 20. Blocking was performed by the addition of 200 l TBS containing 3 bovine serum albumin for 1 h. Blocking solution was removed and plates were washed intensively with TBS 20 mMTris HCl pH7.4 150 mM NaCl containing 0.01 Tween 20.

Sera from celiac disease patients and from blood donors have been analysed for antibodies against closed form TG2 and open form TG2 by Enzyme Linked Immuno Sorbent Assays ELISA . For the detection of IgA type autoantibodies against closed form TG2 ELISA Kit E001 from Zedira GmbH Darmstadt Germany was used whereas for IgG type autoantibodies kit E002 from Zedira GmbH Darmstadt Germany was used.

For detection of IgA and IgG type antibodies against open conformation TG2 the microtiter plates as described in example 3 have been used. All other components necessary for performing the ELISAs have been taken from Zedira kits E001 and E002 respectively. Accordingly the protocols of E001 and E002 have been used 10 l of each serum have been diluted with 990 l sample buffer mixed thoroughly and centrifuged to sediment insoluble particles. Immediately prior to use the solid phase was washed once with 350 L wash buffer per well. After 10 seconds the wash butter was completely removed. 100 L of the calibrators the negative and positive control and the diluted samples have rapidly been dispensed into the micro plate wells. After incubation for 30 minutes at room temperature the wells have been washed 4 times with 350 l wash buffer. Using an 8 channel pipette 100 l of conjugate have been dispensed per well subsequently and incubated for 30 min. After a further washing procedure 100 l substrate solution have been dispensed into the wells and incubated for 30 minutes. Then 100 l stop solution have been added. Finally the plates were agitated on an orbital shaker for about 10 seconds and the absorbance at 450 nm has been determined.

Results are given in Tab. 1 4. Surprisingly the standards mixture of celiac disease patients sera yielded significantly higher extinction values at 450 nm when the open form TG2 was used as antigen in the IgG ELISAs Tab. 1 and 2 . This demonstrates a higher titer of antibodies to open form TG2 in the standards than to closed form TG2. Blood donor s serum 26 which is tested positive in the closed form ELISA is clearly negative in the open form ELISA. Therefore the open form TG2 ELISA provides less false positive results in autoimmune diagnostics Tab. 2 .

Detection of autoantibodies of the IgG type in patient s sera Tab. 2 revealed lower mUnit values in the majority of all sera which were tested negative enlarging the distance to the cutoff. Sera 50 51 and 67 have been positive in the closed and open form TG2 but the titers for the open form again have been proved higher for two sera. Whereas Serum 68 was positive in the closed form and negative in the open form ELISA sera 69 and 79 could be proved positive with the open form ELISA.

In Summary use of open form TG2 as antigen in celiac disease IgG diagnostics results in a higher diagnostic specificity and sensitivity than closed form TG2.

The results of the IgA type autoantibody detection are presented in Tab. 3 blood donor s sera . Whereas the closed form TG2 ELISA could detect 1 positive serum 26 open form TG2 detected 5 positive sera 4 17 25 26 27 .

From 3 negative patients sera using closed form TG2 1 could be detected positive using the open form TG2 thus increasing the diagnostic sensitivity Tab. 4 .

With two exceptions higher Unit values have been measured in patient s sera using the open form TG2. Several patients sera like 49 71 76 or 80 showed more than 100 higher titers in the open form assay. This shows that patients have autoantibodies specific to the open conformation of TG2. Especially when the titers are close to the cut off the open form TG2 yields more reliable diagnostic results e.g. sera 61 and 70 .

The patient number A is a child diagnosed for celiac disease by histology upon biopsy. While negative or doubtful results are obtained using standard diagnostics 2.0 U ml for IgG and 1.2 U ml for IgA cut off 3 U ml the novel antigen is able to detect early antibodies. 13 U ml for IgG and 45 U ml for IgA 

Patient number B and C presented to the doctor with severe symptoms of celiac disease confirmed by biopsy. However only comparable low or doubtful titers against TG2 2.9 or 3.5 U ml cutoff 3 U ml have been found. Indeed the new antigen shows tremendously higher titers correlating with severity of the inflammation and villous atrophy Patient B Marsh II by biopsy 19 U ml Patient C Marsh III by biopsy 39 U ml .

Patient D was diagnosed with diabetes type one. While the standard ELISA displays no antibodies against TG2 the novel antigen could detect IgG 11 U ml as well as IgA 46 U ml antibodies.

Patient E was diagnosed for psoriasis. Whereas no TG2 autoantibodies could be detected with the standard ELISA clearly positive values IgA 37 U ml IgG 21 U ml have been obtained using the open form TG2 as antigen in the ELISA.

In conclusion we have shown the presence of autoantibodies of the IgA and the IgG type which specifically recognize the open conformation TG2. Usage of open form TG2 increases diagnostic sensitivity and specificity in the corresponding autoimmune diagnostics e.g. celiac disease diagnostics.

Therefore with the newly developed open form TG2 we provide a novel diagnostic antigen which helps to improve TG2 based diagnostics. It may be used in all methods used for the detection of antibodies in samples of body fluids or tissue samples. Examples for such methods include EIA ELISA LiA FiA RIA IRMA IEMA EIA ILMA IFMA immunodiffusion Western blot or Dot blot. Any of these methods could be adapted for diagnostic purposes using the antigen described herein in detail by a person skilled in the art.

As transglutaminases are structurally related the phenomenon surprisingly found for TG2 and described in detail in this application will also be applicable to other transglutaminases like TG3 in the diagnosis of dermatitis herpetiformis or TG6 in the diagnosis of gluten sensitive neurological disorders.

Patient F suffered from celiac disease and has been on gluten free diet for 8 years. According to biopsy and serology Patient F was on remission and showed no celiac disease symptoms any more. Patient F has been injected subcutaneously a solution containing open TG2 which has been produced according to example 1. Injections have been repeated weekly over a period of six months the doses have been increased over this period in order to reach the maintenance dose. The application has then been repeated applying the maintenance dose once a month for 1.5 years. Patient F was kept on a strict gluten free diet for this whole hyposensitisation therapy period. Later on the patient started to consume minor amounts 1 g per day of gluten in addition to the gluten free diet. No celiac disease symptoms could be measured clinically or by biopsy or serology.

Example 5 demonstrates that the open form of a TG can be used for a hyposensitisation therapy for patients suffering from autoimmune diseases caused by a gluten intolerance.

Further Sera have been analyzed according to the protocol outlined in Example 4. Patients groups 1 5 are defined by a positive celiac disease diagnosis but a low or negative titer for TG2 autoantibodies as measured by classical assays using closed TG2 as antigen.

Group 1 is defined by overt small bowel mucosal villous atrophy. 30 sera of this kind have been analyzed. In general the autoantibody titer measured with the open form TG2 was higher than that measured for the closed form TG2. 14 sera were slightly positive in the closed form TG2 IgA ELISA whereas in the open form TG2 IgA ELISA 28 sera could be detected positive as shown in . Thus 93 of patients could be detected serologically using the open form TG2 as antigen whereas only 47 could be detected with the closed form TG2. Therefore the open form TG2 is able to detect the majority of celiac disease patients which is not the case for the closed form TG2. In the IgG ELISA no positive sera could be detected using the closed form TG2 as antigen whereas 5 sera have been detected as positive using the open form TG2. This shows that open form TG2 is also able to detect more IgG type autoantibodies than closed form TG2 and thus is able to detect more celiac disease patients by ELISA based serology.

Group 2 is defined by early stage celiac disease characterized by mild enteropathy. 14 sera have been analyzed. Again the titers are generally higher for the open form TG2. 6 sera 42 have been positive for IgA type autoantibodies against closed TG2 whereas 13 93 revealed to be positive using the open form TG2 as antigen . Thus also in the group of early stage celiac disease the open form TG2 is able to detect the majority of celiac disease patients by serology which again is not the case for closed form TG2.

Group 3 is defined by unresponsive treated celiac disease. 16 patients have been analyzed. Again the titers are generally higher for the open form TG2. 3 19 sera have been positive for the closed form TG2 ELISA IgA whereas 9 56 have been positive using the open form TG2 as antigen . Therefore the open form TG2 is able to detect about three times more celiac disease patients by serology in this group.

Group 4 is defined by overt small bowel mucosal villous atrophy and for one year on gluten free diet. Using the closed form TG2 ELISA all 21 patients did not show TG2 autoantibodies anymore. Testing the sera with the open form TG2 ELISA proved that in 5 patients 24 TG2 autoantibodies are still present . Therefore open TG2 is able to detect even minor amounts of TG2 autoantibodies and helps to detect celiac disease patients where gluten free diet is not completely successful.

Group 5 is defined by early stage CD patients after one year on gluten free diet. The closed form showed successful diet for all of the 11 patients no TG2 autoantibodies anymore whereas the open form showed for 4 patients that TG2 autoantibodies are still present indicating that the diet has not been completely successful.

Group 6 is defined by patients where celiac disease has been suspected but so far could not be diagnosed by the celiac disease diagnostic methods available. 4 out of the 25 sera tested where positive using the open form TG2 . Thus these 4 patients could be detected as celiac disease patients.

Group 7 is a cohort of 150 non selected celiac disease patients on gluten free diet. 52 sera 35 revealed to be positive in the closed form TG2 IgA ELISA whereas 71 48 have been positive in the open form IgA ELISA. shows the data of the most interesting cases close to the cut off where most closed from TG2 ELISA results are negative. Therefore open TG2 based diagnostics revealed that not one third but half of the patients still have TG2 autoantibodies indicating that they did not follow a successful diet.

A is a Michael acceptor based inhibitor with a peptidic backbone. B also has a peptidic backbone but diazo 5 oxonorleucin or DON as reactive group. C is a Michael acceptor with a peptidomimetic backbone. Whereas A and B have gluten derived backbones D has a casein and therefore non gluten derived sequence. E is a non peptidic non peptidomimetic molecule alkylating the active site cystein of transglutaminase.

Microtiterplates have then been coated with the respective open conformation TG2 variants according to example 3. 10 celiac disease patients sera have been analyzed according to example 4 for IgA type auto antibodies with plates coated with closed form TG2 and open form TG2 variants prepared using the inhibitors A B C D and E.

The results given in the following table show that the signal obtained is independent from the inhibitor used for preparation of the stabilized open conformation TG2. It can also be seen that the open form TG2 yields higher titers and can help to diagnose patients which have a negative titer in the closed TG2 assay sera PS148 and PSE1 .

TG2 prepared according to example 1 has been biotinylated by incubating 4 mg TG2 in a 2.4 mg ml solution in PBS with 20 fold molar excess of Sulfo NHS Biotin at 20 C. for 30 min. Excess of Sulfo NHS Biotin was removed using a desalting column. The degree of labeling was determined to 1.7 Biotin molecules per TG2 HABA Assay Pierce . In a second step biotinylated TG2 was used for the preparation of open conformation biotinylated TG2 as described in example 3. Coating of streptavidin coated microtiterplates Pierce was performed according to the manufacturer s protocol.

5 blood donors sera DS and 5 patient s sera PS have been analyzed for IgA type autoantibodies using the above mentioned plates coated with biotinylated open TG2. The results are presented in the table below. Production of biotinylated open conformation TG2 and subsequent immobilization on streptavidin coated solid phase clearly allows the detection of autoantibodies in celiac disease patient s sera.

The results given in table 6 show that the auto antibody titers obtained for the patient s sera are generally much higher than for the blood donors sera. The data correlates to the signals obtained in example 7. Therefore it can be seen that the biotinylated open form TG2 yields comparable titers and can also help to diagnose patients which have a negative titer in the closed TG2 assay.

Dispase activated TG3 Zedira product No. T124 and TG6 Zedira product No. T121 were incubated with Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe according to example 1. Microtiterplates have been coated with the reaction product according to example 3. Sera from patients suffering from celiac disease CD gluten ataxia GA gluten ataxia with enteropathy GAE stiff man syndrome SMS Genetic ataxia GenA idiopathic sporadic ataxia ISA and dermatitis herpetiformis DH have been analyzed for autoantibodies against TG3 Zedira Kit product No. E009 TG6 Zedira Kits product No. E003 and E004 and with the respective open conformation antigens as described above. For the TG3 variants IgA type auto antibodies have been determined whereas for the TG6 variants IgA and IgG type autoantibodies where measured. The results are summarized in the table below.

The sera generally show comparable titers for closed TG3 as well as open form TG3 auto antibodies. There are 4 sera with a significant difference. Serum PS31 is negative 2 U ml for the closed form TG3 but positive for the open form 3 U ml . Serum PS32 7 U ml is clearly above the cut off for anti open form TG3 whereas the titer for the closed form is on the cut off level. Serum PS35 has twice the titer for open form TG3 autoantibodies than for TG3 autoantibodies. Both titers are clearly positive. Serum PS55 has a 30 higher titer for the closed form but is clearly positive for both TG3 antigens. Therefore in some sera having negative or low titers for autoantibodies against closed TG3 the usage of the open conformation TG3 as antigen can reveal more clearly positive titers.

With respect to TG6 the auto antibody titers are generally much higher for the open form than for the closed form independently from the Ig type. Further 8 sera negative for TG6 show positive titers for open conformation TG6 in the IgA ELISA. The same is true for 7 sera in the IgG ELISA.

Therefore using TG6 in its open conformation helps to reveal auto antibodies in the serum of patients which cannot be detected with the closed form as antigen.

In addition the data show that PS11 serum taken from a patient suffering from stiff man syndrome is positive for the open conformation TG6 titer IgA type . Positive open TG6 titers can also be found in patients suffering from celiac disease gluten ataxia with enteropathy gluten ataxia and dermatitis herpetiformis.

ELISA kits with the antigens TG2 closed and open conformation or TG6 closed and open conformation have been prepared according to the above mentioned examples and sera form patients suffering from various disorders have been analyzed for autoantibodies against the respective antigens.

Patients suffered from the following disorders Addisons disease AD chronic adrenal insufficiency characterized by antibodies against corticosteroid producing cells of the adrenal glands autoimmune hepatitis AH chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP loss of the myelin sheath of the peripheral nerves Hashimoto s thyroiditis HT hypothyroidism characterized by autoantibodies against thyroid peroxidase or thyroglobulin rheumatoid arthritis RA arthritis characterized by auto antibodies attacking especially joint lining and cartilage multiple sclerosis MS Polymyositis PM inflammatory myopathy ulcerative colitis UC diabetes mellitus type 1 DM1 characterized by autoantibodies against beta cells epilepsy EP neuropathy NE .

In the mentioned examples it could be shown that autoantibodies are present and generally the titer for the antigens in the open conformation are higher. Especially in cases with a low titer positive or negative but close to the cutoff the open conformation antigens are beneficial for diagnostic purposes. The data are given in the following table.

Tissue transglutaminase fragments were produced recombinantly in as deletion mutants lacking C terminal amino acids from positions S538 and E447 according to example 1 an methods known to persons skilled in the art. The resulting truncated tissue transglutaminases still were enzymatically active although the activity was reduced to 5 and 1 respectively compared to the full length enzyme. Transglutaminase 6 fragment lacking the C terminal amino acids from position G594 was produced accordingly.

Inhibition with Z PIMen OEt QPL OMe was performed according to example 1 but at room temperature over night to generate the open form transglutaminase fragments. Microtiterplates have been coated with the open form transglutaminase fragments according to example 3. Sera of celiac disease patients and gluten ataxia patients have been analyzed. The data given in tab. 9 demonstrate that also the open transglutaminase fragments show higher autoantibody titers compared to the closed full length form.

Hollow fibers or particles made of polysulfone are provide with amino groups as described in J Polym Sci Part A Polym Chem 41 1316 1329 2003 by a reaction with n butyllithium provided with benzonitrile and reduction with cyanoborohydride in acidic medium for benzylamine.

The activation of the carboxyl groups of the open form TG2 was made with CME CDI N cyclohexyl N 2 morpholinoethyl carbodiimide methyl p toluolsulfat . For this purpose a reaction solution of open form TG2 and CME CDI 1 1 w w at 4 C. in 0.1 M MES buffer 2 N morpholino ethane sulfonic acid prepared at pH 4.75 and stirred for half an hour. The reaction solution is passed for 4 hours at room temperature on the surface of the aminated hollow fibers. The fibers are then washed with PBS buffer and water to neutrality.

This patient had been removed blood twice before treatment with positive values for antibodies against open form TG2 but not for TG2. After the apheresis the signal for open TG2 was reduced below the threshold.

2 g of TG2 open TG2 TG3 dispase activated TG3 inhibited dispase activated TG3 TG6 and inhibited TG6 have been mixed with 3 loading buffer 56 mM Tris HCl ph6.8 22.5 glycerol 11 bromophenylblue and loaded on a 4 20 gradient gel BioRad . 25 mm Tris HCl pH 8.5 122 mM glycin has been used as electrophoresis buffer. Native PAGE has been run for 75 min and 125 V at 4 C. Coomassie staining of the gel revealed that TG2 migrates faster than open TG2 indicating a conformational change which leads to slower migration in the native PAGE and which has already been proven by crystal structure analysis. TG6 and inhibited TG6 showed comparable migration properties than TG2 and open TG2 indicating conformational changes of open TG6 comparable to open TG2.

Dispase activation cleaves TG3 in two polypeptides which do not dissociate. TG3 and dispase activated TG3 migrated both as a single band. Dispase activated TG3 migrates slower than non activated TG3. Inhibited TG3 migrated in two bands. These results show that inhibition of TG3 enables dissociation of the two subunits so that hidden or new epitopes become accessible.

Open TG6 prepared according to example 9 has been used to coat microtiterplates according to example 3. In addition half of the plates has been coated in with coating buffer lacking open TG6 background control wells BG wells . The ELISA protocol has been modified by measuring each sample twice in open TG6 coated wells and BG wells. The median value of the BG wells has been subtracted from the median value of the open TG6 coated wells before calculating the Units. Serum specific background due to non specific binding to the wells could be eliminated.

The results are given in Tab. 10 and again prove that usage of the open conformation yields more positive titers than the closed conformation. In addition it reduces the number of false positive samples in the IgG assay sera GenA8 and GenA16 .

