---

title: System and method for creating financial assets
abstract: A system for creating and maintaining financial assets which accentuate different types of sub-loan level risk associated with a plurality of home mortgage loans and which are configured to operate as hedges against risks that oppose the different types of sub-loan level risk is provided. A decomposition tool is configured to decompose each of the plurality of home mortgage loans into a plurality of sub-loan level cash flows. A repackaging tool is configured to repackage the plurality of sub-loan level cash flows to form the financial assets. Repackaging includes selecting a sub-combination of the plurality of sub-loan level cash flows, packaging the sub-combination of sub-loan level cash flows to create one of the financial assets, and repeating the selecting and packaging steps to create additional financial assets. A graphical user interface is configured to display information relating to the sub-loan level cash flows and financial assets on a display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195564&OS=08195564&RS=08195564
owner: Fannie Mae
number: 08195564
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 747 740 filed Dec. 29 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 856 397 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 437 065 filed Dec. 30 2002 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to investment services systems and methods. More particularly the present invention relates to cash flow systems and methods.

Introduction of the mortgage backed security MBS has made the dream of owning a home possible for a much larger number of individuals. Frequently when a borrower takes out a loan to purchase a home that loan is subsequently pooled with other loans and used to create an MBS. The MBS is an investment instrument that can be sold to investors in the global capital markets. Upon sale of the MBS lenders can turn around and make new loans using proceeds from the sale. In effect the MBS is a way for the global capital markets to provide capital for loans to fund home ownership. The increased availability of capital reduces interest rates as compared to the interest rates that would otherwise be available and therefore makes home ownership more affordable for an increased number of individuals.

While the mortgage backed security approach has worked exceptionally well home ownership rates could be further improved if loans could be used to create new forms of mortgage backed securities and or other types of investment instruments or other assets that more optimally align with investor needs. A more optimal alignment would result in further increases in the availability of capital further reductions in interest rates and ultimately increased home ownership rates.

Different investors typically have different investment needs. For example different investors typically have different investment horizons. Thus some investors may have short investment horizons and may be seeking one or more short term investment instruments whereas other investors may have longer investment horizons and may be seeking one or more long term investment instruments. Different investors also typically have different risk criteria including different appetites for risk. For example different investors may seek to avoid or accept different types risk depending on the types of risk already present in their investment portfolio. In the case of diversification an investor may seek to diversify the investments it holds in order to avoid overexposure to any one type of risk. In the case of more sophisticated risk hedging strategies an investor may consider itself to be overexposed to a particular type of risk and may purchase investments that provide an effective hedge or counterbalance against that risk. Hedging is particularly useful for businesses that by the nature of their business may become exposed to certain types of risk. By purchasing investment instruments that are exposed to an opposing risk a counterbalancing effect is achieved that promotes financial stability for the business. Most businesses engage in at least some form of risk management and a business that effectively manages risk is more likely to survive in the long term for the benefit of its investors its employees and its customers.

Therefore the ability to provide investment instruments of varying investment horizons and risk characteristics is highly beneficial to investors. Even more beneficial would be the ability to more precisely parse risks and other characteristics from a pool of loans so as to create investment instruments that more precisely meet the needs of investors. To the extent this is achieved homeownership rates and the economy as a whole are likely to benefit.

In the global capital markets various investment instruments have been created that provide investors with the ability to invest in instruments of varying investment horizons and risk characteristics. For example in the context of the secondary mortgage market real estate mortgage investment conduits REMIC instruments have been devised. The REMIC is a multiple class mortgage cash flow security backed residential mortgage loans which generally have been pooled together into MBS trusts. REMIC securities restructure interest and principal payments into separately traded securities. By redirecting the cash flow from the underlying standard MBS the issue can create a security having several classes also called tranches which may carry different coupon rates average lives prepayment sensitivities and final maturities. Investors with different investment horizons have the opportunity to own a tranche that satisfies their investment criteria and portfolio needs. These tranches may be designed to emphasize or deemphasize the option risk of the underlying mortgage. Therefore REMICs have provided a useful investment tool for some investors.

REMICs however are limited in terms of the number of different types of investment instruments that can be created. REMICs are created based on MBS and the typical MBS pooling process typically causes loan level cash flow data to be lost. Therefore there typically are only so many ways to carve up an MBS to achieve investment instruments characterized by different risks maturities and so on. As a result further improvements are needed.

Often in the creation of these financial assets there are involved financial and or tax accounting rules and or practices that need to be addressed in transitioning from one type of financial asset to a different type of financial asset. The accounting rules can be internal rules or practices established for improving the tracking and management of cash flows associated with the financial assets. Alternatively these accounting rules can be rules or regulations established by regulatory agencies.

Further there is also a need for tools that accommodate and account for transactions in which cash flows from borrower payments that do not pass through straight to investors or other owners of loans assets as in structured transactions. Such arrangements are often useful for providing adequate compensation to owners or other stakeholders in such loan assets or for other reasons. Even further there is a need for a system that can be used to create cash flow aggregation structures and methods of making the same. Further needed is such a system that can be tailored to comply with accounting rules or practices.

A system or method that meets one or more of these needs would be highly desirable. It should also be understood that the techniques described and claimed herein may also be applied to meet other needs instead of or in addition to the above needs. For example although the systems and methods discussed herein are described in terms of home mortgages it will be apparent that the systems and methods to other types of assets loans and or other investments.

One exemplary embodiment of the disclosure relates to a system for creating and maintaining financial assets which accentuate different types of sub loan level risk associated with a plurality of home mortgage loans and which are configured to operate as hedges against risks that oppose the different types of sub loan level risk. The system comprises a processor configured to execute computer executable instructions tangibly embodied on non transitory computer readable media. The computer executable instructions are executable by the processor to implement a decomposition tool configured to decompose each of the plurality of home mortgage loans into a plurality of sub loan level cash flows. The instructions are executable by the processor further to implement a repackaging tool configured to repackage the plurality of sub loan level cash flows to form the financial assets. Repackaging includes selecting a sub combination of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows. The sub combination of sub loan level cash flows comprise sub loan level cash flows from across the plurality of home mortgage loans and the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows exhibit heightened sensitivity to at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk relative to the sensitivity exhibited by the plurality of home mortgage loans as a whole. Repackaging further includes packaging the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows to create one of the financial assets. The financial asset that is created accentuates the at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk in accordance with the heightened sensitivity exhibited by the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows thereby configuring the financial asset to operate as a hedge against a risk that opposes the at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk. Repackaging further includes repeating the selecting and packaging steps to create additional financial assets. The additional financial assets include different financial assets which accentuate other ones of the different types of sub loan level risk. The instructions are executable by the processor further to implement a graphical user interface configured to display information on a display. The information comprises indicia representative of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows indicia representative of the financial assets and indicia representative of a relationship between the plurality of sub loan level cash flows and the financial assets including a manner in which at least some of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows that flow into the financial assets are traceable back to one or more of the plurality of home mortgage loans.

Another exemplary embodiment relates to a system for creating and maintaining financial assets which accentuate different types of sub loan level risk associated with a plurality of home mortgage loans. The plurality of home mortgage loans each have a loan asset and a servicing asset. The system comprises a processor configured to execute computer executable instructions tangibly embodied on non transitory computer readable media. The computer executable instructions are executable by the processor to implement servicer reporting logic configured to account for a compensation provided to a servicer. The servicer reporting logic is further configured to relate the compensation to the value of the home mortgage loan. Compensation provided to the servicer does not decrease through time during a term of the loan. The instructions are executable by the processor further to implement a repackaging tool configured to repackage the plurality of sub loan level cash flows to form the financial assets. Repackaging includes selecting a sub combination of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows. The sub combination of sub loan level cash flows comprises compensation provided to the servicer from across the plurality of home mortgage loans and the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows exhibits heightened sensitivity to at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk relative to the sensitivity exhibited by the plurality of home mortgage loans as a whole. Repackaging further includes packaging the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows to create a financial asset. Repackaging further includes repeating the selecting and packaging steps to create additional financial assets. The additional financial assets including different financial assets which accentuate other types of sub loan level risk. The instructions are executable by the processor further to implement a graphical user interface configured to display information on a display. The information comprises indicia representative of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows indicia representative of the financial assets and indicia representative of a relationship between the plurality of sub loan level cash flows and the financial assets including a manner in which at least some of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows that flow into the financial assets are traceable back to one or more of the plurality of home mortgage loans.

Yet another exemplary embodiment relates to a method of creating and maintaining financial assets which accentuate different types of sub loan level risk associated with a plurality of home mortgage loans and which are configured to operate as hedges against risks that oppose the different types of sub loan level risk. The method comprises decomposing using a decomposition tool each of the plurality of home mortgage loans into a plurality of sub loan level cash flows. The method further comprises repackaging using a repackaging tool the plurality of sub loan level cash flows to form the financial assets. Repackaging includes selecting a sub combination of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows. The sub combination of sub loan level cash flows comprise sub loan level cash flows from across the plurality of home mortgage loans and the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows exhibit heightened sensitivity to at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk relative to the sensitivity exhibited by the plurality of home mortgage loans as a whole. Repackaging further includes packaging the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows to create one of the financial assets. The financial asset that is created accentuates the at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk in accordance with the heightened sensitivity exhibited by the sub combination of sub loan level cash flows thereby configuring the financial asset to operate as a hedge against a risk that opposes the at least one of the different types of sub loan level risk. Repackaging further includes repeating the selecting and packaging steps to create additional financial assets. The additional financial assets include different financial assets which accentuate other ones of the different types of sub loan level risk. The method further comprises displaying using a graphical user interface information on a display. The information comprises indicia representative of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows indicia representative of the financial assets and indicia representative of a relationship between the plurality of sub loan level cash flows and the financial assets including a manner in which at least some of the plurality of sub loan level cash flows that flow into the financial assets are traceable back to one or more of the plurality of home mortgage loans.

Other principle features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the following drawings the detailed description and the appended claims.

Referring now to is a block diagram of a preferred cash flow engine and FIG. is a flowchart showing operation of the cash flow engine of . shows an arrangement in which the cash flow engine is used in connection with a plurality of loans individually labeled as Loan through Loan M and a plurality of financial assets individually labeled as Financial Asset through Financial Asset N .

In the system of each of the loans is decomposed into a plurality of sub loan level cash flows step . The decomposition may be performed by a decomposition repackaging tool described in greater detail below in response to user inputs during a loan set up procedure for example. The loans may for example be home loans or other types of loans. The cash flows may be defined the same or differently for each of the loans . The cash flows may include one or more positive cash flows associated with for example principal payments made by the borrower interest payments made by the borrower fees paid by the borrower and so on. The cash flows may also include one or more negative cash flows or reductions in positive cash flows associated with expenses or losses incurred with respect to particular loans such as when a borrower defaults. Such losses expenses are negative cash flows when considered from the perspective of the owner s of the financial assets backed by such cash flows. Preferably the decomposition is performed such that substantially all sources of potential revenue expenses for each of the plurality of loans is identified and associated with one of the cash flows .

Referring now also to exemplary cash flows according to one embodiment are shown. A cash flow may be source of payment whether of principal interest or fees received in connection with a loan. A cash flow may also be any type of expense incurred in connection with a loan. A given loan may produce positive cash flows associated with principal interest servicing fees guarantee fee mortgage insurance prepayment penalties borrower paid fees servicer advances and servicer recoveries or negative cash flows associated with loss default and REO activity 

Additionally it is also possible to aggregate cash flows from a borrower perspective or other entity perspective. For example a series of loans e.g. all to the same borrower may be aggregated into a higher order cash flow and then the aggregation of the loans may be decomposed. Also cash flows may further be derived from loans pools securities commitments and other packets. It is also possible to add cash flows to existing loans or other assets for example so that a new cash flow e.g. for a new line of credit may be established without having to set up a new loan. This latter feature provides additional flexibility to modify a borrower s loan over time.

During the decomposition of the cash flows information regarding the initial event that gave rise to the creation of cash flows is preferably tracked and stored for accounting purposes. As detailed below accounting rules are preferably applied to the financial assets e.g. packets that are backed by the sub loan level cash flows. Therefore this information may be used to properly account for the event that gave rise to creation of the cash flow such that accounting rules and regulations can be satisfied. Additionally the information may be used to determine the eligibility of cash flows for inclusion in particular types of assets based on whether the accounting rules and regulations are satisfied.

Referring again to the decomposition repackaging tool is then used to repackage the cash flows into a plurality of financial assets backed by the cash flows step . Herein the term financial asset is used generically to refer to any asset that is backed by one or more cash flows and includes such things as assets that are created entirely for internal data tracking purposes e.g. in the case of packets which do not represent securities as well as assets that have external significance e.g. in the case of MBS or other financial instruments . The financial assets may each backed by one or a combination of the cash flows identified above. It may be noted that the financial instruments are preferably created such that the collateral for the financial instruments is the plurality of sub loan level cash flows and not the plurality of loans . Also it is not necessary to securitize the loans and then create financial instruments by performing strips of the security the financial instruments may be backed directly by the cash flows . Such financial assets may be held in the portfolio of for example the owner operator of the cash flow engine or may be sold to a third party investor.

It is possible to use the cash flow engine to create a variety of financial instruments backed by the loan level cash flows which is particularly useful in a situation where the financial asset is a financial instrument configured for sale to a third party investor. As previously indicated in the past loans have been pooled to form MBS. The cash flow engine is capable of creating such MBS as well as other types of financial instruments. The financial instruments may be pass through type instruments such as MBS or structured instruments such as debt instruments subordinated debt unsecured corporate debt callable debt securities bonds etc. options swaps insurance policies or other instruments where the connection of the asset to the cash flow is less direct than in a pass through instrument. Any combination of one or more cash flows may be selected to create a financial asset. Preferably such cash flows are aggregated with like cash flows from other loans in creating the financial asset. For example a financial instrument may be created that is backed only by one or more specific types of borrower paid fees and not by principal and interest. The financial instruments may be constructed so as to accentuate or deaccentuate specific types of risk e.g. credit risk . The financial instruments may have different risks payment profiles depending on which of the cash flows shown in Table I backs the financial instrument. Such financial instruments may be used to transfer interest rate risk credit risk and other types of risk to third party investors and provide the third party investors with the opportunity to pursue more aggressive risk profiles and thereby greater potential yields.

For example the cash flow engine may be used to issue non guaranteed corporate debt backed by one or more of the cash flows . Therefore for example it is possible to create financial instruments that transfer risk in the form of debt to a third party investor and reward the third party investor for taking on such risk. Thus for example a debt instrument may be constructed in which the investor is paid with cash flows derived from principal payments in connection with a group of loans but a credit loss trigger may be included in which the investor is no longer paid if credit losses exceed a certain level. Such an arrangement is advantageous for the investor because the investor is rewarded for assuming the credit risk associated with the loans. The trigger events used in constructing such debt instruments may be directly related to the group of loans or may be related to some other event.

As another example financial instruments may be created that are based on special loan programs. For example for borrowers having marginal credit a loan program may reward such borrowers with a reduced interest rate after such borrowers have made a certain number loan payments in a timely manner e.g. a reduction from 7.5 to 6.5 . The potential that the borrower will make timely payments and reduce the cash flows associated with their loan represents a risk that may be sold to a third party investor. For example for a group of loans consisting of such loans a first financial instrument may be created that is backed by the underlying 6.5 interest rate and a second financial instrument may be created that is backed by the additional 1 portion of the interest rate that is subject to elimination after the loan payments are made in a timely manner. The first financial instrument therefore would be relatively insensitive to the risk associated with the reward program whereas the second financial instrument would have an enhanced sensitivity to such risk. Depending on the portfolio needs of a particular investor the second financial instrument may fit within the investor s portfolio for example by serving as a hedge against other risks.

Many different risk transfer mechanisms may be created using one or more of the different possible cash flow identified in Table I. The cash flows can be decomposed to any desired level of granularity. Due to the high level of granularity of the cash flows can be identified e.g. as in Table I and due to the fact that different cash flows represent different types of risk it is possible to parse out risks from loans with a high degree of precision and transfer those risks to investors with specific investment needs.

The cash flow engine may also be used to create financial instruments that serve other purposes other than transferring risk. Thus as yet another example when a lender sells a loan to a secondary market participant oftentimes the lender will retain a portion of the interest as a servicing fee. In some instances the servicing fee that is charged to a borrower is in excess of the amount that the Internal Revenue Service considers to be a core servicing fee. The core servicing fee is the portion of the servicing fee charged to the borrower that the lender can retain as compensation and still have the sale of the loan be considered a sale for tax purposes. Therefore in order to receive favorable tax treatment for the sale of the loan lenders typically will retain only the core servicing fee and the excess servicing fee the remainder of the servicing fee charged to the borrower is sold to the purchaser. In some instances it may be desirable to create a financial instrument that is backed by the excess servicing fee in order to optimize the value that is received for this fee.

As yet another example financial instruments may be created that correct certain anomalies that may exist in certain situations. For example with regard to servicing fees there is a mismatch between the manner in which servicers are paid and the servicers cost structure. Servicers typically retain a portion of the interest that is paid by a borrower each month as compensation for performing the servicing function. Because the interest portion of a borrower s monthly payment decreases each month as equity increases the servicer s compensation also decreases incrementally each month. However the cost of servicing loans does not decrease each month particularly when costs associated with defaulted loans are taken into account. Therefore it is possible to repackage the cash flows from the underlying loans to create a payment structure for the servicer that is more closely aligned with the servicers cost structure.

In order to assist with the generation of such financial instruments and other assets the cash flow engine may also be coupled to financial engineering tools step which are tools usable by an operator to analyze design develop and or implement the financial assets and or related processes. For example the financial engineering tools may be computer implemented tools usable for analyzing financial data assessing and predicting financial performance valuing financial assets analyzing financial risk and so on regarding the loans the financial assets and or the cash flows . To this end the financial engineering tools preferably include tools responsive to operator inputs for creating and displaying interactive graphs and other visual representations of financial data using mathematical models and simulations. Such models and simulations may be constructed using the financial engineering tools and may take into account market conditions contract terms and other factors with different models being available for different financial instruments to allow the model that best represents market dynamics and other factors such as contract terms to be selected.

Additionally certain accounting rules may apply that may affect the manner in which cash flows may be most optimally stripped and the manner in which financial assets may be most optimally created. In the above example where it is desirable to create a financial asset based on the servicing fees for a loan or a collection of loans accounting rules may apply that state that the servicing fees cash flow is an interest strip and must be accounted for as an interest only strip. An interest only strip is a type of strip that subjects the cash flow to derivative accounting meaning that a lender must recognize gains or losses when the market value of the underlying asset increases or decreases in value. Therefore the financial engineering tools preferably include tools usable to assess financial risk predict financial performance and so on of financial assets in view of such accounting rules.

Referring now also to after the financial assets are created using the decomposition repackaging tool payments in connection with the financial assets are funded by the cash flows from the loans . For example in the case of an investment instrument that has been sold to a third party investor the cash flows may be used to fund payments to the investor either on a straight pass through basis or on a structured basis depending on the type of financial instrument created .

The cash flow engine includes accounting reporting tools which receives payment information regarding incoming cash flows associated with the loans step . The payment information may be received from a computer system that supports loan servicing. The payment information may for example include information regarding scheduled principal payments made by the borrower unscheduled principal payments made by the borrower interest payments made by the borrower fees paid by the borrower and so on. The borrower payments are then decomposed into the various defined cash flows step . If the computer system that performs loan servicing supports such reporting the payment information may be received in a more granular form and include information regarding each of the cash flows processed by the cash flow engine . Otherwise the information regarding such cash flows may be computed by the cash flow engine based on the information reported by the servicing computer system. The payment information is then processed in accordance with stored mapping information regarding the manner in which cash flows flowing into the financial assets are traceable back to the cash flows . Thus after the mapping information is accessed portions of the loan payments corresponding to the level cash flows for each of the loans are repackaged and allocated to a respective one of the financial assets based on the mapping information step . As a result information regarding investment proceeds due to the owner s of the financial assets is generated and the owner s of the financial assets may be paid with funds derived from the loan payments and in accordance with the repackaging of the cash flows to the respective ones of the financial assets step .

According to an exemplary embodiment the accounting reporting tools apply accounting rules directly to the financial assets even though many of the financial assets are not necessarily loans or securities. As has been described the financial assets are created by repackaging the cash flows . The accounting treatment that is given to each financial asset depends on the nature of the cash flows which back the particular financial asset. For example if a plurality of cash flows derived from borrowers in connection with a corresponding plurality of different loans is repackaged to form one of the financial assets and the nature of the cash flows requires interest only accounting then that financial asset may be accounted for as an interest only strip. Thus for each of the financial assets the nature of the cash flows that are repackaged to form the financial asset is analyzed to determine the proper accounting treatment for the financial asset . After the appropriate accounting treatment is determined typically during steps accounting calculations may be performed during the life of the financial asset in accordance with the determined appropriate accounting treatment. To this end the accounting reporting tools therefore preferably includes tools for performing typical accounting calculations such as present value depreciation and so on. Additionally the payment information received by accounting reporting tools includes information pertinent to accounting such as information concerning the origin and timing of the payments or other cash flows and other relevant information.

Thus the cash flow engine permits the financial engineering tools to be used in connection with the purchasing and repackaging of loan assets into financial instruments. Particularly each of the loans has associated with it a number of different cash flows which are parsed and reconfigured into a variety of different financial instruments . The cash flow engine decomposes each loan into its constituent parts and allows financial engineering tools to be applied at the loan level rather than only at the pool level. Additionally the cash flow engine is able to process cash flow information at a much higher level of granularity than has been possible in the past. For example not only is the cash flow engine able to track interest payments from each loan but the interest payments may be subdivided into constituent cash flows such as servicing fees G fees and pass through interest. The cash flow engine also recognizes the existence of other types of cash flows which have not traditionally been viewed as cash flows that could accrue to an investor e.g. late fees prepayment penalty fees and so on . The cash flow engine is also recognizes the existence of negative cash flows e.g. in situations where a borrower defaults on the loan .

These features provide greater flexibility in creating financial instruments and allow more optimal financial instruments to be created. In particular financial instruments may be created that are more optimally aligned with what the purchaser wishes to purchase.

The cash flow engine also provides benefits even in situations where the financial instruments are not sold to external investors. For example a holder of loan assets may use the cash flow engine and the financial engineering tools to examine loan assets at a high level of specificity and granularity. The cash flow engine provides the ability to more precisely track risks monitor performance and perform other detailed analysis in connection with various aspects of the plurality of loans . This allows the investor to obtain a better understanding of how the loan assets performed which would in turn would allow the investor to make better decisions about which assets to buy in the future.

Additionally the high level of data granularity allows more accounting information to be associated with each of the cash flows . This accounting information aids in compliance with accounting rules and regulations. The information further aids the user in tracking cash flows for internal accounting to optimize analysis of processes and cash flows.

Referring now to an example of a cash flow decomposition repackaging operation that may be performed by the cash flow engine is illustrated. Although the cash flow repackaging operation is shown in connection with one of the loans shown in it will be appreciated that similar operations are also performed with respect to other ones of the loans shown in .

In the example of the loan has a scheduled principal cash flow an unscheduled principal cash flow an LPT or lender pass through portion of the interest rate cash flow and a guarantee fee G fee cash flow . The scheduled principal cash flow the unscheduled principal cash flow and the G fee cash flow are represented as being unallocated. The LPT cash flow shown to be 6.5 adjustable rate interest is represented as being 100 allocated between a residual cash flow and an IPT or investor pass through portion of the interest rate cash flow . The portion of the cash flow which is allocated to the IPT cash flow is 300 bps fixed rate interest the remainder is allocated to the residual cash flow . The IPT cash flow is 100 allocated to a packet . The packet may then be used to back a financial instrument or may be further decomposed in generally the same manner that the cash flow is decomposed. In other words the decomposition repackaging may be performed both regard to the loan and other financial assets to create multiple layers of cash flow decomposition repackaging. It is thus seen that complete flexibility is achieved in the manner in which cash flows may be decomposed and repackaged to form financial instruments or other financial assets.

Referring now to another example of a cash flow decomposition repackaging operation that may be performed by the cash flow engine is illustrated. In the example of the loan has a scheduled principal cash flow an unscheduled principal cash flow an LPT cash flow and a gross servicing fee cash flow . The cash flows are unallocated. The gross servicing fee cash flow is shown to be 0.35 fixed rate is represented as being 100 allocated between a fixed 50 servicing fee cash flow and a residual cash flow . The fixed servicing fee cash flow is 100 allocated to a packet . The packet is a financial asset in the form of a fixed 50 month servicing fee.

Thus the arrangement of may be used to address the above mentioned problem regarding compensation structures for servicers. Specifically in conventional mortgage products the loan asset comprises a right to receive loan payments including a principal payment portion and an interest payment portion from a borrower in connection with the loan. The servicing asset comprises a right to receive a servicing fee portion of the interest payment portion in exchange for performing servicing of the loan. However as the unpaid principal balance of the loan decreases the servicing fee portion of each loan payment also decreases even though the costs of servicing loans typically increases on average further into the term of the loan.

Pursuant to the arrangement of a secondary market participant e.g. an investor in loans may acquire a home mortgage loan having a loan asset and a servicing asset. The secondary market participant then repackages the cash flows associated with the loans to create a modified servicing fee packet which provides a different compensation structure for the servicer than the servicing fee portion of the loan payment. The secondary market participant then subcontracts responsibility for performing servicing of the loan to a servicer and compensates the servicer with the modified servicing fee. Alternatively rather than subcontracting servicing the secondary market participant could also resell the servicing asset to the servicer in a modified form in which the servicing asset permits the servicer to retain the modified servicing fee. Either way the servicer performs servicing of the loan during the term of the loan and receives the modified servicing fee as compensation. As illustrated the compensation provided to the servicer does not decrease through time during the term of the loan but rather is fixed e.g. a 50 monthly payment . Alternatively the modified servicing fee may be constructed so as to increase during the term of the loan. In practice given that it is the servicer that receives loan payments from the borrower compensating the servicer may simply comprise permitting the servicer to retain its compensation from payments received by the servicer from a borrower before the payments are aggregated and forwarded to the secondary market participant. Thus the arrangement of produces a payment structure that is more closely aligned with the servicers cost structure addressing the servicer cost structure problem previously described.

It may also be noted that over time when the gross servicing fee cash flow portion of the loan payment becomes less than 50 due to increased equity the residual cash flow will become a negative cash flow. The negative cash flow operates to reduce other positive cash flows not shown in an amount necessary to provide the servicer with a fixed 50 month servicing fee even though interest payments on the loan are decreasing. Notably therefore the system is capable of tracking negative cash flows.

Preferably in this arrangement additional accounting information is tracked to properly account for the underlying assets. For example the value of the gross servicing fee cash flow portion of the loan payment may need to be related to the value of the loan from which it originates to properly satisfy accounting rules. Accordingly this information may be analyzed and tracked by the accounting reporting tools to facilitate accounting.

Referring now to another example of a cash flow repackaging operation that may be performed by the cash flow engine is illustrated. In the example of the loan has a scheduled principal cash flow an unscheduled principal cash flow a LPT cash flow and a G fee cash flow . The cash flows and are 100 allocated to a packet . The cash flow is unallocated. The cash flow is 100 allocated to a residual cash flow and a IPT cash flow which is 100 allocated to the packet . The packet may receive similar cash flows from other ones of the loans . The packet is decomposed to produce a scheduled principal cash flow an unscheduled principal cash flow and a IPT cash flow each of which is shown as being unallocated.

Referring now to in order to perform cash flow decomposition and repackaging during loan asset set up a graphical user interface GUI may be used that displays decomposition and repackaging information to a user and receives operator inputs used in creating modifying relationships between loans cash flows and assets. Such a GUI may comprise an operator input interface e.g. program logic that receive operator inputs using a suitable input devices e.g. keyboard mouse and so on and a display interface e.g. program logic that drives an output device e.g. computer display to display indicia regarding the loans the assets and the cash flows in tabular iconic block diagram or other formats.

For example in one embodiment the graphical user interface is organized in a manner generally similar to . Thus is the same as except that reference numbers have been changed such that a description of an exemplary GUI may be given. The GUI comprises a display interface which displays indicia icon representative a home mortgage loan indicia e.g. icons representative of the cash flows indicia e.g. icons representative of the plurality of financial assets and indicia e.g. lines extending between the icons representative of a manner in which cash flows that flow into the financial assets are traceable back to one or more of the plurality of home mortgage loans . Other information may also be displayed. For example in the illustrated embodiment information regarding an extent to which individual ones of the cash flows have been allocated e.g. 100 used to the financial assets . Additionally the icons may also be displayed in a manner e.g. different colors different symbology and so on that provides additional information regarding the type of loan cash flow or asset that the icon is intended to represent.

As numerous decomposition repackaging operations are performed for multiple loans and multiple financial assets different icons are displayed that represent the different loans the different cash flows and the different assets. Such information may be either displayed simultaneously or at different times on different display screens depending on how much information it is considered desirable to provide operator with at once. The operator input interface then receives operator inputs which define the manner in which each of the loan are to be decomposed into the cash flows and the manner in which the cash flows are to be repackaged to form the financial assets . For example the operator interface may receive inputs identifying specific loans for decomposition cash flows that are to be decomposed the allocation of the cash flows from one or more loans to one or more specific assets the allocation of cash flows between assets and so on. The operator inputs may also be used in connection with sifting logic and sorting logic. As will be described in below sifting logic is provides a mechanism by which users can examine the entire collateral universe and pair down to smaller groupings of collateral or assets within the universe and sorting logic provides a mechanism by which user may group the subset of collateral identified in the sifting process and organize it by a single or multiple attributes to further refine the pool of candidate collateral to be placed into a potential packet.

Referring now to exemplary embodiments of a packet system and related methods will now be described. These exemplary embodiments describe the creation maintenance and dissolution of cash flow aggregation structures or packets. Such a structure includes a mapping of asset cash flows to a higher order and the effective dates for those mappings. The cash flow aggregation structures and methods can be implemented in a wide variety of different ways. Various embodiments may include for example packets with other types of attributes or packets formed in other ways than those described.

In the preferred system of a packet is an aggregation or packaging of cash flows that is treated as an entity separate and distinct from the incoming cash flows that support it and from the cash flows that result from it. The packet can be used for both the collection and distribution of data and monies. Although exemplary embodiments described herein use the term packet to refer to the distribution or re distribution of cash flows after their collection the interpretation of packet should not be limited by the examples provided.

Packets provide data integrity of underlying reported assets and create an information chain that maps to a higher order form of recognized asset. The source data for packets may be loan level or packet level information and the packets themselves may represent actual securities or just a unit of reporting and remittance.

Besides capturing the relationship between sources of cash flow and the packaging thereof a packet also tracks certain descriptive data about itself. For example a packet has information about its own attributes the disposition of its cash flows and any reported output including disclosure data. Additionally a packet describes its process behavior which may be derived from external business rules. These business rules may be standard as would be the case for mortgage backed security packets or they may apply to a specific packet as might happen in a structured transaction . Sources of incoming cash flows to a packet may be loan remittances percentages of loan remittances pool distributions percentages of pool distributions securities or other types of synthetic or real assets.

Packets provide a data map that permits inspection of loan assets and securities assets when data exists at both levels. The ability to create and manipulate packets enables the creation of new types of financial products. Packets also improve the processing of transactions and support of new types of transactions within the secondary market.

By way of example illustrates a packet including a packaging of cash flows. The packet can include packet type information packet state information asset information asset type information information regarding allocation of cash flows from asset and effective date information .

The packet type information indicates the type of financial asset associated with the packet for example the packet may be associated with an OOP out of portfolio pool MBS pool lender formed MBS pools Mega Choice pools Majors Pseudo pool Reference pool excess servicing strip excess deficit yield stripped loan or other type of structure. The packet type information may also describe for example who is expected to initiate the creation of this packet type how the packet to be created attributes required for creation of the packet minimum set of disclosure data packet statistics estimated frequency of creation rules for dissolving the packet if the packet is in production necessary accounting events and system s responsible for performing roll up of the packet. The packet type helps determine which business rules to apply. The packet type further enables the accounting reporting tools to make a determination as to which accounting rules to apply.

The packet state information indicates whether for example the packet is at a pre packet pending packet or production packet stage. The asset information indicates a set of assets such as loan interest loan principal loan principal etc. The asset type information indicates the underlying asset type e.g. loan MBS etc. The information regarding allocation of cash flows from asset indicates for example the money amount percentage allocation or basis point amount of the cash flow. The effective date information indicates the effective dates for the participation of each cash flow in the packet.

Although several specific attributes are described as composing packet additional fewer or different attributes may be used for packet creation. Examples of additional attributes can include applicable business rules alternate exception flow additional reporting disclosure requirements additional accounting components ticker symbol and conduit tagging specification for underlying cash flows and or assets.

By way of another example illustrates a packet including a header a map process instructions and output requirements . The header includes packet header data such as creation purpose and transaction information. More specifically packet header data in the header can include packet ID unique packet type packet state date of when packet was created time of when packet was created user System ID of creator of packet and an indicator of whether the packet represents a security or is merely a reporting entity.

The map includes information on cash flow and disclosure issues such as an identifier a cash flow quantity a disclosure basis quantity and a date in. Two exemplary ways in which the map for a packet can be formed are GUI graphical user interface based mapping and GUI less mapping. The GUI based mapping occurs when a user accesses a sift sort screen to identify collateral. Once the collateral assets have been identified the next step is to bring up a packet detail mapping GUI in which the user can select the specific sources of cash flow and quantities thereof to be added to the designated packet. These functions may be included as functions that may be performed by the GUI described above.

The GUI less mapping occurs when all the required elements of a packet are present. Accordingly no GUI is needed to build the detailed packet map. In such scenario a template by transaction type is used to set the default values in the resulting packet. This concept is described below.

A transaction type describes what type of business event is occurring most often but not always indicating what type of security is being created. Transaction types can include MBS ABS REMIC Whole Loan REMIC Excess Servicing Strip Grantor Trust Structured Transaction undifferentiated Credit Linked Note SMBS stripped MBS Whole Loan Sale or Loan Strip.

The GUI for packet detail mapping contains a list of possible sources of cash flow and allows users to designate the quantity of each to be packetized. The possible sources of cash flow are derived from the nature of the underlying asset s . If the collateral asset is another packet only those cash flows that are included in the collateral packet and therefore available for re packeting are displayed. If the asset is a mortgage loan then loan level cash flows are displayed. If possible the screen derives which cash flows are available at the loan level based on what is or will be reported by the servicer. It is also possible that certain types of cash flows may be deemed unavailable for inclusion in the packet based on the accounting or business rules that are applicable to the cash flows.

In addition to selecting the cash flows to be placed in the packet users can select the quantity to be packetized. Packet detail mapping templates are performed for different types of packets based on transaction type. These templates store defaults for the cash flow elements and their quantities values. For example if the packet type is MBS Pool the template automatically defaults the quantities of SCHEDULED UPB unpaid balance to 100 SCHEDULED PRINCIPAL to 100 UNSCHEDULED PRINCIPAL to 100 and SCHEDULED INTEREST to the logical value given the target pass thru rate of the MBS. If the transaction type is Whole Loan REMIC or Excess Servicing Fee Strip different templates with different default values are called.

In addition to mapping cash flow elements the transaction type default template has a list of default disclosure reports. If an individual request to create a packet does not specify disclosure report types this service assigns the disclosure reports for a given packet based on the defaults for the specified transaction type. The disclosure reports preferably include information to facilitate accounting for the packet to be created based on the accounting information received for the cash flows incorporated in the packet. For example where the cash flow is considered a derivative cash flow the accounting value of the packet may be determined based upon the value of the underlying asset from which the cash flow originates.

The GUI for mapping the data gives users the ability to map cash flows and quantities identically for all assets for selected groups of assets or one by one for individual assets. This GUI also allows users to specify quantities in a variety of formats as specified values as percentages in basis points bps for interest related cash flow sources only or as a formula. An example of the latter would be in an excess servicing fee strip where the quantity of servicing fee to be packeted could be expressed as all SF 25 bps at the loan level. Results of this GUI will be used to form the PACKET DATA USE MAP that completes the packet definition in the illustrated embodiment.

The process instructions include information on cash flow processing such as roll up frequency payment and payoff activity cutoff roll up business rules and applicable accounting rules. The output requirements include information on cash flow output such as output reporting accounting reporting release date and public or private status. Additional information can be included in the packet .

After operation a step is performed in which loan asset eligibility business rules are applied. Such rules provide a set of filters that override user defined characteristics used in the sift and sort process. For example a business rule may be that no more than 10 of loans can be relocation loans. Such a rule would place a limit on loan assets collected in the packet creation process.

In a step detailed cash flows are mapped and in a step packet creation business rules are applied. These results can be persisted in a database and the accounting and disclosure operations applied. The user can append or relax certain business rules specific to a deal based on Deal ID.

Non portfolio packet cash flows and assets can be analyzed with standard edits for completeness. Selected cash flows and assets are checked to ensure that they are not being used by another packet. Cash flows and assets may be reviewed under the edits and eligibility rules for packetization specific rules vary according to packet type and may be specific to a single packet . Selected cash flows and assets may be selected that are in production. Cash flows and assets may pass any additional business rules not covered by the eligibility rules. The cash flows that pass the rules are eligible to belong to the packet. Status of underlying cash flows and assets may then be appropriately updated based on packet state. Allocations of available cash flows may also be appropriately updated to reflect portions of cash flows no longer available. Accounting treatments of underlying cash flows and assets may also be updated if necessary. Proper book and tax accounting for production packets may also occur. Appropriate disclosure reports may also be generated. Statistics for the packet may also be calculated roll up .

In certain situations packets may need to be modified such as another user requiring a cash flow that is already in a pre packet. Types of modifications to packets include removal of underlying cash flows substitution of cash flows and addition of cash flows. When a packet is modified it goes through a subset of the steps required for packet creation. Production packets can require additional reporting logging and accounting steps.

Different types of updates can be applied to packets at different states. For example modifications to selected assets made before the packet detailed map is created are local updates. Modifications made after the packet detailed map is created but while the packet is still in pending status are most likely to be triggered as a result of lender activity. Users may add remove or substitute loans and or cash flows in a pending packet. Modifications made to a production packet can be triggered by an attribute change processor which in the illustrated embodiment is part of the system described below in connection with . Events such as BuyUp BuyDown Dissolves and Loan Substitutions can trigger a packet modification event.

If a cash flow is added removed or substituted in essence removed the following actions happen on that cash flow. First the status of underlying cash flows and assets is appropriately updated based on packet state. Conduit codes of underlying cash flows and assets are updated if necessary. The cash flow link to the packet is removed.

Following the cash flow updates the following events occur on the newly formed packet. First added cash flows and assets pass standard edits for completeness. Next the packet s cash flows and assets are checked to ensure that they are still eligible for packetization e.g. another packet has not used them . Cash flows and assets pass the edits and eligibility rules for packetization specific rules vary according to packet type .

As previously noted accounting reporting tools apply applicable accounting rules to the packets to determine accounting reporting and actions. The origin and nature of the underlying cash flows are included in information associated with the packet to facilitate application of the accounting rules.

Cash flows and assets can be reviewed to ascertain whether they pass any additional business rules not covered by the eligibility rules. Proper book and tax accounting for production packets occur and appropriate reports are generated. Finally statistics for the packet are re calculated in a process referred to as roll up .

Packet dissolution arises from the same triggers as described with respect to packet modifications. In dissolving non production packets the underlying cash flows and assets have their status and conduit codes appropriately updated and their links to the packet are removed. In essence those cash flows are now available for use by another packet. The steps can include updating the status of underlying cash flows and assets updating the conduit codes of underlying cash flows and assets removing the cash flow link to the packet marking the packet as having a state of Dissolved.

In an exemplary embodiment the process of securitizing a packet occurs between the pending and production states and includes these functions set up and assigning of pool number and or CUSIP determination of issue date settlement and issuance of the packet accounting for production packets and generating appropriate disclosure documentation and reports.

Roll up takes the information contained in the packet and calculates summary cash flows investor payments as well as statistics about the packet. An example list of attributes resulting from the roll up function include the calculation of UPB unpaid principal balance of the packet WAC weighted average coupon or note rate of underlying mortgage loans WAM weighted average maturity of underlying mortgage loans WALA weighted average loan age of underlying mortgage loans WALT weighted average loan term at origination of underlying mortgage loans and GEODIST geographical distribution of underlying mortgage loans . Not all of these attributes may be appropriate and what is calculated depends on the packet type. For packets that represent securities such calculations will facilitate investor disclosure on a periodic basis.

Referring to a packet creation system is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment there are three main states that a packet can be in a pre packets state a pending packets state and a production packets state . Each of the saved versions is considered a pre packet. Additionally if a user sets up an Auto Sift the underlying cash flows that meet the sift criteria are placed in a pre packet.

When the user decides that a given pre packet is to be securitized he she can move the packet into the pending packet state . If the pending packet meets all of the necessary criteria it can then be moved to the production packet state .

A pre packet is a packet that has been created but has not been confirmed as a pending packet or production packet. The cash flows or items contained in the packet are tagged as having a status of Hold so that other users are aware that the underlying items in the packet are being considered for production use.

Items contained in a pre packet have a Hold status. If an item is tagged as having a status of Hold it is visible to other users while they model the packet. Additionally the person and the date and time in which that item was placed on Hold are persisted and available through the user interface. However the cash flow or item cannot have a Hold status to be included other packets.

Under most circumstances only the user that placed the cash flow item on hold is allowed to remove the Hold status. However in case of emergencies a supervisor or designated super user can have over ride capabilities to remove the Hold status. In this case the user that placed the cash flow item on hold is notified by email or page of this change.

The pending packet state is the state right before a packet becomes a production packet. The purpose of the pending packet state is to lock the cash flows while necessary edits checks and approvals are being performed before the packet is ready to become a production packet. The underlying cash flows of a pending packet are labeled with a status of Locked and are therefore not available in the Sift Sort tool for inclusion in the creation of other packets.

Items contained in pending packets have a Locked status. If an item is tagged as having a status of Locked it is not be available for Sift Sort and cannot be included in other packets. Items placed in a Locked status are limited in what can be done to them in that they are not available for Sift Sort or Packeting. If an item belongs to a pending packet it is possible to change the status from Locked to Hold or removing the Locked status altogether easily.

A production packet can be considered the most restrictive of the three packet types. Like the name states a production packet is a packet that has been moved to production and has been securitized. The underlying cash flows of a production packet are labeled with a status of Locked and are therefore not available for Sift Sort.

Editing and dissolving production packets can be detailed complex and secure transactions. In order to edit or dissolve a production packet the user has special permissions and the transactions have multiple control points. The creation editing and dissolution of production packets cause accounting events to occur.

Items contained in the production packets state have a Production status. If an item is tagged as having a status of Production it is not available for Sift Sort and cannot be included in other packets. Items placed in a Production status are limited in what can be done to them in that they are not available for sift sort or packeting. Guidelines with regards to changing the status from Production following a dissolution or change to a production packet are governed by the rules of the packet type.

If a packet is dissolved its state is marked as Dissolved. Information as to the user date and time that the packet was dissolved shall be stored. The effective dates are also stored as this determines when the asset cash flows become available again.

At time of packet creation much packet data defaults to a transaction type that the packet is being created for. However a packet structure that is able to identify and handle exceptions to these defaults is needed to accommodate custom transactions Packets have a minimum required set of attributes along with a variety of additional attributes. Table II illustrates the kinds of data in an exemplary packet 

Table II reflects that a packet may store several pieces of information pertaining to its creation such as what business rules were applied. Note also that the packet references predefined reports which are defined elsewhere and supplies the basis for computation in those reports e.g. use 100 of UPB when computing WAC and WAM in the Bond Buyer report .

Some packets are associated with loan level cash flows. A packet or in some cases a chain of packets describes how the underlying loan assets are associated with a finished deal related product. However to be fully useful to downstream processes some data decomposition or internal re mapping may have to be applied first. Some of the data decomposition steps can precede packet creation and rollup converting loan level data reported by lenders into a form useful to downstream processes. Data decomposition is not just related to packets it is also necessary for accounting analysis and reporting. In cases where the internal use of lender reported inbound data differs from its use within a packet data re mapping is required for roll up. In some cases this re mapping may occur on a transaction specific basis and therefore be a by product of the same event that also resulted in the creation of a packet. It also is possible that re mapping is required several times as an asset is associated with additional transactions over time such as MBS to Mega to REMIC.

Referring again to when the decision is made to securitize a packet the packet moves to the pending packet state and the underlying assets get a status of Locked. A Pending Packet can be elevated to a Production Packet once all of the necessary steps have been taken. Assets remain Locked following a state change to Production. Alternatively the packet could be dissolved in which case the assets are freed up for another packet to use. Packet dissolution can also happen from the pre packet state . If an OOP Production Packet is dissolved for example its assets may become available for use by another packet. When lender formed packets are dissolved the assets are normally returned to the lender.

If a user decides that he she wishes to create a Packet the user is allowed to create a pre packet. The pre packet places the underlying cash flows or items on Hold in addition to storing all of the information that is stored by a version defined above. Preferably there is only be one pre packet created for a given session. If a user decides that he she wants to packetize a version that is being worked on but he she already has a pre packet he she is asked to dissolve the previous pre packet. Previously created pre packets are dissolved before a version is available for packetization. Additionally versions are allowed to view cash flows that have a Hold status if the Hold status was placed by a packet created in the same session.

Referring now to a computer system usable to implement the cash flow engine and packeting systems described above is shown. The computer system is described in greater detail in System and Method for Processing Data Pertaining to Financial Assets Ser. No. 10 331 811 filed simultaneously herewith hereby incorporated by reference.

As shown in the system comprises a data processing system user systems bulk data systems and other data interfaces . The data processing system further comprises user services logic a transaction processor underwriting logic acquisition logic servicer and investor reporting logic securitization logic common services logic a data storage system and other data interfaces . Although the term logic is used in connection with some blocks and the term processor is used in connection with other blocks these two terms are used interchangeably. The term processor is used in the generic sense and is not meant to imply a separate discrete unit of processing hardware.

The data processing system is configured for processing data pertaining to financial assets such as loans and securities. In one embodiment the data processing system is configured to be used by a participant in the secondary mortgage market. Herein for convenience the participant is referred to as a purchaser although it should be understood that the purchaser may participate in the secondary market in other different or additional ways e.g. as a loan guarantor as a loan securitizer and so on .

The data processing system is preferably usable to support various types of transactions which may be executed by such a purchaser in connection with one or more loans. For example the purchaser may purchase loans from lenders or other loan originators as part of a cash execution. The purchased loans may for example be held as investments in the purchaser s investment portfolio. Alternatively the purchaser may create mortgage backed securities MBS as part of an MBS execution or create other financial instruments or assets that are backed by cash flows associated with individual loans including both loans that have been purchased by the purchaser and other loans that have not been purchased by the purchaser. For example in the case of MBS the purchaser may acquire a pool of loans securitize the pool of loans to create MBS that is then sold to investors and hold the pool of loans in trust for the benefit of the investors. The purchaser may also receive a fee for guaranteeing to holders of MBS or other financial instruments the repayment of the loans by borrowers. The purchaser may also use loans to create other types of financial assets or instruments for example by purchasing loans and selling the financial instruments to investors or by performing such services for other owners of loan assets.

The acquisition logic is preferably usable to perform such operations as receiving information such as loan term interest rate principal owed and other parameters regarding loans when loans are first purchased or otherwise acquired and entered into the data processing system . In the case of cash executions the acquisition logic is also used to perform such operations as receiving commitments for the purchased loans.

The servicer and investor reporting logic is used to perform loan accounting and generate accounting output in connection with the purchased loans. Herein the terms reporting logic and servicer and investor reporting logic are used interchangeably and both refer to logic that is configured to perform loan accounting and generate accounting output e.g. for purposes of investor reporting for purposes of managing a loan portfolio and so on in connection with a plurality of loans. The servicer and investor reporting logic preferably performs such functions as receiving loan payment data on an ongoing basis from third party servicers. In this regard it may be noted that the servicer and investor reporting logic in the illustrated embodiment is not used for servicing loans directly but rather merely interfaces with loan servicing logic provided by a third party servicer. Of course the servicer and investor reporting logic could also be configured to include additional logic for servicing loans either as part of the servicer and investor reporting logic or as part of another functional block. The accounting output generated by the servicer and investor reporting logic may include such things as accounting tax performance valuation and or other relevant financial information for the loans in the portfolio.

The servicer and investor reporting logic includes loan process and compare LPC logic which monitors and verifies the activities of third party mortgage servicers on an ongoing basis. The logic includes logic that implements the accounting reporting tools of . The LPC logic performs processing related to decomposing borrower payments into sub loan level cash flows in accordance with the CFAS maps discussed above in connection with . Thus the LPC logic performs such operations as receiving and validating reporting information pertaining to loan activity loan delinquency information and unpaid balance comparison reported by the servicer updating the records of the data processing system regarding the status of all reported loans and determining the remittance and disbursement amounts that are expected for the loans. The LPC logic also computes and monitors cash flows entering into the packets.

The servicer and investor reporting logic also includes securities aggregation and management SAM logic which receives the loan level cash flow information produced by the LPC logic and aggregates this cash flow information to produce security level information and generate disclosure reports. The SAM logic performs processing related to the PCFA maps discussed above in connection with . The SAM logic is capable of processing and managing any grouping of loans cash flows from loans and other financial instruments. Using a packet activity processor the SAM logic determines the loans in a given pool repackages cash flows based on the pool and loan level attributes for all the loans and then updates the system database. The packet activity processor has the flexibility to repackage loan level cash flows at the most granular level to security level enabling the SAM logic to also manage specific cash flow strips e.g. access yield strips interest only strips . At the end of appropriate processing periods the SAM logic finalizes the relevant security information. The SAM logic then uses a packet disclosure processor to make final remittance level principal and interest guaranty fee and other draft amounts and security accounting data available to other components the data processing system . The SAM logic also includes packet modification request processing logic which is used to modify packets.

The securitization logic is used to generate financial assets and includes logic that implements the decomposition repackaging tool described above in connection with . Herein the terms financial asset generation logic and securitization logic are used interchangeably and refer to any logic that is used to generate create financial assets. The securitization logic may be used to generate financial assets such as MBS debt instruments or any of the other types of financial instruments described herein. The securitization logic may be used to generate financial assets that are tracked internally in situations where the owner operator of the data processing system purchases a pool of loans and holds the loans as an investment in its own portfolio.

The common services logic includes a rules engine. The rules engine comprises a series of business rules used in decomposing and repackaging cash flows and performing other loan processing.

Preferably operators access the data processing system through the Internet by using a personal laptop computer or other suitable Internet enabled device. For example the data processing system may be accessible to users by visiting an internal web site of the entity that performs the cash flow decomposition repackaging that is the web site of the entity that owns operates the data processing system and that is assumed to be in the business of purchasing guaranteeing and or securitizing loans and clicking on appropriate links located at the web site.

It will be appreciated that the data processing system may perform fewer or additional functions as compared to those described herein. For example an entity that performs only some of the above mentioned processes may use a computer system that contains only a subset of the functions described herein.

The preferred data processing system exhibits a high level of data service and time granularity. With respect to data granularity the system is capable of decomposing loans into a series of highly granular cash flows and tracking all of the cash flows from the point the cash flows enter the data processing system e.g. as part of a loan payment or other cash flow source to the point the cash flows exit the data processing system e.g. as part of a payment on a financial instrument as previously described. The decomposition and mapping of cash flows dramatically increases the number of different types of financial instruments that may be created because it makes it possible to create financial instruments based on these other cash flows. In turn this makes it possible to create financial instruments that are more optimally configured to meet the needs of the owner of the financial instrument.

With respect to service granularity the data processing system represents loans as a series of attributes and uses a business rules engine to process loan information. This dramatically simplifies the process of expanding the capabilities of the data processing system to process data associated with new types of loans. The capability to process a new type of loan may be added by adding an additional attribute to a list of available attributes corresponding to the new product feature or modifying existing attributes by using the attribute to indicate the presence or absence and or other characteristics about the new feature in a particular loan and by modifying the rules engine may then be modified to incorporate additional rules regarding the new loan feature. It is not necessary to build a completely new data processing system for the new type of loan. This makes it easier to offer new types of loans which are more optimally configured to meet the needs of individual borrowers. An exemplary set of attributes is described at the end of this section.

With respect to time granularity the data processing system is capable of processing data using a much smaller time slice or update period than has been possible in the past. In the past systems have typically been constructed around the assumption that servicers provide monthly reports which summarize loan activity that occurred during the previous month. The time slice for reporting has been one month and sub monthly temporal data has been lost. In the data processing system when information regarding new loans is received by the acquisition logic and or when information regarding loan payments is received by the servicer and investor reporting logic this information preferably includes information regarding the date the loan was acquired the date or dates within each month or other period other period on which a payment or other transaction is expected and or the date the payment was received. The time slice in the data processing system is therefore one day or less if a smaller time slice such as AM PM hour minutes seconds and so on is used . The temporal information is stored and maintained in databases which are synchronized commonly accessible by the acquisition logic the servicer and investor reporting logic and the securitization logic . As a result the acquisition logic the servicer and investor reporting logic and the securitization logic each have access to this highly granular temporal information regarding loan acquisitions and payments. The increased time granularity supports the above mentioned capabilities to offer a wider array of loans to borrowers and a wider array of financial instruments to investor. For example the increased time granularity facilitates offering loan products in which the borrower is expected to make bi weekly payments which may be attractive to borrowers that get paid bi weekly instead of twice monthly or monthly. This also facilitates handling loan products in which the date of a transaction is meaningful such as daily simple interest loans. Further because sub loan cash flows can be processed using a one day time slice or less it is possible to create financial instruments based on cash flows that are processed on a per day basis.

Another benefit of the acquisition logic the servicer and investor reporting logic and the securitization logic being provided on a common platform and access common synchronized databases is that each system has an up to date view of the data. As previously indicated the data processing system has the ability to accept payment and other transaction information from a servicer as such transactions occur e.g. using daily hourly or near real time updates instead of or in addition to receiving end of the month summary transaction information from the servicer. Once the data is received it is accessible throughout the data processing system . For example it is not necessary to limit the data updates for the securitization logic to a once per month basis at the end of a servicing cycle. Therefore an up to date view of the data is available throughout the data processing system .

It should also be apparent that it is also possible to construct data processing systems which do not incorporate the advantages described herein in connection with the data processing system or which also incorporate additional advantages not described herein. Further it may also be noted that the separation of functionality shown in is necessarily to some extent conceptual and it is also possible to provide the same functionality in other ways. Additionally although numerous functions are described below it may be noted that it may be desirable to provide fewer additional or different functions in a given data processing system depending on the application and what is needed.

Throughout the specification numerous advantages of preferred embodiments have been identified. It will be understood of course that it is possible to employ the teachings herein without necessarily achieving the same advantages. Additionally although many features have been described in the context of a particular data processing system it will be appreciated that such features could also be implemented in the context of other hardware configurations. Further although various figures depict a series of steps which are performed sequentially the steps shown in such figures generally need not be performed in any particular order. For example some of the steps may be performed essentially simultaneously. Additionally some steps shown may be performed repetitively with particular ones of the steps being performed more frequently than others. Alternatively it may be desirable in some situations to perform steps in a different order than shown.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures and described above are presently preferred it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Other embodiments may include for example structures with different data mapping or different data. The invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications combinations and permutations that nevertheless fall within the scope and spirit of the appended claims.

