---

title: Handing off an access terminal during a multicast session within a wireless communications system
abstract: Methods and apparatuses for multicasting within a wireless communications system are disclosed. In one embodiment a method of multicasting within a wireless communications system operating in accordance with a given wireless communication protocol includes monitoring multicast messages associated with a given multicast session in a first sector. A handoff occurs from the first sector to a second sector. It is determined whether the second sector is transmitting multicast messages associated with the given multicast session. Then, based on the determination, a registration request for the given multicast session within the second sector is transmitted on a reverse link access channel in an earlier slot than a next designated slot for registration requests as defined by the wireless communication protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09007927&OS=09007927&RS=09007927
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09007927
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 168 855 entitled HANDING OFF AN ACCESS TERMINAL DURING A MULTICAST SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Apr. 13 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to multicasting within a wireless communications system and more particularly to handing off an access terminal during a multicast session within the wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and apparatuses for multicasting within a wireless communications system and more particularly to handing off an access terminal during a multicast session within the wireless communications system. In one embodiment a method of multicasting within a wireless communications system operating in accordance with a given wireless communication protocol includes monitoring multicast messages associated with a given multicast session in a first sector. A handoff occurs from the first sector to a second sector. It is determined whether the second sector is transmitting multicast messages associated with the given multicast session. Then based on the determination a registration request for the given multicast session within the second sector is transmitted on a reverse link access channel in an earlier slot than a next designated slot for registration requests as defined by the wireless communication protocol.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below a description of multicast call setup for multicast sessions that are carried on a downlink broadcast channel BCH in both target and supporting sectors will be described followed by a description of multicast call setup for multicast sessions that are carried in one or more target sectors e.g. but not necessarily in supporting sectors . As used herein a target sector is any sector within a wireless communications system having or expected to have at least one multicast group member that carries a multicast flow for a given multicast session and a supporting sector is any sector within the wireless communications system that is not expected to have multicast group members and also carries the multicast flow e.g. to enable soft combining in target sectors for high data rate multicast communications . Target and supporting sector behavior is discussed in more detail within Non Provisional U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 974 800 entitled MULTICAST COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK by Song et al. filed on Sep. 24 2007 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Accordingly illustrates a multicast call setup process for a multicast session to be carried on a downlink BCH in both target and supporting sectors according to an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in the application server e.g. a QChat or Push to Talk PTT server receives a request to initiate a multicast session e.g. from a PTT initiator not shown . In the application server forwards an announce message to the RAN for transmission to access terminals multicast group members e.g. ATs . . . N that belong to a multicast group of the multicast session. For example the application server can forward the announce message to the RAN through the BSN via a BCA10 connection. In the RAN receives the announce message over the BCA10 connection and transmits the announce message to ATs . . . N over the air interface e.g. as a data over signaling DOS message on the downlink CCH via a standard paging of ATs . . . N etc. . ATs . . . N receive the announce message and one or more of ATs . . . N register for the multicast session e.g. by transmitting a BCMCSFlowRegistration message and send an announce acknowledgment ACK that the RAN forwards to the application server .

Based at least in part on the registrations received from ATs . . . N the RAN determines the initial target and supporting sectors for the multicast session . illustrates an example cluster i.e. a set of target and supporting sectors that carry a flow for the multicast session referred to as a multicast flow on the same interlace multiplex IM pair of a downlink broadcast channel BCH that may be formed in of . As shown assumes that ATs A . . . G have registered for the multicast session that ATs A . . . G reside in target sectors T through T respectively and that target sectors T through T are supported by supporting sectors S through S. Cluster origination is described in greater detail within the above incorporated co pending patent entitled METHODS OF PROVIDING MULTICAST COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK . While one cluster is illustrated in it will be appreciated that multiple clusters can be formed in the wireless communication system with each cluster carrying the multicast flow on the same IM pair of the downlink BCH or alternatively upon two or more different IM pairs based on BCH scheduling considerations at the RAN .

The RAN transmits a scheduling message e.g. a broadcast overhead message BOM in the target and supporting sectors . For example the BOM can include an advertisement of the announced multicast session along with information instructing ATs . . . N on how to tune to the multicast session on the downlink BCH e.g. an interlace multiplex IM pair on the downlink BCH upon which multicast messages for the multicast session are to be transmitted . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the RAN attempts to configure each sector of the cluster to carry the multicast session on the same IM pair to enhance soft combining e.g. as used herein if sectors carry the multicast flow or session on different IM pairs the sectors will be construed as being part of different clusters and a sector transmitting on multiple IM pairs will be construed as belonging to multiple clusters . In a further example BOMs transmitted in target sectors are configured to suppress subsequent AT registrations e.g. RFDB 0 to reduce traffic except for when the RAN wants to confirm the status of the target sectors and BOMs transmitted in supporting sectors are configured to prompt AT registrations e.g. so that the RAN can transition the supporting sector to a target sector e.g. RFDB 1 . Accordingly the ATs . . . N that have received the BOM tune to the indicated IM pair and monitor for the multicast messages .

In after the application server receives a first announce ACK for the multicast session the application server begins forwarding multicast messages e.g. multicast media messages such as video audio text etc. to the RAN via the BSN over the BCA10 connection for transmission to ATs . . . N. In the RAN receives the multicast messages over the BCA10 connection and transmits the multicast messages to ATs . . . N over the air interface on the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH in both the target and supporting sectors. The ATs . . . N that have tuned to the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH receive and decode the multicast messages .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art transmitting multicast messages in supporting sectors to be used for soft combining for access terminals within the target sectors helps the access terminals decode high data rate broadcasts or multicasts. However if the multicast has a relatively low data rate e.g. a push to talk PTT call a VoIP call etc. the access terminals may not necessarily need to soft combine with the supporting sector transmission s to decode the multicast messages successfully. Also if multicast group members are not geographically densely located e.g. there are not a high number of multicast group members in any particular target sector then the potentially large number of supporting sectors may decrease an overall spectral efficiency because many sectors are transmitting redundant information to reach only a few local multicast group members.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention wherein supporting sectors need not be used will now be described in greater detail with respect to . illustrates a multicast call setup process for a multicast session to be carried on the downlink BCH in one or more target sectors according to an embodiment of the present invention. through of correspond to through of and as such a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity. In the RAN determines whether to form a cluster upon which to carry the multicast session that includes both supporting sectors and target sectors as in or whether to form the cluster to include only target clusters. For example if the RAN determines the multicast session to be a relatively low data rate communication the RAN may determine soft combining to be unnecessary and as such can omit the supporting sectors. If the RAN determines in to include both target and supporting sectors the process advances to of . Otherwise if the RAN determines in to include only target sectors the process advances to of .

Referring to in based at least in part on the registrations received from ATs . . . N in the RAN determines a cluster including target sectors and no supporting sectors for the multicast session. illustrates an example cluster i.e. a set of target sectors in this case that may be formed in of . As shown assumes that ATs A . . . G have registered for the multicast session that ATs A . . . G reside in target sectors T through T respectively and that target sectors T through T do not include supporting sectors e.g. as compared with which includes supporting sectors S through S . In an example the determination of may affect a localized set of target sectors such that other clusters in other areas of the wireless communications system can include supporting sectors and the no supporting sector determination affects only a limited set of target sectors. Alternatively the determination of may be global such that supporting sectors need not be used throughout the wireless communications system . Accordingly the RAN transmits a BOM within the target sectors that lists or advertises a flow identifier ID e.g. a BCMCSFlowID of the announced multicast session and an IM pair on the BCH that carries the multicast flow and ATs . . . N e.g. ATs . . . G in tune to the BOM indicated IM pair on the downlink BCH after decoding the BOM. After receiving a first announce ACK the application server begins to forward multicast messages to the RAN and the RAN receives the multicast messages over the BCA10 connection and transmits the multicast messages to ATs . . . N over the air interface on the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH in the targets sectors . The ATs . . . N that have tuned to the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH receive and decode the multicast messages .

As will be appreciated while the RAN is illustrated in as determining to form the cluster with or without supporting sectors in of this determination may alternatively take place at the application server in other embodiments of the invention and may then be indicated to the RAN via a flag e.g. a DSCP value in a header portion of one or more multicast packets or by some other indicia.

As described above illustrates how to establish a multicast flow to be carried on target sectors instead of both target and supporting sectors such that spectral efficiency savings associated with this approach are achieved because fewer sectors transmit the same multicast messages redundantly. Also as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art omitting supporting sectors reduces the complexity of mobility management because transitions to or from supporting sector states need not be computed when a new multicast group member joins a multicast session departs a multicast session enters or exits a given sector etc. However because the supporting sectors are not included for transmitting the multicast flow on the same IM pair in sectors at least adjacent to the target sectors the probability that an access terminal moving or handing off from a target sector into a non target sector will miss multicast packets is increased because a given delay period is incurred before the access terminal requests registration in the non target sector to prompt the RAN to carry the multicast flow in the new sector.

In conventional multicasting protocols such as 1x EV DO registration messages e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration Messages transmitted from access terminals are defined to be sent on a fixed periodic slot of the reverse link access channel. Accordingly upon entering a non target sector during an active multicast session the given delay period starts at an entry time into the non target sector e.g. a time of handoff power up and or or a time at which multicast messages transmitted within the old target sector can no longer be decoded plus a waiting time for determining the multicast flow is not being carried e.g. based on an expiration of a broadcast overhead period without receiving a BOM based on receiving a BOM that fails to indicate that the new sector is carrying the multicast flow etc. plus another waiting time until a next fixed periodic slot on the reverse link access channel upon which registrations are scheduled for transmission after which the access terminal can tune to the downlink BCH and decode the multicast flow. Embodiments of the invention which will now be described in greater detail are directed to more quickly triggering a registration transmission at access terminals within the wireless communications system upon entry into a non target sector.

In an example assume that the process of is executed and that the cluster of is actively carrying the multicast flow on a given IM pair. In T to T correspond to a group of sectors e.g. referred to as a cluster or multicast cluster that carry the multicast flow on the same IM pair while it is also possible that other clusters not shown carry the multicast flow on a different IM pair. With these assumptions after of the process advances to of . illustrates BCH setup in a non target sector X for an active multicast session according to an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in assume AT G is located at Position within target sector T as illustrated in . Next in AT G moves towards a neighboring sector X which is a non target sector and crosses a handoff boundary between T and X and is at Position of . Accordingly AT G hands off from T to X. In the handoff zone AT G receives transmissions from one or more base stations in one or more sectors carrying the multicast session. For example if the BOM transmitted in T before the handoff indicates that T and T are carrying the multicast flow on the same IM pair AT G receives the multicast flow from T and at least potentially can also receive the multicast flow from T which can be used for soft combining. With regard to the control channel if the system is operating in accordance with DO protocols soft handoff is not supported except for the soft combining related to the downlink BCH such that AT G only monitors the control channel in its current serving sector. Thus BOMs if any are received at AT G in T before the handoff and BOMs are received if any in X after the handoff. Thus AT G continues to monitor the multicast session after the handoff from T to X based on the BOM received in T from before the handoff if possible.

In the RAN transmits a scheduling message on the control channel within sector X. In an example the scheduling message can be a BOM that lists multicast flows being carried on the downlink BCH within X. For convenience of explanation the scheduling message will hereinafter be described as a BOM. However in other multicasting protocols it will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention can be directed to any scheduling message that indicates multicast flow status for one or more sectors. Because AT G has handed off to X AT G monitors transmissions within X and as such receives and decodes the BOM . In an example assume that the BOM received in at AT G is the first BOM following AT G s entry into the handoff zone between T and X. AT G evaluates the decoded BOM and determines either that X is not carrying the desired multicast flow e.g. if X s BOM does not list a BCMCSFlowID and associated BCH IM pair or that X is carrying the desired multicast flow on a different IM pair than sector T e.g. if X corresponds to a different cluster for the multicast flow than the cluster illustrated in . If AT G determines that X is not carrying the multicast flow the process advances to . Otherwise if AT G determines that X is carrying the flow on a different IM pair the process advances to and AT G tunes to the indicated IM pair.

As noted above with respect to because AT G s location at Position of is within the service boundary of T while AT G is setting up the BCH for the multicast session in X AT G continues to monitor the multicast session based at least in part on transmissions from T and or other sectors via soft combining of the downlink BCH based on BCH transmissions of neighboring sectors that also carry the multicast flow on the same BCH IM pair as indicated by the previous BOM in T received at .

The monitoring that begins in is performed at least until a new BOM is decoded for AT G s new sector e.g. in and can be based on the BOM received in T at . For example BOMs may include a list or advertisement of multicast flows carried in neighboring sectors in addition to the local sector transmitting the BOM. Thus if the BOM transmitted in indicates that neighboring sectors e.g. T etc. are carrying the multicast flow AT G soft combines the transmissions from the listed neighboring sector s if possible carrying the multicast flow as well as T s BCH transmissions of the multicast flow at least until a BOM is received that indicates the new sector is carrying the multicast flow on the IM pair being decoded by AT G. While not illustrated explicitly within it is appreciated that if AT G reaches a point at which AT G cannot decode multicast packets associated with the monitored multicast flow the application layer cannot sufficiently correct errors in the multicast flow and or the packet error rate reaches an unacceptable level AT G stops monitoring the flow. Thus assumes that the decoding of the flow at AT G is sufficient until AT G s new sector begins to carry the flow itself.

Likewise while not the case in the present example illustrated in if X is already carrying the multicast flow on the downlink BCH X would be a target sector and may be listed in the BOM received from T on T s downlink control channel before the handoff to X. Thus in an embodiment where AT G hands off from one target sector to another target sector within the same multicast cluster AT G need not wait to receive a BOM in its new serving sector following the handoff before decoding the downlink BCH if a BOM from its old sector already indicates that the new sector is carrying the multicast flow on the downlink BCH. Thus although AT G would not yet have the updated list of neighboring sectors for the new sector that carry the multicast flow to use in soft combining AT G would at least be able to use its new sector s own transmissions of the multicast flow to soft combine and perform better decoding prior to receipt of the BOM. Thus in this case after handing off from T to X in AT G can begin decoding multicast messages on the downlink BCH in X before the BOM is decoded at . Again this scenario is based on the assumption that AT G is handed off between target sectors within a multicast cluster that both carry the same multicast flow on the same IM pair and is described in more detail below with respect to B and C.

Also even though supporting sectors are not included for soft combining in this example AT G can soft combine with neighboring target sectors e.g. listed in the BOM from T received at of even when a serving target sector is carrying the multicast flow so long as the multicast flows from the neighbor target sectors remain in range of AT G.

After determining the desired multicast flow is not being carried in X AT G transmits an immediate registration message e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration message in X to the RAN on the reverse link access channel . As used herein an immediate transmission corresponds to a transmission that is earlier than a predefined periodic slot that is allocated for registration transmissions. For example if slot is the predefined periodic slot for BCMCSFlowRegistration messages then any of slots may be immediate as used herein. For example the immediate BCMCSFlowRegistration message transmission can occur on a next available slot on the reverse link access channel subsequent to the determination of . It is also assumed herein that the RAN is configured to decode the immediate registration message. For example the RAN can be configured to decode all slots on the reverse link access channel or alternatively can be configured to decode only the most likely slots where reverse link registration messages are expected etc. It will be appreciated that there are many different ways in which the RAN can be implemented to ensure receipt of the immediate registration messages described herein.

Upon receiving the registration request in X the RAN transitions X to target sector T and transitions T to a non target sector e.g. because no multicast group members remain in old target sector T which means the RAN begins to carry the multicast flow in T and ceases to support the multicast flow in T. It will be appreciated that the transition of T to a non target sector occurs because AT G is the only multicast group member in T in the cluster illustrated in and AT G then exits the sector T and enters sector X. It will be appreciated that if any multicast group members were to remain in T e.g. if AT D or E were to enter T before AT G exited or a new multicast group member registered to the multicast session in T T would remain a target sector. Also the transition of T to a non target sector may be configured to occur at some point after the RAN sends a BOM in T e.g. in so that AT G does not experience a service outage before AT G can tune to the multicast flow in T. In an example illustrates an updated cluster after the transitioning of based on an initial cluster as illustrated in . The RAN transmits a new scheduling message or BOM that advertises the multicast flow in X now T and AT G receives the scheduling message and tunes to the BOM indicated IM pair on the downlink BCH . It will be appreciated that the RAN if possible can transmit the multicast flow in X now T on the same IM pair as in any neighboring target sector s of the multicast cluster such that AT G can attempt to soft combine with multicast transmissions on the downlink BCH in any neighbor target sector as well e.g. such as T if T were a neighbor sector of T etc. . Also while not shown explicitly in upon receiving the BOM in AT G s new sector i.e. T AT G can update its list of local sectors that are known to carry the multicast flow which now includes T and can include one or more other sectors to be used in soft combining with T s multicast flow transmissions. The RAN begins to transmit multicast messages on the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH in X now T and AT G monitors the multicast messages .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art because AT G transmits the registration message e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration message before the fixed periodic slot reserved for registration messages the RAN is informed of the presence of a multicast group member in X more quickly such that the multicast flow can be carried In X sooner which reduces the probability that AT G will drop the call. Also T transitions to a non target sector more quickly which means that transmissions in T cease sooner which improves a spectral efficiency of the wireless communications system .

In another example again assume that the process of is executed and that the cluster of is actively carrying the multicast flow on a given IM pair. As noted above in T to T correspond to a group of sectors e.g. referred to as a cluster or multicast cluster that carry the multicast flow on the same IM pair while it is also possible that other clusters not shown carry the multicast flow on a different IM pair. With these assumptions after of the process advances to of . illustrates BCH setup in a non target sector X for an active multicast session according to another embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in assume AT G is located at Position within target sector T as illustrated in . Next in the RAN transmits a periodic scheduling message e.g. a BOM within T that advertises the multicast flow and indicates the IM pair carrying the multicast flow in T and any neighboring sectors e.g. T . As noted above if AT G operates in a protocol e.g. DO where the control channel is not soft combined then the decoding of the periodic scheduling message e.g. BOM in occurs prior to the handoff from T to X in . Again for convenience of explanation the scheduling message will hereinafter be described as a BOM. However in other multicasting protocols it will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention can be directed to any scheduling message that indicates multicast flow status for one or more sectors.

In AT G moves towards a neighboring sector X which is a non target sector and crosses a handoff boundary between T and X and is at Position of . Accordingly AT G hands off from sector T to X. In the handoff zone AT G receives transmissions from one or more base stations in one or more sectors carrying the multicast session. For example if the BOM transmitted in T before the handoff indicates that T and T are carrying the multicast flow on the same IM pair AT G receives the multicast flow from T and at least potentially can also receive the multicast flow from T which can be used for soft combining. With regard to the control channel if the system is operating in accordance with DO protocols soft handoff is not supported except for the soft combining related to the downlink BCH such that AT G only monitors the control channel in its current serving sector. Thus BOMs if any are received at AT G in T before the handoff and BOMs are received if any in X after the handoff.

After handing off from T to X AT G resets a BOM timer . In an example the BOM timer has a period equal to a BroadcastOverheadPeriod e.g. an expected period between BOM transmissions .

Because AT G is within the handoff zone AT G monitors transmissions from both T and X. In AT G continues to monitor the multicast session based at least in part on transmissions from T and or other sectors via soft combining of the downlink BCH e.g. such as BCH transmissions of neighboring sectors that also carry the multicast flow on the same BCH IM pair as indicated by the previous BOM in T received at . The monitoring that occurs in is performed at least until a new BOM is decoded for AT G s new sector e.g. in and can be based on the BOM received in T at . For example BOMs may include a list or advertisement of multicast flows carried in neighboring sectors in addition to the local sector. Thus if the BOM transmitted in indicates that neighboring sectors e.g. T etc. are carrying the multicast flow AT G soft combines the transmissions from those neighboring sectors if possible as well as T at least until a BOM is received that indicates the new sector X is carrying the multicast flow. However while not illustrated explicitly within it is appreciated that if AT G reaches a point at which AT G cannot decode multicast packets associated with the monitored multicast flow the application layer cannot sufficiently correct errors in the multicast flow and or the packet error rate reaches an unacceptable level AT G stops monitoring the flow. Thus assumes that the decoding of the flow via soft combining at AT G is sufficient until AT G s new sector begins to carry the flow itself.

In AT G determines whether a BOM has been received in sector X that advertises the multicast flow e.g. either on the same IM pair as in T that is currently being decoded by AT G or on a different IM pair . If a BOM has been received that advertises the multicast flow the process advances to and AT G tunes to the IM pair advertises as supporting the multicast flow e.g. either on the same IM pair as in T that is currently being decoded by AT G or on a different IM pair . While not shown in if a BOM is received that does not advertise the multicast flow the process advances to of . Otherwise if no BOM has been received in sector X the process advances to . In AT G determines whether the BOM timer is expired. If the BOM timer is not expired the process returns to AT G continues to soft combine transmissions of the multicast flow from one or more other sectors and waits to receive a BOM in sector X. Otherwise if the BOM timer is expired AT G transmits an immediate registration message for the multicast session as in of . As discussed above an immediate transmission corresponds to a transmission that is earlier than a predefined periodic slot that is allocated for registration transmissions based on the wireless multicasting protocol e.g. 1x EV DO . through of correspond to to of respectively which have already been described above. Accordingly a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

In yet another example again assume that the process of is executed and that the cluster of is actively carrying the multicast flow on a given IM pair. As noted above in T to T correspond to a group of sectors e.g. referred to as a cluster or multicast cluster that carry the multicast flow on the same IM pair while it is also possible that other clusters not shown carry the multicast flow on a different IM pair. With these assumptions after of the process advances to of . illustrates BCH setup in a non target sector X for an active multicast session according to yet another embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in assume AT G is located at Position within target sector T as illustrated in . Next in the RAN transmits a periodic scheduling message e.g. a BOM within T that advertises the multicast flow within T and indicates the IM pair carrying the multicast flow in T and any neighboring sectors e.g. T . Within this example assume that the BOM of indicates either that the multicast session is not being carried in X or that the multicast session is not being carried in X on the same IM pair as T. For example the indication that the multicast session is not carried in X can be achieved by configuring the BOM to in T to list the neighboring sectors of T that carry the multicast flow on the same IM pair as T and to omit X from this list. It will be appreciated that the failure of the T BOM to indicate X in this manner indicates either that the multicast flow is not being carried in X at all or is being carried on a different IM pair.

In AT G moves towards the neighboring sector X which is a non target sector and crosses a handoff boundary between T and X hands off from T to X and is at Position of . In the handoff zone AT G receives transmissions on the downlink BCH from one or more base stations in one or more sectors carrying the multicast session e.g. from the base station serving sector T so long as T remains a target sector from the base station serving sector X if X is carrying the multicast flow on the given IM pair as indicated by a BOM from T in from one or more neighboring sectors of T that carry the multicast flow on the given IM pair as indicated by the BOM from etc. . In AT G continues to monitor the multicast session based at least in part on transmissions from T and or other sectors via soft combining as described above. The monitoring that occurs in is performed at least until a new BOM is decoded for AT G s new sector e.g. in and can be based on sectors indicating to be carrying the multicast flow on the given IM pair as determined from the BOM received in T at . However while not illustrated explicitly within it is appreciated that if AT G reaches a point at which AT G cannot decode multicast packets associated with the monitored multicast flow the application layer cannot sufficiently correct errors in the multicast flow and or the packet error rate reaches an unacceptable level AT G stops monitoring the flow. Thus assumes that the decoding of the flow via soft combining at AT G is sufficient until AT G s new sector begins to carry the flow itself.

In upon entry into the handoff zone at Position and handing off to X AT G determines that sector X either does not carry the multicast flow at all or does not carry the multicast flow on the same given IM pair based on the previously received BOM in T. As will be appreciated the determination of in this embodiment is based on a previous BOM received in AT G s old sector T and not based on an actual BOM yet received in sector X. Thus AT G need not wait to receive a BOM in X e.g. as in or an expiration of a BOM timer e.g. as in to learn that X does not carry the multicast flow. Accordingly AT G transmits an immediate registration to the RAN in sector X subsequent to the handoff in with immediate being defined above with respect to of of . Next through of correspond to to of respectively which have already been described above. Accordingly a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

Also while not shown explicitly in if AT G determines in that X is carrying the multicast flow on a different IM pair than T AT G can advance directly to and tune to the different IM pair. Thus in this case a registration message need not be sent to prompt the RAN to carry the multicast flow and AT G can simply tune to the multicast flow on the IM pair that is supporting the flow in the next sector.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art each of the embodiments illustrated in and respectively are directed to establishing a multicast flow on a downlink BCH in a non target sector to which one or more multicast group members migrate during an active multicast session. Instead of waiting for the fixed periodic slot on which to send registration messages each of the embodiments illustrated in and respectively teach different manners by which a non target status of a newly entered sector can be inferred by an access terminal thereby triggering a transmission of the registration message that is potentially earlier than the fixed periodic slot.

Further while described as separate embodiments each of the embodiments described with respect to and can be used separately or together. For example a BOM timer can be reset and used to determine the presence of a multicast flow as in while BOMs received in the new sector are evaluated as in .

Further while and have been directed to embodiments wherein no supporting sectors are included in a multicast cluster it will be appreciated that the embodiments described above are applicable to any multicast transmission scenario where the multicast flow is carried on a downlink BCH and a multicast group member handoffs from a target sector to a sector that is not carrying the multicast flow. Thus even if supporting sectors are present in other portions of the cluster for supporting other target sectors e.g. such as target sectors with especially poor channel conditions etc. the embodiments described above can still be implemented where a supporting sector is not present. In this case the supporting sectors could be used for soft combining the multicast flow on the downlink BCH as described above with respect to target sectors. In other words a BOM in a previous or current sector can advertise a supporting sector carrying the multicast flow on a given IM pair for which the AT can use to soft combine the flow irrespective of whether the advertised sector is a supporting sector or a target sector.

While embodiments of the invention described above are directed to sending immediate registrations for a multicast flow or session when an AT migrates from a target sector to a non target sector other embodiments of the invention can be directed to when an AT migrates from a target sector to another target sector as will now be described with respect to .

As in and again assume that the process of is executed and that the cluster of is actively carrying the multicast flow on a given IM pair. As noted above in T to T correspond to a group of sectors e.g. referred to as a cluster or multicast cluster that carry the multicast flow on the same IM pair while it is also possible that other clusters not shown carry the multicast flow on a different IM pair. With these assumptions after of the process advances to of . illustrates BCH setup for an AT AT G that migrates from a current target sector T to an adjacent target sector T according to yet another embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in assume AT G is located at Position within target sector T as illustrated in . Next in the RAN transmits a periodic scheduling message e.g. a BOM within T that advertises the multicast flow within T and indicates the IM pair carrying the multicast flow in T and any neighboring sectors e.g. T . Within this example assume that the BOM of indicates that the multicast session is being carried at least within sectors T and T on the same IM pair.

In AT G moves towards the target sector T crosses a handoff boundary between T and T hands off from T to T and is at Position of . In the handoff zone AT G receives transmissions on the downlink BCH on the monitored IM pair from both the base station serving sector T e.g. for so long as T remains a target sector and from the base station serving sector T because T is carrying the multicast flow on the given IM pair as indicated by a BOM from T in and or from one or more other neighboring sectors of T that carry the multicast flow on the given IM pair as indicated by the BOM from .

In upon entry into the handoff zone at Position and handing off to T AT G determines that sector T is carrying the multicast flow on the same IM pair that is already being monitored by AT G based on the previous BOM that is received in target sector T before the handoff of . Thus as will be appreciated the determination of in this embodiment is based on a previous BOM received in AT G s old sector T and not based on an actual BOM yet received AT G s new sector T. Thus AT G need not wait to receive a BOM in T or an expiration of a BOM timer to learn that T is already carrying the multicast flow on the given IM pair. Accordingly AT G tunes or continues to tune to the IM pair of the downlink BCH in target sector T and if possible can soft combine with one or more other sectors e.g. such as T to increase the decode success rate . For example AT G can soft combine with multicast flow transmissions on the downlink BCH of the given IM pair from target sector T e.g. until these transmissions terminate in as well as potentially one or more neighboring sectors that are indicated in the BOM received T at that are also indicated as carrying the multicast flow at the given IM pair.

Because AT G is already aware that T is a target sector i.e. from the BOM in T at AT G may refrain from sending an immediate registration for the multicast flow in T . Thus unlike and wherein AT G infers a new sector to be a non target sector and sends a preemptive or more immediate registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message in of the opposite conclusion is reached by AT G such that no registration message need be sent. However while not shown in AT G may start a timer which may or may not have the same duration as the BOM timer from and may send a registration if the timer expires. Thus if the BOM in T indicates that T is carrying the multicast flow but T has since stopped carrying the multicast flow AT G can still obtain the multicast flow in T despite T s BOM from acting as a false positive of target sector status for AT G s new sector in this case.

Turning to the RAN after handing off AT G from target sector T to target sector T the RAN maintains target sector T as a target sector and transitions T to a non target sector e.g. because no multicast group members remain in old target sector T . It will be appreciated that the transition of T to a non target sector occurs because AT G is the only multicast group member in T in the cluster illustrated in and AT G then exits the sector T and enters sector T. It will be appreciated that if any multicast group members were to remain in T e.g. if AT D or E were to enter T before AT G exited or a new multicast group member registered to the multicast session in T T would remain a target sector. In an example illustrates an updated cluster after the transitioning of based on an initial cluster as illustrated in .

The RAN transmits a new scheduling message or BOM that advertises the multicast flow in target sector T as well as any neighboring sectors that carry the multicast flow on a given IM pair and AT G receives the scheduling message and updates its list of local sectors that are known to carry the multicast flow . For example the updated list continues to include target sector T which was also listed in the BOM in T at . The updated list now omits target sector T because T has transitioned to a non target sector. The updated list may potentially include other neighboring sectors carrying the multicast flow as well such as T and or T. It will be appreciated that due to scheduling on the BCH it may not always be possible for the RAN to schedule the multicast flow in T on the same IM pair as in T. Thus it is possible that the BOM sent in T may advertise the multicast flow on a different IM pair than in T.

In AT G continues to tune to the BOM indicated IM pair on the downlink BCH in T and also soft combines with other sectors indicated as carrying the multicast flow in the BOM of if possible . It will be appreciated that the RAN if possible can transmit the multicast flow in T on the same IM pair as in any neighboring target sector s of the multicast cluster such that AT G can attempt to soft combine with multicast transmissions on the downlink BCH in any neighbor target sector as well e.g. such as T if T were a neighbor sector of T etc. . Also if the BOM of advertises the multicast flow on a different IM pair than the previous IM pair from the BOM of then AT G switches to the new IM pair. If this occurs soft combining with the old IM pair is not necessarily possible although AT G may be able to soft combine with other sectors that also transmit the multicast flow on the new IM pair indicated in .

The RAN continues to transmit multicast messages on the BOM indicated IM pair of the downlink BCH in T e.g. and potentially one or more other sectors for use in soft combining at AT G and AT G monitors the multicast messages .

Accordingly in the embodiment of it will be appreciated that the level of traffic on the reverse link access channel is reduced due to AT G refraining from sending a registration message in i.e. because AT G s new sector was already a target sector carrying the multicast flow on the same IM pair as AT G s old sector . Also because AT G was aware as soon as handoff occurred in that AT G s new sector was a target sector i.e. AT G began decoding the downlink BCH for the multicast flow in T more quickly i.e. at of than if AT G had waited for a next BOM in the target sector T in i.e. after of .

Accordingly as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the embodiments described above when a given AT monitoring a multicast session hands off to a new sector the given AT determines whether the new sector is already supporting the multicast session on the same IM pair as the given AT s old sector based on i a BOM received in the new sector e.g. ii a BOM received in the old sector e.g. see and or and or iii by a BOM timer expiring before a BOM in the new sector is received e.g. see and or any combination of i ii or iii . If the new sector is determined to already be supporting the multicast flow on the same IM pair as the old sector the given AT may refrain from sending a registration message e.g. see . Otherwise if the new sector is determined not to be supporting the multicast flow on the same IM pair as the old sector based on i ii and or iii an immediate registration message can be sent from the given AT to the RAN in the new sector e.g. see of of and or of which can prompt the new sector to carry the multicast flow more quickly. Also while the given AT waits for the new sector to carry the multicast flow the given AT can monitor the downlink BCH transmission for the multicast flow on the given IM pair for one or more sectors based on a BOM received in the given AT s old sector before the handoff e.g. see of of and or of such that the probability of the given AT dropping the multicast flow before it is carried in the new sector is reduced.

Further a non target sector as described above has been described relative to a particular multicast flow. Thus in embodiments described above a sector qualifies a non target sector if the sector does not carry a particular multicast flow. However it will be appreciated that this may mean that the non target sector does not carry any multicast flows in certain embodiments while this may alternatively mean that the non target sector carries at least one multicast flow but not the multicast flow relevant to the particular embodiment being discussed. Thus a non target sector may carry one or more multicast flows for multicast sessions other than the multicast session at issue.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

