---

title: Latency improvement methods in native PTT gateway for a group call with dispatch console clients
abstract: A system and method for pre-allocating PTT resources including user/resource credentials at the native PTT gateway are presented. The user status and floor control information can be buffered at the native PTT gateway until the native PTT gateway receives actual resource/end point information from the media handler. Afterwards, the pre-allocation of PTT resources can be correctly mapped to the actual user resources/end point information when the native PTT gateway receives such information from the media handlers and a call is handled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649813&OS=08649813&RS=08649813
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08649813
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100402
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 168 860 entitled LATENCY IMPROVEMENT METHODS IN NATIVE PTT GATEWAY FOR A GROUP CALL WITH DISPATCH CONSOLE CLIENTS filed Apr. 13 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The embodiments of the invention relates to latency improvement methods in a native push to talk PTT gateway related to group calls with dispatch console clients a wireless communication system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

In addition to various transmission schemes e.g. unicast multicast broadcast that may be used the PTT call may also be a half duplex or a full duplex communication for at least some of the participants. Generally a PTT call corresponds to a server mediated communication between two or more identified access terminals regardless of the various configurations used to conduct the PTT calls.

In an embodiment a network communications entity may receive from an originator wireless communications device a request to initiate a call with a target wireless communications device. The network entity may receive a session request from an access terminal to initiate a call with at least one target access terminal through a dispatch console. The network entity may perform an initial allocation of resources associated with credentials of the at least one target access terminal. The network entity may then receive and buffer session updates from the dispatch console and then update the initial allocation of resources based upon the buffered session updates. The network communications entity may be an application server and include a dispatch function and a gateway function.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as native PTT client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers. As used herein a native PTT client may be a Push To Talk client that interfaces with the Application Server by mechanisms other than SIP.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the embodiments are not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server may send unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and may send multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to an exemplary network illustrating a dispatch console DC AT communicating with AT. An access terminal AT may communicate with dispatch console DC AT and access terminals AT and AT via application server AS . Furthermore the application server may include a dispatch function and a gateway function . Also while the dispatch function and the gateway function are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention. While portions of are described with respect to SIP it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be implemented in accordance with protocols other than SIP.

Referring to the DC AT may monitor group call e.g. a call that potentially includes more than two calling parties . In this embodiment a PTT application or client may reside on DC AT along with the gateway function . The DC AT can have special privileges for example the ability to monitor calls the ability to join multiple calls simultaneously and the ability to allow a DC user to switch join leave multiple calls. The DC AT may be deployed at control rooms and other critical locations and can be operated by a user who someone who has a broad authority view of the PTT groups environment. Further the DC AT may also have a User Interface UI which can facilitate any of the above functions.

Referring to AT can make a PTT call and the dispatch function subsequently receives and forwards a session request. The gateway function can pre allocate or initialize user resource allocation and can send out a session announcement to a foreign PTT gateway DC AT . The foreign PTT gateway DC AT can avoid call latency by not waiting for native PTT user media credentials to arrive before proceeding with session paging. The gateway function may contain a buffer that can be used to buffer user status and floor control information until the gateway function receives the actual resource end point information from the media handler or dispatch function . The pre allocation of resources could be correctly mapped to the actual user resource credentials when a call is handled and the gateway function receives such information from the media handlers or dispatch function

Access terminal AT may make a call to dispatch console users AT and AT by sending a session request message to the dispatch function . The dispatch function can forward the request by sending a session announce message to the gateway function .

Next the gateway function can perform initial resource allocation such that some or all credentials are in place for the foreign PTT gateway DC AT to page session announce the target access terminals e.g. the called phones . The initial resource allocation can be a component that handles media ports at the data side and floor control. The initial resource allocation can include user credential information and Real Time Protocol RTP and SIP unique identifiers e.g. port and host information .

Afterwards the gateway function can send a session announce message to the foreign PTT gateway DC AT . The session announce message is received by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT and may contain native resource information .

Subsequently the foreign PTT gateway DC AT can page the dispatch console users AT and AT . The foreign PTT gateway DC AT can send a success message to the gateway function . Next the gateway function can send session indication information to the dispatch function . Afterwards the foreign PTT gateway DC AT can send session updates to the gateway function . For example the session updates can include messages indicating that specific users want to join the call leave the call and or a specific user is busy etc.

Subsequently the session updates sent by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT are stored in a buffer . The session update information is buffered because the gateway function does not have the native phone s information session information. The buffer can enable the gateway function to buffer all received messages until call set up is completed. Further this can include all call status messages originated from either the gateway function or from the foreign PTT gateway DC AT. For example in a gateway originated PTT group call the buffer can hold the transmission of all messages until a success message is received from the foreign PTT gateway DC AT which allows for signal synchronization between the native PTT AT and dispatch console users AT and AT. Furthermore the buffer can operate like a first in first out FIFO queue which is checked every time a status or a floor control message is received queued and the first message in the queue is sent out. A message is removed from the queue after a successful acknowledgement from the receiver of the message. The queue also helps with serialization of messages before moving into a call established state.

The dispatch function can perform actual resource allocation . The actual resource allocation can include user credential information Internet Protocol IP Addresses unique user identifiers UID and Real Time Protocol RTP and SIP unique identifiers e.g. port and host information .

Next the dispatch function can send session information to the gateway function . For example the session information can include handset information about the various users port numbers and information IP addresses UID etc.

Afterwards the gateway function can update the initial resource allocation with the actual resource information . In one exemplary embodiment the update of the actual resource information includes a mapping function that places the actual resource information into the initial resource allocation.

Referring to a state chart of the system described in is illustrated. The state chart is started when a session announce message is received from the gateway function . Next the gateway function enters an initial state . The gateway function can perform initial resource allocation such that some or all credentials are in place for the foreign PTT gateway DC AT to page session announce target access terminals e.g. the called phones . Afterwards the gateway function can send an invite message to the foreign PTT gateway DC AT . The invite message is received by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT and may contain native resource information .

The gateway function can send session indication information which may include announce success information to the dispatch function . Next session updates sent by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT which may include call status or floor control messages are stored in a buffer . Afterwards session information and credentials can be sent to the gateway function . For example the credentials can include buffer status and floor control. Subsequently the gateway function can receive call information from the call handler or dispatch function . The call information can include the updated actual resource allocation.

The gateway function can update the initial resource allocation with the actual resource information . In one exemplary embodiment the update of the actual resource information includes a mapping function that places the actual resource information into the initial resource allocation.

Next the gateway function can send status session updates to the call handler or dispatch function and the foreign PTT gateway DC AT . Afterwards the call is established and the gateway function can send media to the call handler or dispatch function and the foreign PTT gateway DC AT .

Referring to an exemplary call flow is illustrated where latency improvement is employed for a group call for an exemplary embodiment. Accordingly a dispatch function receives a session request message . Next the dispatch function can forward the request by sending a session request message to the gateway function .

The gateway function can perform initial resource allocation such that some or all credentials are in place for the foreign PTT gateway DC AT to page session announce the called phones . The initial resource allocation can be a component that handles media ports at the data side and floor control. The initial resource allocation can include user credential information and Real Time Protocol RTP and SIP unique identifiers e.g. port and host information .

Afterwards the gateway function can send a session page message to the foreign PTT gateway DC AT . The session page message is received by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT and is forwarded to any dispatch console users AT and AT . The session page message may contain native resource information. Subsequently the foreign PTT gateway DC AT can receive a page response message from any dispatch console users AT and AT .

The foreign PTT gateway DC AT can send a page response message to the gateway function . Next the gateway function can send a session response message to the dispatch function . The dispatch function can send a session response message .

Afterwards the foreign PTT gateway DC AT can receive session updates . For example the session updates can include messages indicating that specific users want to join the call leave the call and or a specific user is busy etc. The foreign PTT gateway DC AT can send session updates to the gateway function . Subsequently the session updates sent by the foreign PTT gateway DC AT are stored in a buffer .

The dispatch function can perform actual resource allocation . The actual resource allocation can include user credential information Internet Protocol IP Addresses unique user identifiers UID and Real Time Protocol RTP and SIP unique identifiers e.g. port and host information .

Next the dispatch function can send a session confirmation message . The dispatch function can receive a source response acknowledgment ACK message . Afterwards the dispatch function can send session information to the gateway function . The gateway function can update the initial resource allocation with the actual resource information . In one exemplary embodiment the update of the actual resource information includes a mapping function that places the actual resource information into the initial resource allocation. Next the gateway function can send session updates to the dispatch function .

The application server may include a network interface that may be wired and or wireless for communicating over the server side LAN. A processor may be connected to the network interface a user interface and memory . The processor may include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers and or digital signal processors that provide processing functions as well as other calculation and control functionality. The processor accesses memory for reading writing data and or software instructions for executing programmed functionality. The memory may be on board the processor e.g. within the same IC package and or the memory may be external memory to the processor and functionally coupled over a data bus.

A number of software modules and or data tables may reside in memory and be utilized by the processor for resource and session management functionality including functionality describe above. As illustrated here within memory the application server may further include or otherwise provide a Dispatch Function Module and or a Gateway Function Module. While the software modules are illustrated in the example as being contained in memory it should be recognized that in certain implementations such procedures may be provided for or otherwise operatively arranged using other or additional mechanisms. For example all or part of software modules may be provided in firmware. Additionally while in the software modules are shown as a single distinct entity for ease of description it should be understood that it may include a plurality of modules that are not illustrated or otherwise be further partitioned into a differing groups of procedures.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly the embodiments of the invention are not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

