---

title: Methods and compositions for treating a disease condition in a subject
abstract: Methods for treating a disease condition in a subject are provided. The subject methods are characterizing by enhancing at least one symptom of the disease condition in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the disease condition. Also provided are compositions, kits and systems for practicing the subject methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788041&OS=08788041&RS=08788041
owner: Palo Alto Investors
number: 08788041
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100920
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 650 192 filed on Feb. 3 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 630 969 filed on Nov. 24 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 619 158 filed on Oct. 15 2004 the disclosures of which applications are herein incorporated by reference.

Reversing chronic conditions remains an elusive goal of medicine. The modern medical paradigm based on blocking or promoting abnormal pathways offers symptomatic benefit but tolerance to therapy can develop and treatment cessation can produce rebound symptoms and tachyphylaxis due to compensatory mechanisms. Tolerance is defined as either a situation requiring dose escalation to maintain the therapeutic effect or a decreasing response to the repeat similar dosing. A classic example is the use of beta blockers for hypertension in which abnormally high sympathovagal ratio represents one of the therapeutic targets. With time chronic sympathetic blockade with beta blockers may induce compensatory elevation of sympathovagal ratio thereby creating higher dosing requirements and the potential for rebound hypertension upon cessation.

Methods for treating a disease condition in a subject are provided. The subject methods include enhancing at least one symptom of the disease condition to be treated in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the disease condition. Also provided are compositions kits and systems for practicing the subject methods.

Methods for treating a disease condition in a subject are provided. The subject methods include enhancing at least one symptom of the disease condition in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the disease condition. Also provided are compositions kits and systems for practicing the subject methods.

Before the present invention is described in greater detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention representative illustrative methods and materials are now described.

All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing date and should not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.

It is noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible.

Aspects of the invention include methods of treating a subject for a disease condition. In the subject methods at least one symptom of the disease condition is enhanced in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the disease condition. By enhanced is meant that the magnitude of the symptom is increased. In other words the target symptom or symptoms is exacerbated. In certain embodiments the magnitude of enhancement is at least about two fold e.g. at least about 5 fold or more. The term symptom is used broadly to refer to any characteristic or sign of the disease condition i.e. parameter where symptoms may be any of a number of different types of parameters including but not limited to sympathovagal ratio high blood pressure shortness of breath variations from normal of one or more blood analytes depression sleeplessness and the like. Representative parameters of interest and ranges that can be employed as reference values are provided in Table 1 below 

In practicing the subject methods the target symptom s is enhanced by applying an appropriate stimulus to the subject where the stimulus is of a nature and magnitude sufficient to achieve the desired enhancement. In certain embodiments the applied stimulus is one of short duration where by short duration is meant that the applied stimulus lasts for less than about 1 week e.g. less than about 3 days e.g. less than about 1 day e.g. less than about 12 hours where the duration of the applied stimulus may be even shorter. Where the stimulus is a pharmacological stimulus the duration refers to the period in which the pharmacological agent from an administered dosage is active. Where the stimulus is an electrical stimulus the duration refers to the total of electrical applications received by a subject over a given period analogous to a dose of a pharmacological agent.

Following symptom enhancement via an applied stimulus as described above the stimulus is removed e.g. by metabolization of the pharmacological agent or cessation of application of electrical energy and the subject is permitted to mount a compensatory response. In this following period no additional stimulus is administered to the subject. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in representative embodiments is at least about 1 day such as at least about 2 days including at least about 5 days at least about 10 days at least about 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus e.g. non chronic administration of a pharmacologic agent.

In certain embodiments the methods include close monitoring or supervision of the subject during and or after application of the stimulus. This monitoring may be completely automated or at least in part performed manually e.g. by a health care professional. For example a health care professional can closely watch the subject following application of the stimulus as well as during the holiday period following stimulus application and based on this monitoring determine when a next stimulus should be applied. Monitoring also assures that the symptom enhancement is not so severe as to be ultimately damaging to the subject at an unacceptable level. Certain aspects of the monitoring may be automated. For example following administration the subject may enter one or more physiological parameters into an automated system which uses the input parameters to automatically determine whether the subject is staying within a predetermined set of physiological parameters or whether intervention is necessary. In certain embodiments the automated monitoring system may also be integrated with a stimulus application device such that the system based on monitored parameters determines when next to administer a stimulus the duration of the next stimulus etc. As such the method may be characterized as applying a first stimulus to the subject and monitoring the subject for a response thereto. Following this first step the method further includes applying at least a second stimulus to the subject wherein the second stimulus is determined based on the monitored response to the first stimulus.

In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In practicing the subject methods the applied stimulus may vary where in representative embodiments the stimulus may be a pharmacological stimulus and or an electrical stimulus. As such in certain embodiments the stimulus is a pharmacological stimulus. In other representative embodiments the stimulus is an electrical stimulus. In yet other embodiments the stimulus is a combination of pharmacological and electrical stimuli. Accordingly in certain embodiments the enhancing is by administering a pharmacological agent to the subject. In yet other embodiments the enhancing is by electrical stimulation e.g. by employing an implanted electrical energy application device.

A variety of different disease conditions are treatable by the subject methods. In certain embodiments the disease condition is one in which the body mounts a compensatory response to a stimulus administered to suppress or decrease one or more symptoms of the disease. In other words the disease condition is one that is characterized by the presence of a compensatory response to a stimulus that reduces the magnitude of one or more symptoms of the disease. In certain embodiments the disease condition is a condition that is characterized by the presence of a compensatory mechanism to a directly acting therapeutic approach.

In certain embodiments the disease condition is a manifestation of an irregularity in a homeostatic pathway. In certain embodiments the disease condition is manifested by chronic sympathetic bias. In certain embodiments the pharmacological agent is adrenergic agonist where the agent enhances the sympathetic bias in the short term thereby causing the body to mount a compensatory mechanism. In certain embodiments the stimulus is application of electrical energy that stimulates a sympathetic nerve s in a manner that enhances the sympathetic bias in the short term thereby causing the body to mount a compensatory mechanism.

In certain embodiments the disease condition is a cardiovascular disease. For example short term administration of adrenergic agonists may be employed in the treatment of hypertension e.g. to achieve the desired short term increase or enhancement of sympathetic bias and concomitant long term decrease in sympathetic bias. In certain embodiments the disease condition is a neurological condition. For example short term administration of a serotonin antagonist may be employed to treat depression by causing a long term compensatory response in the body in the form of increased serotonin receptor sensitivity. In certain embodiments the disease condition is an immune condition. For example a proinflammatory agent may be administered in short duration to treat asthma where the short duration of proinflammatory agent cause the body to mount a compensatory response that results in decreased inflammation. In certain embodiments the disease condition is an endocrine system condition. For example in the treatment of diabetes an insulin blocker may be administered on a short term basis causing the body to mount a compensatory response e.g. in the form of increased insulin receptor sensitivity. See the experimental section below for further discussion of these representative embodiments. In certain embodiments the disease is not a pulmonary airway disease e.g. asthma emphysema or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

If a pharmacological approach is employed in the treatment of a given disease the specific nature and dosing schedule of the agent will vary depending on the particular nature of the disease to be treated. Representative pharmacological agents that may find use in certain embodiments of the subject invention include both pro parasympathetic and pro sympathetic agents.

Pro parasympathetic agents of interest include but are not limited to Beta Blockers e.g. atenolol Tenormin R betaxolol Kerlone R bisoprolol Zebeta R carvedilol Coreg R esmolol Brevibloc R labetalol Normodyne R metoprolol Lopressor R nadolol Corgard R pindolol Visken R propranolol Inderal R sotalol Betapace R timolol Blocadren R Aldosterone Antagonists e.g. Spironolactone eplerenone Angiotensin II Receptor Blockade candesartan Atacand R irbesartan Avapro R losartan Cozaar R telmisartin Micardis R valsartan Diovan R eprosartan mesylate Teveten ACE inhibitors e.g. Benazepril Lotensin R Captopril Capoten R Enalapril Vasotec R Fosinopril Monopril R Lisinopril Prinivil R Moexipril Univasc R Quinapril Accupril R Ramipril Altace R Trandolapril Mavik R Statins e.g. atorvastatin Lipitor R cerivastatin Baycol R fluvastatin Lescol R lovastatin Mevacor R pravastatin Pravachol R mvastatin Zocor R Triglyceride Lowering Agents e.g. fenofibrate Tricor R gemfibrozil Lopid R Niacin Diabetes Agents e.g. acarbose Precose R glimepiride Amaryl R glyburide Micronase R Diabeta R metformin Glucophage R Miglitol Glycet R pioglitazone Actos R repaglinide Prandin R rosiglitazone Avandia R Immunomodulators e.g. Interferon Alfa 2A Roferon A Interferon Alfa 2b Intron A Interferon Alfa 2b and Ribavirin combo Pack Rebetron Interferon Alfa N3 Alferon N Interferon Beta 1A Avonex Interferon Beta 1B Betaseron Interferon Gamma agents that binds reacts to CD4 gp39 B7 CD19 CD20 CD22 CD401 CD40 CD40L and CD23 antigens rituximab Nicotine Sympathomimetics e.g. trimethaphan Clonidine Reserpine Guanethidine Antihistamines e.g. Benadryl Diphenhydramine Actifed Triprolidine PBZ Tripelenamine Allegra Fexofenadine Periactin Cyproheptadine Antivert or Bonine Meclizine Phenergan Promethazine Astelin dispensed as a Nose Spray Polyhistine Phenyltoloxamine Atarax Hydroxyzine Seldane Terfenadine Benadryl Diphenhydramine Semprex Acrivastine Bromfed Brompheneramine Tavist Clemastine Chlortrimeton Chlorpheniramine unisom Doxylamine Claritin Loratidine Zyrtec Cetirizine Dramamine Dimenhydrinate Cholinergics e.g. Bethanechol Oxotremorine Methacholine Cevimeline Carbachol Galantamine Arecoline Levaminsole Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors e.g. Edrophonium Neostigmine Donepezil Tacrine Echothiophate Diisopropylfluorophosphate Demecarium Pralidoxime Galanthamine Tetraethyl pyrophosphate Parathoin Malathion Isofluorophate Metrifonate Physostigmine Rivastigmine Abenonium acetylchol Carbaryl acetylchol Propoxur acetylchol Aldicarb acetylchol Muscarinics Muscarine Pilocarpine Magnesium Calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine besylate Norvasc diltiazem hydrochloride Cardizem CD Cardizem SR Dilacor XR Tiazac felodipine Plendil isradipine DynaCirc DynaCirc CR nicardipine Cardene SR nifedipine Adalat CC Procardia XL nisoldipine Sular verapamil hydrochloride Calan SR Covera HS Isoptin SR Verelan Sodium channel blockers e.g. moricizine propafenone encamide flecamide Tocainide mexiletine Phenyloin Lidocaine Diisopyramide Quinidine Procainamide Glucocorticoid receptor blocker e.g. Mifepristone Peripheral adrenergic inhibitors e.g. guanadrel Hylorel guanethidine monosulfate Ismelin reserpine Serpasil Mecamylamine Hexamethonium Blood vessel dilators e.g. hydralazine hydrochloride Apresoline minoxidil Loniten Central agonists e.g. alpha methyldopa Aldomet clonidine hydrochloride Catapres guanabenz acetate Wytensin guanfacine hydrochloride Tenex Combined alpha and beta blockers e.g. labetalol hydrochloride Normodyne Trandate carvedilol Coreg Alpha blockers e.g. doxazocin mesylate Cardura prazosin hydrochloride Minipress terazosin hydrochloride Hytrin Combination diuretics e.g. amiloride hydrochloride hydrochlorothiazide Moduretic spironolactone hydrochlorothiazide Aldactazide triamteren hydrochlorothiazide Dyazide Maxzide Potassium sparing diuretics e.g. amiloride hydrochloride Midamar spironolactone Aldactone triamteren Dyrenium Nitrate pathway modulators e.g. L arginine Nitroglycerin Deponit Minitran Nitropar Nitrocine Nitro Disc Nitro Dur Nitrogard Nitroglycerin Nitroglycerin T R Nitro Time Nitrol ointment Nitrolingual Spray Nitrong Nitro Bid Nitropress Nitroprex Nitro S.A. Nitrospan Nitrostat Nitro Trans System Nitro Transdermal Nitro Time Transderm Nitro Tridil. Pentaerythrito I Tetranitrate Peritrate Peritrate S.A Erythrityl Tetranitrate Cardilate Isosorbide Dinitrate Phenobarbital Isordil w PB Isosorbide Mononitrate Imdur ISMO Isosorbide Mononitrate Monoket Isosorbide Nitrate Cyclic nucleotide monophosphodiesterase PDE inhibitors e.g. Levitra vardenafil Cialis tadalafil Viagra sildenafil Vasopressin inhibitors e.g. atosiban Alcohol Relaxin Renin inhibitors e.g. Aliskiren Estrogen and estrogen analogues and estrogen metabolites Vesicular monoamine transport VMAT inhibitors e.g. reserpine tetrabenazine Melatonin Melatonin Analogues 6 chloromelatonin 2 3 dihydromelatonin 6 chloro 2 3 dihydromelatonin N acetyl N 2 formyl 5 methoxy kynurenamine N acetyl 5 methoxy kynurenamine Progesterone inhibitors e.g. ru486 Testosterone inhibitors e.g. Spironolactone cyproterone acetate Gonadotropin releasing hormone inhibitors e.g. Leuprolide Acetate Oxytocin inhibitors e.g. Terbutaline Ritodrine Glucagon Like Peptide 1 Dipeptidyl Peptidase IV inhibitors e.g. LAF237 novartis P93 01 and P32 98 Probiodrug AB valine pyrrolidide Novo Nordisk dhea adiponectin phenserine phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor valproate Anticoagulants e.g. Exanta ximelagatran Bilivarudin hirulog abciximab Reopro Aggrenox dipridamole ASA anagrelide Agrylin clopidogrel Plavix dipyridamole Persantine tifabatide Integrelin ticlopidine Ticlid tirofiban aggrastat ardeparin Normiflo Dalteparin Fragmin Danaparoid Orgaran Enoxaparin lovenox lepirudin Refludan Heparin Warfarin Thrombolytics e.g. alteplase Activase t PA reteplase Retevase Streptokinase Urokinase Other anticoagulants e.g. aminocaproic acid Amicar cilostazol Pletal erythropoietin Epogen filgrastim G CSF Neupogen oprelvekin Neumega pentoxifylline Trental hmg1 antagonist botox and the like.

Pro sympathetic agents of interest include but are not limited to Beta agonists e.g. dobutamine terbutaline ritodrine albuterol metaproterenol Alpha 1 agonists e.g. phenylephrine metaraminol methoxamine Prednisone steroids Indirect agents that include but are not limited to NE ephedrine phenylpropanolamine cyclopentamine tuaminoheptane naphazoline amphetamine tetrahydrozoline Epinephrine norepinephrine Acetylcholine Sodium Calcium ACE Angiotensin Aldosterone Aldosterone Analogues Fludrocortisone 18 oxocortisol deoxycorticosterone pivalate DOCP ciba geigy animal health Potassium or magnesium channel blockers e.g. valproate lithium Cocaine Amphetamines e.g. Ephedrine Terbutaline Dopamine Bromocriptine Parlodel Levodopa Carbidopa Dobutamine Acupuncture Adh vasopressin Oxytocin pitocin THC cannabinoids Progesterone Leptin Galanin like peptide

In certain embodiments the pharmacologic agent that is administered is not an inverse agonist as defined in publication nos. WO 2005 034871 and WO 2005 035731 such that it is not a substance that has an affinity for the inactive state of a receptor and thereby stabilizes the inactive state of the receptor or a substance including but not limited to drugs hormones or neurotransmitters that produces inactivation of receptors and or prevents or hinders activation by agonists thereby reducing signaling from those receptors. In certain embodiments the agent is not nadolol bupranolol butoxyamine carazolol carvedilol ICI 118 551 levobunolol metoprolol propranolol sotalol and timolol and the salts solvates analogues congeners bioisosteres hydrolysis products metabolites precursors and prodrugs thereof. In certain embodiments the agent is not a pressor agent such that it does not increase blood pressure.

In certain embodiments the subject invention includes administering an effective amount of a pharmacological agent to a subject. Any suitable pharmacological agents may be administered. That is embodiments of the subject methods include administering an effective amount i.e. a therapeutically effective amount of one or more pharmacological agents to a subject. By effective amount is meant a dosage sufficient to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the subject as desired. The effective amount will vary with the age and physical condition of the subject severity of the condition being treated the duration of the treatment the nature of any concurrent treatment the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier used if any and analogous factors within the knowledge and expertise of those skilled in the art.

In certain embodiments more than one type of agent may be administered at the same or different times to treat the same or different condition. The effective amount of a given agent may vary somewhat from subject to subject and may depend upon factors such as but not limited to the age and condition of the subject the form of the agent the route and method of delivery etc. as noted above. Dosages may be determined in accordance with routine pharmacological procedures known to those skilled in the art.

Depending on the particular agent s administered to a subject the agent s may be administered to a subject using any convenient means. Thus a pharmacological agent may be incorporated into a variety of formulations for administration to a subject. A pharmacological agent may be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions by combination with appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. By pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is meant a component such as a carrier diluent excipient and the like of a composition that is compatible with the one or more pharmacological agents and other optional ingredients of the subject pharmacological agent compositions in that a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be combined with the pharmacological agent s without eliminating the biological or therapeutically effective activity of the one or more pharmacological agents and is suitable for use in subjects as provided herein without undue adverse side effects such as toxicity irritation allergic response and death . Side effects are undue when their risk outweighs the benefit provided by the pharmaceutical agent. Non limiting examples of pharmaceutically acceptable components include but are not limited to any of the standard pharmaceutical carriers such as phosphate buffered saline solutions water emulsions such as oil water emulsions or water oil emulsions microemulsions and various types of wetting agents. Accordingly the pharmacological agents employed in the subject methods may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid e.g. gel liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants and aerosols. As such administration of a pharmacological agent may be achieved in various ways including but not limited to oral buccal e.g. sub lingual rectal topical including both skin and mucosal surfaces including airway surfaces parenteral e.g. subcutaneous intramuscular intradermal intravenous and intrathecal intraperitoneal transdermal intracheal intravaginal endocervical intrathecal intranasal intravesicular in or on the eye in the ear canal etc. administration. In certain embodiments one or more pharmacological agents may be administered via a transdermal patch or film system such as or analogous to that described e.g. in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 503 532 5 302 395 5 262 165 5 248 501 5 232 702 5 230 896 5 227 169 5 212 199 5 202 125 5 173 302 5 154 922 5 139 786 5 122 383 5 023 252 4 978 532 5 324 521 5 306 503 5 302 395 5 296 230 5 286 491 5 252 334 5 248 501 5 230 896 5 227 169 5 212 199 5 202 125 5 173 302 5 171 576 5 139 786 5 133 972 5 122 383 5 120 546 5 118 509 5 077 054 5 066 494 5 049 387 5 028 435 5 023 252 5 000 956 4 911 916 4 898 734 4 883 669 4 882 377 4 840 796 4 818 540 4 814 173 4 806 341 4 789 547 4 786 277 4 702 732 4 690 683 4 627 429 and 4 585 452 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments may include pharmacological agent formulations for oral administration that may be formulated using pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art in dosages suitable for oral administration. Such carriers enable the pharmaceutical formulations to be formulated in unit dosage forms as tablets pills powder dragees capsules liquids lozenges gels syrups slurries suspensions etc. suitable for ingestion by the patient. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use may be obtained through combination of at least one pharmacological agent with a solid excipient optionally grinding a resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable additional compounds if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable solid excipients include but are not limited to carbohydrate or protein fillers and include but are not limited to sugars including lactose sucrose mannitol or sorbitol starch from corn wheat rice potato or other plants cellulose such as methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose or sodium carboxymethylcellulose and gums including arabic and tragacanth as well as proteins such as gelatin and collagen. If desired disintegrating or solubilizing agents may be added such as the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate with optional lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and if desired with diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives and flavoring agents.

Accordingly pharmacological agent formulations suitable for oral administration in accordance with the subject invention may be present in discrete units such as capsules cachets lozenges tablets and the like each containing a predetermined amount of the active pharmacological agent as a powder or granules as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or as an oil in water or water in oil emulsion. Such pharmacological agent formulations may be prepared by any suitable method of pharmacy which includes but is not limited to bringing into association the active pharmacological agent and a suitable carrier which may contain one or more optional ingredients as noted above . For example pharmacological agent formulations for use with the subject invention may be prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active pharmacological agent s with a liquid or finely divided solid carrier or both and then if necessary shaping the resulting mixture. For example a tablet may be prepared by compressing or molding a powder or granules containing the active pharmacological agent optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the pharmacological agent in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent and or surface active dispersing agent s . Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine the powdered pharmacological agent moistened with an inert liquid binder.

Pharmacological agents may also be administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration of the drug. These formulations may be prepared by mixing a pharmacological agent with a suitable non irritating vehicle or excipient which is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperatures and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Such materials include but are not limited to cocoa butter carbowaxes and polyethylene glycols. Embodiments include one or more pharmacological agent s made into suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying bases or water soluble bases.

Pharmacological agents may also be administered by intranasal intraocular intravaginal and intrarectal routes including suppositories insufflation powders and aerosol formulations for examples of steroid inhalants see Rohatagi 35 1187 1193 1995 Tjwa 75 107 111 1995 .

For example embodiments may also include at least one pharmacological agent in an aerosolized atomized or nebulized vapor form e.g. administrable via a metered dose device or nebulizer and the like such that embodiments also include aerosolizing vaporing or nebulizing one or more pharmacological agents for administration to a subject. Accordingly the one or more pharmacological agent agents may be utilized in aerosol formulation or an analogous formulation to be administered via inhalation or analogous means. The one or more pharmacological agents employed in the practice of the present invention may be formulated into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Pharmacological agents may be delivered transdermally by a topical route formulated as applicator sticks solutions suspensions emulsions gels creams ointments pastes jellies paints powders and aerosols. For example embodiments may include a pharmacological agent formulation in the form of a discrete patch or film or plaster or the like adapted to remain in intimate contact with the epidermis of the recipient for a period of time. For example such transdermal patches may include a base or matrix layer e.g. polymeric layer in which one or more pharmacological agent s are retained. The base or matrix layer may be operatively associated with a support or backing. Pharmacological agent formulations suitable for transdermal administration may also be delivered by iontophoresis and may take the form of an optionally buffered aqueous solution of the pharmacological agent compound. Suitable formulations may include citrate or bis tris buffer pH 6 or ethanol water and contain a suitable amount of active ingredient.

Pharmacological agents may be provided as a salt and may be formed with one or more acids including but not limited to hydrochloric sulfuric acetic lactic tartaric malic succinic etc. Salts tend to be more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents that are the corresponding free base forms. In other cases a preparation may be a lyophilized powder that is combined with buffer prior to use.

Pharmacological agents may administered parenterally such as intravenous IV administration and may include a solution of the pharmacological agent dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed include but are not limited to water and Ringer s solution an isotonic sodium chloride etc. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid can likewise be used in the preparation of injectables. Accordingly a pharmacological agent may be formulated into preparations for injection by dissolving suspending or emulsifying them in an aqueous or nonaqueous solvent such as vegetable or other similar oils synthetic aliphatic acid glycerides esters of higher aliphatic acids or propylene glycol and if desired with conventional additives such as solubilizers isotonic agents suspending agents emulsifying agents stabilizers and preservatives. These solutions are sterile and generally free of undesirable matter. These formulations may be sterilized by conventional well known sterilization techniques. The formulations may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents toxicity adjusting agents e.g. sodium acetate sodium chloride potassium chloride calcium chloride sodium lactate and the like. The concentration of pharmacological agent in these formulations may vary widely and will be selected based on fluid volumes viscosities body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected and the patient s needs. For IV administration the formulation may be a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution of 1 3 butanediol and the like. Accordingly pharmacological agent formulations suitable for parenteral administration may include sterile aqueous and non aqueous injection solutions of one or more active pharmacological agents which preparations may be isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient. These preparations may contain buffers and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient. Aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The formulations may be presented in single or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example saline or water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind described above.

Pharmacological agents may be delivered by the use of liposomes which fuse with the cellular membrane or are endocytosed i.e. by employing ligands attached to the liposome or attached directly to the oligonucleotide that bind to surface membrane protein receptors of the cell resulting in endocytosis. By using liposomes particularly where the liposome surface carries ligands specific for target cells or are otherwise preferentially directed to a specific organ one can focus the delivery of the pharmacological agent into the target cells in vivo. See e.g. Al Muhammed 13 293 306 1996 Chonn 6 698 708 1995 Ostro 46 1576 1587 1989 . Accordingly embodiments may include one or more pharmacological agents administered as liposomal formulations of the pharmacological agents. Methods for preparing liposomal suspensions are known in the art and thus will not be described herein in great detail. Briefly in those embodiments where the pharmacological agent is an aqueous soluble pharmacological agent the pharmacological agent may be incorporated into lipid vesicles using conventional liposome technology. In such instances due to the water solubility of the pharmacological agent the pharmacological agent may be substantially entrained within the hydrophilic center or core of the liposomes. The lipid layer employed may be of any conventional composition and may either contain cholesterol or may be cholesterol free. When the pharmacological agent of interest is water insoluble the pharmacological agent may be substantially entrained within the hydrophobic lipid bilayer which forms the structure of the liposome employing conventional liposome formation technology. In either instance the liposomes which may be produced may be reduced in size as through the use of standard sonication and homogenization techniques. Embodiments of liposomal formulations containing the pharmacological agent of interest may be lyophilized to produce a lyophilizate which may be reconstituted with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as water to regenerate a liposomal suspension.

A pharmaceutical composition of the subject invention may optionally contain in addition to a pharmacological agent at least one other therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a condition. Such other compounds may be of any class of drug or pharmaceutical agent including but not limited to antibiotics anti parasitic agents antifungal agents anti viral agents anti tumor agents anti neurodegenerative agents and anti psychotic agents. When administered with anti parasitic anti bacterial anti fungal anti tumor anti viral agents anti neurodegenerative and anti psychotic agents and the like pharmacological agents may be administered by any method and route of administration suitable to the treatment of the condition typically as pharmaceutical compositions.

Pharmacological agents may include compositions that may be prepared from water insoluble compounds or salts thereof such as aqueous base emulsions. In such embodiments the pharmacological agent composition will typically contain a sufficient amount of pharmaceutically acceptable emulsifying agent to emulsify the desired amount of the pharmacological agent. Useful emulsifying agents include but are not limited to phosphatidyl cholines lecithin and the like.

As noted above in addition to active pharmacological agents the compositions may contain other additives such as pH adjusting additives. In particular useful pH adjusting agents include acids such as hydrochloric acid bases or buffers such as sodium lactate sodium acetate sodium phosphate sodium citrate sodium borate or sodium gluconate. Furthermore pharmacological agent compositions may though not always contain microbial preservatives. Microbial preservatives that may be employed include but are not limited to methylparaben propylparaben and benzyl alcohol. The microbial preservative may be employed when the pharmacological agent formulation is placed in a vial designed for multi dose use. Pharmacological agent compositions for use in practicing the subject methods may be lyophilized using techniques well known in the art.

The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as vehicles adjuvants carriers or diluents are readily available to the public. Moreover pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents stabilizers wetting agents and the like are readily available to the public.

Embodiments may also include administration of at least one pharmacological agent using a pharmacological delivery device such as but not limited to pumps implantable or external devices epidural injectors syringes or other injection apparatus catheter and or reservoir operatively associated with a catheter etc. For example in certain embodiments a delivery device employed to deliver at least one pharmacological agent to a subject may be a pump syringe catheter or reservoir operably associated with a connecting device such as a catheter tubing or the like. Containers suitable for delivery of at least one pharmacological agent to a pharmacological agent administration device include instruments of containment that may be used to deliver place attach and or insert at least one pharmacological agent into the delivery device for administration of the pharmacological agent to a subject and include but are not limited to vials ampules tubes capsules bottles syringes and bags.

In certain embodiments a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be preservative free. By preservative free is meant the substantial absence of chemical antibacterial antimicrobial or antioxidative additives or the like from the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers of the present invention. Substantial absence may mean that no preservative is present in the compositions or that trace amounts may be present that impart no detectable effect otherwise attributable to a preservative. For example the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be characterized by the substantial absence of chemical antibacterial antimicrobial or antioxidative additives or the like e.g. contain less than about 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.5 0.1 0.05 0.01 or even about 0.00 percent by weight of a preservative . Further such formulations may be substantially or essentially free of alcohols such as ethanol e.g. contain less than about 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.5 0.1 0.05 0.01 or even about 0.00 percent by weight of alcohols such as ethanol . Examples of suitable pharmacological agent formulations include but are not limited to formulations that include one or more active pharmacological agents and physiological saline solution optionally including other typical ingredients such as other active agents and buffers .

As noted above in pharmaceutical dosage forms agents may be administered alone or with an appropriate association as well as in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds. As used herein administered with means that at least one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant including one or more other pharmacological agents are administered at times sufficiently close that the results observed are indistinguishable from those achieved when one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant including one or more other pharmacological agents are administered at the same point in time. The pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant may be administered simultaneously i.e. concurrently or sequentially. Simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing at least one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant prior to administration or by administering the pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant at the same point in time. Such administration may be at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration. The phrases concurrent administration administration in combination simultaneous administration or administered simultaneously may also be used interchangeably and mean that at least one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant are administered at the same point in time or immediately following one another. In the latter case the at least one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant are administered at times sufficiently close that the results produced are synergistic and or are indistinguishable from those achieved when the at least one pharmacological agent and at least one other adjuvant are administered at the same point in time. Alternatively a pharmacological agent may be administered separately from the administration of an adjuvant which may result in a synergistic effect or a separate effect. The methods and excipients described herein are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.

Unit dosage forms for oral or rectal administration such as syrups elixirs and suspensions may be provided wherein each dosage unit for example teaspoonful tablespoonful tablet or suppository contains a predetermined amount of a pharmacological agent. Similarly unit dosage forms for injection or intravenous or other suitable administration route may include the pharmacological agent s in a composition as a solution in sterile water normal saline or another pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The term unit dosage form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human and animal subjects each unit containing a predetermined quantity of pharmacological agent calculated in an amount sufficient to produce the desired effect in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or vehicle. The specifications for the unit dosage forms of pharmacological agents of the present invention depend on for example the particular pharmacological agent s employed and the effect to be achieved the pharmacodynamics associated with the particular pharmacological agent s in the subject etc.

Embodiments include administering an effective amount of a first agent and an effective amount of a second agent. For example embodiments may include administering a first agent and a second agent to provide an enhanced therapeutic effect. By enhanced therapeutic effect is meant that at least the desired outcome occurs more quickly and or is of greater magnitude with a combination of the pharmacological agents as compared to the same doses of each component given alone or that doses of one or all component s are below what would otherwise be a minimum effective dose a sub MED .

Any two pharmacological agents may be given in close enough temporal proximity to allow their individual therapeutic effects to overlap. For example embodiments of the subject invention include the co timely administration of a first and second agent where co timely is meant administration of a second pharmacological agent while a first pharmacological agent is still present in a subject in a therapeutically effective amount. It is to be understood that in some instances this will require sequential administration. Alternatively multiple routes of administration may be employed e.g. intravenous or subcutaneous injection combined with oral administration and the like.

Embodiments also include pharmaceutical compositions in unit dosage forms that are useful which contain more than one type of pharmacological agent. In other words a single agent administration entity may include two or more pharmacological agents. For example a single tablet capsule dragee trocheem suppository syringe and the like combining two or more pharmacological agents would be a unit dosage form. The therapeutic agents present in a unit dosage form may be present in amounts such that upon administration of one or more unit doses of the composition a subject experiences e.g. a longer lasting efficacy than with the administration of either agent alone and or greater magnitude and or quicker lowering of action. Such compositions may be included as part of a therapeutic package in which one or more unit doses are placed in a finished pharmaceutical container. Labeling may be included to provide directions for using the composition according to the invention. The actual amounts of each agent in such single unit dosage forms may vary according to the specific compositions being utilized the particular compositions formulated the mode of application the particular route of administration and the like where dosages for a given subject may be determined using conventional considerations e.g. by customary comparison of the differential activities of the subject compositions and of a known agent or by means of an appropriate conventional pharmacological protocol.

As noted above certain embodiments include employing electrical modulation in a manner effective to cause the desired enhancement according to the subject methods.

Any suitable area may be targeted for electrical modulation. Areas that may be targeted include but are not limited to pre and post ganglionic nerve fibers as well as ganglionic structures efferent and afferent nerve fibers synapses etc. and combinations thereof in certain embodiments. In certain embodiments activity in a given nerve fiber may be electrically modulated in more than one area of the nerve fiber. In certain embodiments electrical energy is applied to modulate synaptic efficiency e.g. to increase or decrease the sensitivity of a synapse and include modulating presynaptic neurons.

As such areas which may be targeted with electrical energy include but are not limited to pre and post ganglionic nerve fibers ganglionic structures efferent and afferent nerve fibers the hypothalamus receptors any receptor described herein afferent autonomic nerves sympathetic and parasympathetic . Embodiments include receptors of the hypothalamus including hormonal receptors on the hypothalamus. In certain embodiments a given nerve fiber or the like may be targeted for electrical modulation in more than one area of the nerve fiber. Targeted areas of the nervous system which may be targeted in accordance with the subject invention include but are not limited to vagus nerve optic ganglion and sphenopalatine ganglion internal carotid nerve and plexus middle and superior cervical sympathetic ganglion vertebral ganglion cervicothoracic ganglion sympathetic trunk cervical cardiac nerves cardiac plexus thoracic aortic plexus celiac ganglion celiac trunk and plexus superior mesenteric ganglion superior mesenteric artery and plexus intermesenteric plexus inferior mesenteric ganglion inferior mesenteric artery and plexus superior hypogastric plexus hypogastric nerves vesical plexus thoracic cardiac nerves sympathetic trunk 6th thoracic sympathetic ganglion gray and white rami communicantes greater lesser and least splanchnic nerves aorticorenal ganglion lumbar splanchnic nerves gray rami communicantes and sacral splanchnic nerves and the like or a combination of two or more of the above.

A number of different devices may be employed in accordance with the subject invention. For example device and systems for applying electrical energy to a subject and which may be adapted for use in the subject invention are described e.g. in copending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 661 368 10 871 366 and elsewhere the disclosures of the US patent applications are herein incorporated by reference. Such devices may be positioned directly on a targeted area e.g. positioned below the skin of a subject directly on or adjacent a portion of the nervous system e.g. one or more nerve fibers such as an implantable device or may be an external device i.e. some or all of the device may be external to the subject . In accordance with the subject invention one or more electrodes or electrical contacts may be positioned directly on or adjacent a targeted area where the one or more electrodes may be surgically implanted e.g. directly on or adjacent a targeted nerve fiber of a subject. In certain embodiments an immunomodulator such as a steroid or the like may be incorporated into a surface contacting area of a device e.g. to minimize inflammation of the targeted site.

An electric energy applying device typically includes a stimulator such as an electrode a controller or programmer and one or more connectors for connecting the stimulating device to the controller. In certain embodiments more than one electrode may be employed. In further describing representative electrodes such are described in the singular but it will be apparent that more than one electrode may be used where such may be the same or may be different in one or more aspects. Accordingly the description of an exemplary electrode suitable for use in the subject methods is applicable to other electrodes that may be employed.

The electrode employed in the subject invention is controllable to provide output signals that may be varied in voltage frequency pulse width current and intensity. The electrode may be one that provides both positive and negative current flow from the electrode and or may be capable of stopping current flow from the electrode and or changing the direction of current flow from the electrode. For example embodiments include an electrode that is controllable in these respects i.e. controllable in regards to producing positive and negative current flow from the electrode stop current flow from the electrode change direction of current flow from the electrode and the like. In certain embodiments the electrode has the capacity for variable output linear output and short pulse width.

The energy source for the electrical output may be provided by a battery or generator such as a pulse generator that is operatively connected to the electrode. The energy source may be positioned in any suitable location such as adjacent to the electrode e.g. implanted adjacent the electrode or a remote site in or on the subject s body or away from the subject s body in a remote location and the electrode may then be connected to the remotely positioned energy source using wires e.g. may be implanted at a site remote from the electrode or positioned outside the subject s body in certain instances. Of interest are implantable generators analogous to a cardiac pacemaker.

The electrode may be mono polar bipolar or multi polar. In order to minimize the risk of an immune response triggered by the subject against the device and minimize damage such as corrosion and the like to the device from other biological fluids etc. the electrode and any wires and optional housing materials are made of inert materials such as for example silicon metal plastic and the like. For example a multi polar electrode having about four exposed contacts e.g. cylindrical contacts may be employed .

A controller or programmer may also be coupled with an electric energy applying device. The programmer is typically one or more microprocessors under the control of a suitable software program. Other components of the programmer will be apparent to those of skill in the art e.g. analog to digital converter etc. The electric energy applying device may be pre programmed for desired parameters. In certain embodiments the parameters are controllable such that the electrode signal may be remotely modulated to desired settings without removal of the electrode from its targeted position. Remote control may be performed e.g. using conventional telemetry with an implanted electric signal generator and battery an implanted radiofrequency receiver coupled to an external transmitter and the like. In certain embodiments some or all parameters of the electrode may be controllable by the subject e.g. without supervision by a physician. For example a magnetic signal may be employed. In such embodiments one or more magnets may be employed such that upon bringing a magnet in proximity to or away from the power source such as a pulse generator the magnet may be employed to interfere with the electronic circuitry thus modulating the power either increasing or decreasing the power supplied depending on whether the magnet is brought in proximity or moved away from the power source.

The present invention may be operated as an open loop controlled system. In an open loop system the physician or patient may at any time manually or by the use of pumps or motorized elements adjust treatment parameters such as pulse amplitude pulse width pulse frequency or duty cycle. Optionally the present invention may incorporate a closed loop control system which may automatically adjust the electrical parameters in response to a sensed parameter or condition of a subject. Under a closed loop feedback system to provide automatic adjustment of parameters of the electrodes a sensor that senses a condition of the body is utilized. More detailed descriptions of sensors that may be employed in the practice of the subject invention and other examples of sensors and feedback control techniques that may be employed are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 716 377 which is incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in the distal end of lead terminates in one or more delivery elements such as stimulation electrodes which may be implanted using conventional surgical techniques. The type of treatment that is desired determines the location of the electrodes. Any number of electrodes may be used for various applications. Each of the electrodes may be individually connected to energy source through lead and conductors and . Lead may be surgically implanted either by a laminotomy or by a needle.

Energy source or signal generator may be programmed to provide a predetermined stimulation or inhibition dosage in terms of pulse amplitude pulse width pulse frequency or duty cycle. As shown a programmer may be utilized to provide stimulation or inhibition parameters to the delivery device via any suitable technology e.g. using telemetry and the like. For example in using telemetry programmer may be coupled to an antenna via conductor . In certain embodiments the programmer may be positioned e.g. implanted inside body . For example in certain embodiments the programmer may be integrated with the energy source electrode etc. for example as a single unit.

Device may optionally include one or more sensors to provide closed loop feedback control of the treatment and or electrode positioning. One or more sensors not shown may be attached to or implanted into a portion of a subject s body suitable for detecting a physical and or chemical indicator of the subject. For example sensing feedback may be accomplished e.g. by a mechanical measure within a lead or an ultrasound or other sensor to provide information about the treatment parameters lead positioning LTP etc.

Operative placement of a suitable electric energy applying device may be accomplished using any suitable technique. An electrode introducer needle may be employed to implant the electrode on or proximate to the area of interest. The size of the introducer needle may vary depending on the diameter of the electrode etc. where in certain embodiments the electrode introducer needle may be a 12 gauge 14 gauge 16 gauge 18 gauge 20 gauge needle or 22 gauge needle e.g. an electrode introducer needle available from Radionics in the Sluyter Mehta kit as SMK 100 mm 2 mm active tip cannula. However it should be understood that other electrode introducer needles may be used as appropriate to the needs and skill level of the practitioner performing the surgical procedure.

At least one imaging apparatus such as a CT scan MRI apparatus ultrasound apparatus fluoroscope or the like may be employed to monitor the surgical. For exemplary purposes only the subject method will be described using a fluoroscope where such is in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention. The subject is placed in a suitable position for access e.g. supine on a fluoroscopy table with the patient s nose pointing vertically. The fluoroscope is then adjusted to a straight lateral position. And the entry point for the insertion of the electrode is determined.

Once the entry point is determined the skin overlying the entry point is shaved and prepared with antiseptic solution. A 25 gauge needle may be used to inject a subcutaneous local anesthetic such as for example 2 cc of 2 lidocaine into the skin and subcutaneous tissues overlying the entry point. In addition to the local anesthetic the patient may be given intravenous sedation and prophylactic antibiotics prior to commencement of the implantation procedure if desired.

The electrode introducer needle is inserted at the entry point and advanced. The fluoroscope may be adjusted as the needle is advanced. Once the needle is positioned the stylet is withdrawn from the electrode introducer needle. Once the implanted electrode is in place the end of the electrode that is outside the skin is carefully held in place against the skin. The electrode introducer needle may then be slowly removed leaving the implanted electrode in place. At this point if desired a few small subcutaneous sutures may be placed around the electrode to hold it in the desired position.

Once the needle has been completely removed and the implanted electrode is in the final position then the proximal part of the electrode that is coming out of the skin may be secured to the skin of the subject e.g. by adhesive tape. Additionally a small incision may be made on the skin at the area the electrode exits the face. Then several subcutaneous sutures may be placed around the electrode to hold it in place. The distal end of the electrode may then be connected to an extension wire or catheter which is tunneled to the subclavicular area or another region which will house the device used as an energy source for the implanted electrode. The device or devices used to control the electrode may be surgically implanted in the desired region by procedures known in the art such as have been applied in surgical neuromodulation therapies used to treat Parkinson s disease.

In certain embodiments of the subject invention an electrode may be utilized which instead of or in addition to delivering electric impulses to at least a portion of the autonomic nervous system delivers a pharmacological agent to at least a portion of the autonomic nervous system. For example an electrode may be used that has a small port at its tip which is connected to a reservoir or pump containing a pharmacological agent. The pharmacological agent delivery electrode may be implanted using an analogous procedure as that described above for the autonomic system modulating electrode. In certain embodiments the reservoir or pump may also be implanted in the subject s body analogous to that described above for the electrical impulse generator. The pharmacological agent delivery electrode may be controllable such that the amount of pharmacological agent delivered the rate at which the pharmacological agent may be delivered and the time period over which the pharmacological agent is delivered may be adjusted.

In embodiments in which electrical energy is used any suitable protocol may be used where certain protocols include using an electric energy applying device to deliver a suitable amount of electrical energy to a subject. Once an electric energy applying device is positioned in a suitable position on or about one or more targeted areas electrical energy is applied thereto for a period of time sufficient to provide the desired effect. This period of time will vary depending on the area e.g. the nerve fiber being treated the condition being treated etc. Certain embodiments include simultaneously monitoring i.e. in real time the aspect of the nervous system such that a given nerve fiber may be electrically stimulated or electrically inhibited until the desired result is observed. Still further in many embodiments once the desired result is achieved a targeted area may be repeatedly electrically stimulated or inhibited one or more times to maintain the desired state such that the subject methods may be repeated one or more times i.e. the subject methods include chronically applying electrical energy to a subject such as chronically applying electrical energy to one or more nerve fibers. For example in certain embodiments electrical stimulation e.g. intermittent mild electrical pulses may be delivered to a given area of the nervous system twenty four hours a day for a period of days weeks months or even years in certain embodiments.

During the period of time that electrical energy is applied to a given area the electrical energy may be substantially continuous including continuous or intermittent i.e. pulsed or periodic where in many embodiments the electrical energy is in the form of electrical pulses. In other words in certain embodiments electrical energy may be given continuously during the above described period of time and in certain embodiments electrical energy may be given to an area in a pulsed or intermittent manner during the period of time described above. In accordance with the subject methods to apply electrical energy to a subject once operatively positioned the electric energy applying device is activated to provide an electrical signal to the targeted area in a manner effective to practice the subject methods.

In practicing the subject methods activation of the electric energy applying device directly applies the electrical output of the device i.e. electrical impulses to the targeted area. The exact parameters of the applied electrical energy may vary depending on the particular subject condition being treated etc. For example an electronic current wave may be provided when the electrical energy is applied. In certain embodiments the current wave includes current waves of high frequency e.g. high frequency pulses where the current wave may also include low frequency amplitude modulation. In certain embodiments a plurality of high frequency bursts of current pulses may be applied in addition to the application of underlying low frequency continuous stimulus. Stimulation may be monopolar or multipolar.

For example to stimulate a targeted area voltage or intensity may range from about 1 millivolt to about 1 volt or more e.g. 0.1 volt to about 50 volts e.g. from about 0.2 volt to about 20 volts and the frequency may range from about 1 Hz to about 2500 Hz e.g. about 1 Hz to about 1000 Hz e.g. from about 2 Hz to about 100 Hz in certain embodiments. In certain embodiments a pure d c voltages may be employed. The pulse width may range from about 1 microsecond to about 2000 microseconds or more e.g. from about 10 microseconds to about 2000 microseconds e.g. from about 15 microseconds to about 1000 microseconds e.g. from about 25 microseconds to about 1000 microseconds. The electrical output may be applied for at least about 1 millisecond or more e.g. about 1 second e.g. about several seconds where in certain embodiments the stimulation may be applied for as long as about 1 minute or more e.g. about several minutes or more e.g. about 30 minutes or more may be used in certain embodiments.

In certain embodiments a control feedback loop is provided. For example during or following a particular electric energy applying protocol a biological aspect of a subject may be monitored e.g. by sensing conduction in a neuronal system e.g. in a particular electrically stimulated nerve fiber or by any suitable method. For example a sensor suitable for detecting nerve cell or axon activity may be implanted in a portion of a subject s body. A sensor may take the form of an electrode or the like. Signals received by such a sensor may be amplified before further processing. A sensor may also take the form of a device capable of detecting nerve compound action potentials or may take the form of a transducer that includes an electrode with an ion selective coating applied which is capable of directly transducing the amount of a particular transmitter substance or its breakdown by products. In utilizing a feedback system if a predetermined detection criteria is not detected the same or a different stimulus protocol may be performed and may be automatically initiated under the control of a controller. For example in those instances where a different protocol is performed one or more of the electrical energy applying parameters may be modified e.g. the pulse width may be increased or the like in the second protocol.

The subject methods find use in a variety of applications as reviewed above. By treatment is meant that at least an amelioration of the symptoms associated with the condition afflicting the host is achieved where amelioration is used in a broad sense to refer to at least a reduction in the magnitude of a parameter e.g. symptom associated with the condition being treated. As such treatment also includes situations where the pathological condition or at least symptoms associated therewith are completely inhibited e.g. prevented from happening or stopped e.g. terminated such that the host no longer suffers from the condition or at least the symptoms that characterize the condition.

A variety of hosts are treatable according to the subject methods. In certain embodiments such hosts are mammals or mammalian where these terms are used broadly to describe organisms which are within the class mammalia including the orders carnivore e.g. dogs and cats rodentia e.g. mice guinea pigs and rats and primates e.g. humans chimpanzees and monkeys . In many embodiments the hosts will be humans.

As indicated above the subject methods may be used in the treatment of a variety of different disease conditions including but not limited to cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis coronary artery disease hypertension hyperlipidemia eclampsia pre eclampsia cardiomyopathy volume retention congestive heart failure QT interval prolongation aortic dissection aortic aneurysm arterial aneurysm arterial vasospasm myocardial infarction reperfusion syndrome ischemia sudden adult death syndrome fatal arrythmias coronary syndromes coronary vasospasm sick sinus syndrome bradycardia tachycardia arrhythmias thromboembolic disease deep vein thrombosis coagulopathy DIC mesenteric ischemia syncope venous thrombosis arterial thrombosis malignant hypertension secondary hypertension primary pulmonary hypertension secondary pulmonary hypertension Raynaud s paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and the like neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer s Pick s Parkinson s amyotrophic lateral sclerosis neuroinflammatory diseases viral meningitis viral encephalitis fungal meningitis fungal encephalitis multiple sclerosis charcot joint schizophrenia and the like orthopedic inflammatory diseases such as osteoarthritis reflex sympathetic dystrophy osteoporosis regional idiopathic osteoporosis Paget s disease juvenile chronic arthritis antigen induced arthritis and the like inflammatory conditions such as ARDS multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis migraines chronic headaches and the like lymphoproliferative diseases such as lymphoma lymphoproliferative disease Hodgkin s disease inflammatory pseudotumor of the liver and the like autoimmune diseases such as Graves disease Hashimoto s Takayasu s disease Kawasaki s disease arteritis scleroderma CREST syndrome allergies dermatitis Henoch Schlonlein purpura goodpasture syndrome autoimmune thyroiditis myasthenia gravis lupus Reiter s syndrome and the like inflammatory and infectious diseases such as sepsis diseases of wound healing viral infections wound healing tuberculosis infection fungal infections AIDS human immunodeficiency virus and the like pulmonary diseases such as tachypnea fibrotic lung diseases cystic fibrosis interstitial lung disease desquamative interstitial pneumonitis non specific interstitial pneumonitis lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis usual interstitial pneumonitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary edema aspiration asphyxiation pneumothorax right to left shunts left to right shunts respiratory failure and the like gastrointestinal disorders such as hepatitis xerostomia bowel mobility constipation irritable bowel syndrome peptic ulcer disease ileus post operative bowel dysmotility inflammatory bowel disease typhlitis cholelithiasis cholestosis fecal incontinence cyclic vomiting syndrome diverticulitis diverticulosis and the like endocrine disorders such as hypothyroidism diabetes obesity syndrome X hyperglycemia insulin resistance PCOS and the like genitourinary disorders such as bladder dysfunction renal failure erectile dysfunction hyperreninemia hepatorenal syndrome pulmonary renal syndrome incontinence arousal disorders menopausal mood disorders premenstrual mood disorders and the like skin disorders such as wrinkles cutaneous vasculitis and the like aging associated diseases and conditions such as shy dragers multi symptom atrophy age related inflammation conditions cancer aging and the like Th 2 dominant such as diseases typhlitis osteoporosis lymphoma myasthenia gravis lupus and the like conditions that cause hypoxia hypercarbia and or acidosis such as COPD emphysema any chronic lung disease that causes acidosis sudden infant death syndrome sudden adult death syndrome acute pulmonary embolism chronic pulmonary embolism pleural effusion cardiogenic pulmonary edema non cardiogenic pulmonary edema acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS neurogenic edema acidosis of any causehypercapnia acidemia renal tubular acidosis asthma any chronic lung disease that causes hypoxia or hypercarbia or hypercapnia and the like Neurologic diseases such as epilepsy seizures stroke insomnia sleep disorders cerebral vascular accident transient ischemic attacks headaches concussions post concussive syndrome cerebral vascular vasospasm central sleep apnea obstructive sleep apnea stress bipolar disorder migraines chronic headaches ADEM depression and the like pediatric conditions e.g. respiratory distress syndrome sudden infant death syndrome Hirschsprung s disease bronchopulmonary dysplasia congenital megacolon aganglionosis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile chronic arthritis and the like OB GYN diseases e.g. amniotic fluid embolism pregnancy related arrhythmias fetal stress fetal hypoxia amniotic fluid embolism gestational diabetes pre term labor cervical incompetence fetal distress peri partum maternal mortality labor complications premenstrual syndrome dysmenorrhea endometriosis and the like as well as other conditions including but not limited to chronic pain glaucoma trauma hospitalization post operative recovery post procedural recovery transplant related side effects fibrosis transplant related tachycardia transplant rejection transplant related bowel dysmotility transplant related hyperreninemia male infertility disorders of thermoregulation fibromyalgia and the like menstrual related disorders e.g. pelvic pain dysmenorrhea gi disease nausea etc. peripartum and pregnancy related disorders peripartum cardiomyopathy sickle cell disease reperfusion injury central serous choroidoretinopathy stress post traumatic stress disorder gulf war syndrome etc.

The subject invention includes computer readable media having programming stored thereon for implementing the subject methods. For example the subject invention may include suitable computing means such as suitable hardware software for performing the subject methods.

In certain embodiments programming may control a device to administer a pharmacological agent to a subject e.g. programming may be configured to determine suitable dosage etc. In certain embodiments programming may control a device to administer electrical energy to a subject e.g. may control the activation termination of electrical energy including selecting suitable electrical parameters. Programming may be configured to or otherwise be capable of directing a microprocessor to activate i.e. turn on and off an electric energy applying device for applying energy to a subject. For example if so determined the processor may direct the electric energy applying device to provide the appropriate energy to result in the desired action. Accordingly a processor may select the appropriate parameters e.g. frequency amplitude etc. depending on what is required and direct an electric energy applying device to implement the parameters.

Programming according to the subject invention may be recorded on computer readable media e.g. any medium that can be read and accessed directly or indirectly by a computer. Such media include but are not limited to computer disk or CD a floppy disc a magnetic hard card a server magnetic tape optical storage such as CD ROM and DVD electrical storage media such as RAM and ROM and the hybrids of these categories such as magnetic optical storage media. One of skill in the art can readily appreciate how any of the presently known computer readable mediums may be used to provide a manufacture that includes a recording of the present programming algorithm for carrying out the above described methodology. Thus the computer readable media may be for example in the form of any of the above described media or any other computer readable media capable of containing programming stored electronically magnetically optically or by other means. As such stored programming embodying steps for carrying out some or all of the subject methods may be transferred to a computer operated apparatus such as a personal computer PC or the like by physical transfer of a CD floppy disk or like medium or may be transferred using a computer network server or other interface connection e.g. the Internet.

For example the subject invention may include a computer readable medium that includes stored programming embodying an algorithm for carrying out the subject methods where such an algorithm is used to direct a processor or series of processors to execute the steps necessary to perform the task s required of it and as such in certain embodiments the subject invention includes a computer based system for carrying out some or all of the subject methods. For example such a stored algorithm may be configured to or otherwise be capable of directing a microprocessor to receive information directly or indirectly from data gathering means and process that information to determine if intervention is required. The result of that processing may be communicated to a user e.g. via audio and or visual means e.g. the algorithm may also include steps or functions for generating a variety of profile graphs plots etc.

The subject invention may also include a data set of known or reference information stored on a computer readable medium to which data collected may be compared for use in determining a given treatment regimen. The data may be stored or configured in a variety of arrangements known to those of skill in the art.

Also provided are kits for practicing the subject methods. Kits may include an electric energy applying device as described above. Devices for delivering e.g. implanting an electric energy applying device to a target site of a subject such as into the body cavity of a subject may also be included in the subject kits. For example an endoscope introducer needle and the like may be provided. The subject kits may also include one or more pharmacological agents as described above. The dosage amount of the one or more pharmacological agents provided in a kit may be sufficient for a single application or for multiple applications. Accordingly in certain embodiments of the subject kits a single dosage amount of a pharmacological agent is present and in certain other embodiments multiple dosage amounts of a pharmacological agent may be present in a kit. In those embodiments having multiple dosage amounts of pharmacological agent such may be packaged in a single container e.g. a single tube bottle vial and the like or one or more dosage amounts may be individually packaged such that certain kits may have more than one container of a pharmacological agent.

Suitable means for delivering one or more pharmacological agents to a subject may also be provided in a subject kit. The particular delivery means provided in a kit is dictated by the particular pharmacological agent employed as describe above e.g. the particular form of the agent such as whether the pharmacological agent is formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants and aerosols and the like and the particular mode of administration of the agent e.g. whether oral buccal rectal parenteral intraperitoneal intradermal transdermal intracheal etc. Accordingly certain systems may include a suppository applicator syringe I.V. bag and tubing electrode etc.

The subject kits may also include instructions for how to practice the subject methods using the components of the kit. The instructions may be recorded on a suitable recording medium or substrate. For example the instructions may be printed on a substrate such as paper or plastic etc. As such the instructions may be present in the kits as a package insert in the labeling of the container of the kit or components thereof i.e. associated with the packaging or sub packaging etc. In other embodiments the instructions are present as an electronic storage data file present on a suitable computer readable storage medium e.g. CD ROM diskette etc. In yet other embodiments the actual instructions are not present in the kit but means for obtaining the instructions from a remote source e.g. via the internet are provided. An example of this embodiment is a kit that includes a web address where the instructions can be viewed and or from which the instructions can be downloaded. As with the instructions this means for obtaining the instructions is recorded on a suitable substrate.

Some or all components of the subject kits may be packaged in suitable packaging to maintain sterility. In many embodiments of the subject kits the components of the kit are packaged in a kit containment element to make a single easily handled unit where the kit containment element e.g. box or analogous structure may or may not be an airtight container e.g. to further preserve the sterility of some or all of the components of the kit.

In further describing the subject invention a number of representative embodiments are described below in greater detail.

In one representative embodiment the subject methods include applying a pharmacological stimulus from an implantable drug delivery device in a manner effective to provide for the desired compensatory response in the subject. A feature of certain of these embodiments is that the implantable device delivers drug in a manner effective to cause the subject in which the device is implanted to mount the desired compensatory response as described above. In certain embodiments the implantable devices deliver agent to the subject in which they are implanted in a manner that is discontinuous or pulsed so as to achieve the desired stimulus of limited temporal duration.

Any of a variety of controlled drug delivery devices can be used in these embodiments of the present invention to accomplish delivery of a drug formulation according to the subject invention. In general the drug delivery device minimally comprises a controlled drug delivery device and in one embodiment further comprises a drug delivery catheter e.g. where the implantation site is distant from the delivery site.

Drug delivery devices suitable for use with the present invention can take advantage of any of a variety of controlled drug release devices. In general the drug release devices suitable for use in the invention comprise a drug reservoir for retaining a drug formulation or alternatively some substrate or matrix which can hold drug e.g. polymer binding solid etc. . The drug release device can be selected from any of a variety of implantable controlled drug delivery system known in the art. Controlled drug release devices suitable for use in the present invention generally can provide for delivery of the drug from the device at a selected or otherwise patterned amount and or rate to a selected site in the subject.

In representative embodiments implantable infusion devices include a generally disc shaped housing having a diameter dimension and a thickness dimension. The thickness dimension of the device is dependent at least in part upon the relative placement of device components and the thickness dimensions of the device components. Such devices typically include a reservoir located within the housing for holding a volume of an infusion medium for example a liquid medication. Such devices also typically include an inlet for receiving infusion medium into the reservoir to fill or re fill the reservoir for example from a hollow needle such as a syringe needle.

In addition implantable infusion devices may include a driving mechanism such as a pump for controlling the flow of infusion medium from the reservoir to the patient through an outlet in the housing either on a continuous basis at scheduled or programmed times or in response to signals from a sensor or other signal source. Other devices include pressurized gas sources for driving infusion medium from the reservoir. Each of those components define a thickness dimension which depending upon their placement on the device may affect the overall thickness dimension of the implantable infusion device.

Example implantable infusion devices are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 527 307 U.S. Pat. No. 5 514 103 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 176 644 each to Srisathapat et al. and assigned to Minimed Technologies Ltd. U.S. Pat. No. 5 167 633 to Mann et al. and assigned to Pacesetter Infusion Ltd U.S. Pat. No. 4 697 622 to Swift assigned to Parker Hannifin Corporation and U.S. Pat. No. 4 573 994 to Fischell et al. assigned to The Johns Hopkins University each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Each of the above cited patents describes an implantable infusion device which includes a generally disc shaped housing containing a reservoir a driving mechanism or pump an inlet an outlet and an electronic circuit for controlling the operation of the driving mechanism or pump.

In certain embodiments the infusion pump employed is part of a closed loop system. The infusion pump system according to these embodiments of the invention employs a pump for delivering measured doses of an infusion formulation. In one embodiment the pump comprises an electromagnetic mechanism that is activated to selectively drive infusion formulation to the user. The pump may be activated according to a programmed dispensing rate or schedule or according to an actuation signal from a sensing device timer manual operator or other suitable means. In certain embodiments the pump may be activated by a control signal communicated to the pump from a computing element which may be included in the infusion pump system.

The infusion pump system according to these embodiments of the invention further employs a sensing device for monitoring a selected biological state.

The infusion pump system according to these embodiments of the invention further employs a computing element which may along with other pump control functions execute a closed loop algorithm which may continuously adjust infusion formulation delivery as a function of the sensed biological state. The computing element may comprise one or more programmable processors logic circuits or other hardware firmware or software components configured for implementing the control functions described herein.

The infusion pump system according to certain embodiments of the invention further employs a communication device for communicating user initiated signals to the computing element. The user initiated signals may be representative of events that affect the selected biological state. In one embodiment the communication device communicates with the computing element via a radio frequency RF transceiver. However in other embodiments other suitable means of data communication may be employed such as for example ultrasonics.

Representative closed loop systems of interest are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 827 702 6 740 072 and 6 558 351 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments the delivery device is one that is adapted for delivery of an agent over extended periods of time such as discontinuously over extended periods of time. Such delivery devices may be adapted for administration of an agent for several hours e.g. 2 hours 12 hours or 24 hours to 48 hours or more to several days e.g. 2 to 5 days or more from about 100 days or more to several months or years with intermissions of non delivery e.g. referred to as holiday periods above. As such the devices are configured to deliver a discontinuous or pulsed delivery of an agent over an extended period of time where the pulsed delivery may in certain embodiments be characterized as irregularly irregular as described above.

Release of drug from the device particularly controlled release of drug can be accomplished in any of a variety of ways according to methods well known in the art e.g. by incorporation of drug into a polymer that provides for substantially controlled diffusion of drug from within the polymer incorporation of drug in a biodegradable polymer providing for delivery of drug from an osmotically driven device etc. Where the drug delivery device comprises a drug delivery catheter drug can be delivered through the drug delivery catheter to the delivery site as a result of capillary action as a result of pressure generated from the drug release device by diffusion by electrodiffusion or by electroosmosis through the device and or the catheter.

The drug delivery device must be capable of carrying the drug formulation in such quantities and concentration as therapeutically required and must provide sufficient protection to the formulation from attack by body processes for the duration of implantation and delivery. The exterior is thus preferably made of a material that has properties to diminish the risk of leakage cracking breakage or distortion so as to prevent expelling of its contents in an uncontrolled manner under stresses it would be subjected to during use e.g. due to physical forces exerted upon the drug release device as a result of movement by the subject or physical forces associated with pressure generated within the reservoir associated with drug delivery. The drug reservoir or other means for holding or containing the drug must also be of such material as to avoid unintended reactions with the active agent formulation and is preferably biocompatible e.g. where the device is implanted it is substantially non reactive with respect to a subject s body or body fluids .

Suitable materials for the reservoir or drug holding for use in the delivery devices of the invention are well known in the art. For example the reservoir material may comprise a non reactive polymer or a biocompatible metal or alloy. Suitable polymers include but are not necessarily limited to acrylonitrile polymers such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polymer and the like halogenated polymers such as polytetrafluoroethylene polyurethane polychlorotrifluoroethylene copolymer tetrafluoroethylene and hexafluoropropylene polyethylene vinylacetate EVA polyimide polysulfone polycarbonate polyethylene polypropylene polyvinylchloride acrylic copolymer polycarbonate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polystyrene cellulosic polymers and the like. Further exemplary polymers are described in The Handbook of Common Polymers Scott and Roff CRC Press Cleveland Rubber Co. Cleveland Ohio.

Metallic materials suitable for use in the reservoir of the drug release device include stainless steel titanium platinum tantalum gold and their alloys gold plated ferrous alloys platinum plated titanium stainless steel tantalum gold and their alloys as well as other ferrous alloys cobalt chromium alloys and titanium nitride coated stainless steel titanium platinum tantalum gold and their alloys.

Exemplary materials for use in polymeric matrices include but are not necessarily limited to biocompatible polymers including biostable polymers and biodegradable polymers. Exemplary biostable polymers include but are not necessarily limited to silicone polyurethane polyether urethane polyether urethane urea polyamide polyacetal polyester poly ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or Teflon styrene butadiene rubber polyethylene polypropylene polyphenylene oxide polystyrene poly a chloro p xylene polymethylpentene polysulfone and other related biostable polymers. Exemplary biodegradable polymers include but are not necessarily limited to polyanhydrides cyclodestrans polylactic glycolic acid polyorthoesters n vinyl alcohol polyethylene oxide polyethylene terephthalate polyglycolic acid polylactic acid and other related bioabsorbable polymers.

Where the drug formulation is stored in a reservoir comprising metal or a metal alloy particularly titanium or a titanium alloy having greater than 60 often greater than 85 titanium is preferred for the most size critical applications for high payload capability and for long duration applications and for those applications where the formulation is sensitive to body chemistry at the implantation site or where the body is sensitive to the formulation. Most preferably the drug delivery devices are designed for storage with drug at room temperature or higher.

Drug release devices suitable for use in the invention may be based on any of a variety of modes of operation. For example the drug release device can be based upon a diffusive system a system that employs positive pressure etc. For example the drug release device may be based upon an electrodiffusion system an electrolytic pump an effervescent pump a piezoelectric pump a hydrolytic system etc.

Drug release devices based upon a mechanical or electromechanical infusion pump can also be suitable for use with the present invention. Examples of such devices include those described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 692 147 4 360 019 4 487 603 4 360 019 4 725 852 WO 97 27840 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 985 305 and 5 728 396 and the like.

In one embodiment the drug release device is a controlled drug release device in the form of an osmotically driven device. Exemplary osmotically driven devices suitable for use in the invention include but are not necessarily limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 760 984 3 845 770 3 916 899 3 923 426 3 987 790 3 995 631 3 916 899 4 016 880 4 036 228 4 111 202 4 111 203 4 203 440 4 203 442 4 210 139 4 327 725 4 627 850 4 865 845 5 057 318 5 059 423 5 112 614 5 137 727 5 234 692 5 234 693 5 728 396 and the like.

In some embodiments it may be desirable to provide a drug delivery catheter with the drug delivery device e.g. where the implantation site and the desired delivery site are not the same or adjacent. The drug delivery catheter is generally a substantially hollow elongate member having a first end or proximal end associated with the drug release device of the drug delivery device and a second end or distal end for delivery of the drug comprising formulation to a desired delivery site. Where a drug delivery catheter is used a first end of the drug delivery catheter is associated with or attached to the drug delivery device so that the lumen of the drug delivery catheter is in communication with the drug reservoir in the drug delivery device so that a formulation contained in a drug reservoir can move into the drug delivery catheter and out a delivery outlet of the catheter which is positioned at the desired delivery site.

The body of the catheter defines a lumen which lumen is to have a diameter compatible with providing leak proof delivery of drug formulation from the drug delivery device. The body of the catheter can be of any of a variety of dimensions and geometries e.g. curved substantially straight tapered etc. that can be selected according to their suitability for the intended site for drug delivery. The distal end of the drug delivery catheter can provide a distinct opening for delivery of drug or as a series of openings.

The drug delivery catheter may be produced from any of a variety of suitable materials and may be manufactured from the same or different material as the reservoir of the drug release device. Impermeable materials suitable for use in production of the controlled drug release device as described above are generally suitable for use in the production of the drug delivery catheter. Exemplary materials from which the drug delivery catheter can be manufactured include but are not necessarily limited to polymers metals glasses polyolefins high density polyethylene HDPE low density polyethylene LDPE linear low density polyethylene LLDPE polypropylene PP and the like nylons polyethylene terephthalate silicones urethanes liquid crystal polymers PEBAX HYTREL TEFLON perfluoroethylene PFE perfluoroalkoxy resins PFA poly methyl methacrylate PMMA multilaminates of polymer metals and or glass nitinol and the like.

The drug delivery catheter can comprise additional materials or agents e.g. coatings on the external or internal catheter body surface s to facilitate placement of the drug delivery catheter and or to provide other desirable characteristics to the catheter. For example the drug delivery catheter inner and or outer walls can be coated with silver or otherwise coated or treated with antimicrobial agents thus further reducing the risk of infection at the site of implantation and drug delivery.

In certain embodiments a subject is treated for hypertension using an implantable drug delivery device. In these embodiments the drug delivery device delivers a prohypertensive e.g. sympathetic bias enhancing agent in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response e.g. in the form of a long term decrease in sympathetic bias.

A variety of prohypertensive agents are known and may be employed. Representative prohypertensive agents include but are not limited to Aldosterone Alpha agonists angiotensin agonists calcium channel agonists corticotropin agonists anti diuretics dopamine agonists epinephrine and norepinephrine agonists glucorticoid agonists mineralocorticoid agonists oxycontin agonists renin agonists and vasopressin agonists. Representative agents for each of these classes are provided in Appendix B of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 650 192 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference. In addition representative agents for each of these classes are found in Pharmaprojects published by PJB Publishing Version 5.0 London UK November 2004 .

In certain embodiments the agent employed has sympathetic bias enhancing activity. By sympathetic bias enhancing activity it is meant that the agent when administered to a subject produces an increase in the sympathetic bias of the subject. Specifically the agent causes the ratio of sympathetic activity to parasympathetic activity in the subject to be increased. Methods of determining sympathetic activity and parasympathetic activity in a subject are known in the art. A given agent is considered to be a sympathetic bias enhancing agent if upon administration to a subject it causes an increase in the ratio of sympathetic to parasympathetic activities of at least about 2 fold such as at least about 5 fold including at least about 10 fold.

As indicated above the agent is administered to a subject in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response effective to treat the hypertension. In representative embodiments the sympathetic bias enhancing agent is administered to the subject in a manner such that a short term increase in sympathetic bias in the subject is achieved that results in the production of a long term decrease in sympathetic bias in the subject. The increase and decrease in sympathetic bias referred to above is in reference to the sympathetic bias prior to administration of the agent. In general the magnitude of the increase and decrease is at least about 2 fold such as at least about 5 fold including at least about 10 fold. In the most general sense the phrases short term and long term as used herein are relative to each other where the duration of sympathetic bias increase is considered short term if it is shorter than the resultant duration of sympathetic bias decrease e.g. by at least 1 day such as by at least 1 week including by at least 1 month. In representative embodiments short term increase in sympathetic bias has a duration of at least about 1 second such as at least about 1 minute including at least about 30 seconds but lasts no more than about 2 hours including no more than about 90 minutes such as no more than about 60 minutes. In representative embodiments the long term decrease in sympathetic bias has a duration of at least about 1 second such as at least about 12 hours including at least about 1 hour where the duration may be as long as 5 years or longer including as long as 1 month or longer.

In certain embodiments the short term increase in sympathetic bias is achieved by administering the agent in a manner such that the agent is active for only a short duration where by short duration is meant that the applied stimulus lasts for less than about 1 week e.g. less than about 3 days e.g. less than about 1 day e.g. less than about 12 hours where the duration of the applied stimulus may be even shorter.

Following delivery of the agent from the implanted device the subject is permitted to mount a compensatory response e.g. in the form of a long term decrease in sympathetic bias. In this step of the subject methods no additional sympathetic bias enhancing agent is administered to the subject. The duration of this period which may be a period between agent administration depending on the particular embodiment may vary. However in representative embodiments this period which may be referred to as a holiday period is at least about 1 day such as at least about 2 days including at least about 5 days at least about 10 days at least about 15 days or longer.

In certain embodiments the methods include close monitoring or supervision of the subject during and or after administration of the agent. This monitoring may be completely automated or at least in part performed manually e.g. by a health care professional. For example a health care professional can closely watch the subject following administration of the agent as well as during the holiday period following agent administration and based on this monitoring determine when a next dosage of agent should be delivered. Monitoring also assures that the sympathetic bias enhancement is not so severe as to be ultimately damaging to the subject at an unacceptable level. Certain aspects of the monitoring may be automated. For example following administration the subject may enter one or more physiological parameters into an automated system which uses the input parameters to automatically determine whether the subject is staying within a predetermined set of physiological parameters or whether intervention is necessary. In certain embodiments the automated monitoring system may also be integrated with an agent delivery device such that the system based on monitored parameters determines when next to administer a dose of agent the dosage of the next dose etc. As such the method may be characterized as administering a first dose to the subject and monitoring the subject for a response thereto. Following this first step the method further includes administering at least a second dose to the subject wherein the second dose is determined based on the monitored response to the first dose.

In certain embodiments doses of agent are administered to the subject in an irregularly irregular manner. As such dosages and timing thereof as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In certain embodiments a subject is treated for hypertension using an implantable electrostimulatory device. In these embodiments the electrostimulatory device delivers an electrical stimulus to a target site s of a subject in a manner effective to cause the subject to mount a compensatory response e.g. in the form of a long term decrease in sympathetic bias.

In certain embodiments the implantable device is operated in a manner that produces a sympathetic bias in a subject as described above. In certain embodiments the short term increase in sympathetic bias is achieved by applying the stimulus in a manner such that the agent is active for only a short duration where by short duration is meant that the applied stimulus lasts for less than about 1 week e.g. less than about 3 days e.g. less than about 1 day e.g. less than about 12 hours where the duration of the applied stimulus may be even shorter.

Following delivery of the agent from the implanted device the subject is permitted to mount a compensatory response e.g. in the form of a long term decrease in sympathetic bias. In this step of the subject methods no additional stimulus is applied to the subject. The duration of this period which may be a period between stimulus application depending on the particular embodiment may vary. However in representative embodiments this period which may be referred to as a holiday period is at least about 1 day such as at least about 2 days including at least about 5 days at least about 10 days at least about 15 days or longer.

In certain embodiments the methods include close monitoring or supervision of the subject during and or after administration of the agent. This monitoring may be completely automated or at least in part performed manually e.g. by a health care professional. For example a health care professional can closely watch the subject following stimulus application as well as during the holiday period following agent administration and based on this monitoring determine when a next stimulus should be applied. Monitoring also assures that the sympathetic bias enhancement is not so severe as to be ultimately damaging to the subject at an unacceptable level. Certain aspects of the monitoring may be automated. For example following stimulus application the subject may enter one or more physiological parameters into an automated system which uses the input parameters to automatically determine whether the subject is staying within a predetermined set of physiological parameters or whether intervention is necessary. In certain embodiments the automated monitoring system may also be integrated with the stimulatory device such that the system based on monitored parameters determines when next to administer a dose of agent the dosage of the next dose etc. As such the method may be characterized as administering a first stimulus to the subject and monitoring the subject for a response thereto. Following this first step the method further includes administering at least a second stimulus to the subject wherein the second stimulus is determined based on the monitored response to the first stimulus.

In certain embodiments doses of agent are administered to the subject in an irregularly irregular manner. As such dosages and timing thereof as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used e.g. amounts temperature etc. but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise parts are parts by weight molecular weight is weight average molecular weight temperature is in degrees Centigrade and pressure is at or near atmospheric.

One example of utilizing pulsed paradoxical therapy for the treatment of hypertension includes using an implanted neurostimulation device or combination of devices with pulsed stimulation of autonomic nerves. This device induces intermittent electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves to induce short intervals of increased blood pressure ranging from seconds to hours to increase dynamic range. Alternatively or in addition this device induces intermittent electrical stimulation of parasympathetic nerves to induce short intervals of decreased blood pressure ranging from seconds to hours to increase dynamic range. In addition one could use measured feedback to regulate the frequency and duration of pulsed therapies.

Double blinded randomized controlled studies are performed in a set of dogs with experimentally induced hypertension to demonstrate that intermittent electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves lowers blood pressure. Experiments are conducted on mongrel dogs of either sex weighing 14 17 kg. Dogs are prepared for study by being treated for ectoparasites and endoparasites in addition to being immunized for parvovirus canine distemper hepatitis parainfluenza and coronavirus. All experiments are conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Dogs are fed a low sodium diet supplemented with sodium chloride to achieve a sodium intake of 40 mmol d normal sodium intake . This dietary regimen provides a constant and known level of dietary sodium intake. Throughout the experimental protocol all dogs are allowed water ad libidum.

For implantation of the neurostimulation devices dogs are anesthetized with sodium thiamylal 30 mg kg IV for induction and then halothane 1 . Sympathetic nerves in candidate plexi are isolated and affixed to bipolar stimulating electrodes. Catheters are inserted via the femoral vessels into the aorta for direct arterial pressure measurement. All catheter lines are tunneled subcutaneously to the midscapular region of the back and exteriorized. A 10 day steady state control period precedes the experimental period for all subjects to allow for recovery from surgical instrumentation.

Throughout the experimental period dogs in the treatment group initially receive pulsed stimulation with pulse duration ranging from about 1 to about 10800 seconds at a frequency no less than 1 to about 1440 pulses per day. Dogs in the control group receive no stimulation during the experimental period. Measurement of systolic diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures are obtained via pressure transducer on an ongoing basis. Measurements continue for a recovery period of 15 days following completion of pulsed administration.

In accordance with changes in the measured parameters the schedule of administration of pulses is actively modified in the following manner for any increase in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of pulses is decreased by 1 1440 per day and or the duration of each pulse is decreased by 1 10800 seconds. For any decrease in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of pulses is increased by 1 1440 per day and or the duration of each pulse would be increased by 1 10800 seconds.

In order to assess potential effects in other systems where sympathetic activity typically exerts influence arterial blood samples and pulmonary function tests are obtained on a weekly schedule where the following parameters may be assessed 

All dogs in the treatment group are observed to initially have either no changes or statistically negligible increases in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures while the compensatory response to administration begins to take hold. At some point during the experimental period these dogs are observed to begin to manifest reductions in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures. The frequency and duration of pulses is gradually increased so as to increase the magnitude of the reduction for the duration of the experimental period. These reductions are maintained upon cessation of the treatment for the duration of the recovery period. Dogs in the control group maintain the same values in these parameters throughout both the control period and the experimental period. No adverse effects of treatment are found in any of these subjects.

In double blinded randomized controlled studies performed in similar fashion to that described in Example 1 the effect of pulsed stimulation of sympathetic nerves on the blood pressure in normotensive dogs is determined. The control period in this case is 10 days and the experimental period 30 days. Again dogs in the treatment group receive pulsed stimulation of selected sympathetic nerves using implanted bipolar electrodes with pulse duration of from about 1 to about 10800 seconds at a frequency no less than about 1 to about 1440 per day. The schedule of pulse administration is adjusted during the course of the experimental period by the protocol as previously noted. Control subjects have similar devices implanted but do not receive any pulsed stimulation for the duration of the treatment period.

As with the hypertensive dogs the pulsed electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves in normotensive dogs results in significant reductions in mean arterial pressures maintained upon cessation of treatment. Dogs in the control group maintain the same mean arterial pressure throughout both the control period and the experimental period. Findings of reduction in normotensive dogs show that paradoxical pulsed therapy readily finds prophylactic use in preventing the onset of hypertension in individuals identified as predisposed to the condition.

Double blinded randomized controlled studies are performed in a set of patients with essential hypertension to demonstrate that intermittent electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves lowers blood pressure. In all patients hypertension is confirmed on at least three occasions in an outpatient setting after the patient has been sitting for at least 10 minutes. Blood pressure ranges recorded indicate elevation of both systolic and diastolic components of the blood pressure. No patients have clinical signs or symptoms of pheochromocytoma or renal artery stenosis and no patients have clinical or laboratory evidence of impaired cardiac renal pulmonary or hepatic function. Urinalysis and serum concentrations of creatinine sodium and potassium are confirmed to be within normal limits for patients.

All medications are stopped for each individual for at least four weeks before the beginning of the study. All patients remain hospitalized throughout the study where physical activity consists of only daily walks. Throughout the study each patient ingests a constant amount of a nutritionally adequate whole foods diet intrinsically low in sodium chloride approximately 10 mmoles NaCl 70 kg body weight day . A sodium chloride supplement is added in an amount sufficient to increase total sodium intake to 140 meq day 70 kg. The diet provides approximately 55 mmoles of potassium 375 mg of calcium and 820 mg of phosphorus per 70 kg day.

In each patient the total number of calories provided is determined from the estimated amount of energy required to keep body weight constant. The diet contains as a percentage of total calories 35 fat 56 carbohydrate and 9 protein. The specific ingredients of each meal are kept constant throughout the study. Fluid intake would be fixed at 3150 ml 70 kg day.

A 10 day steady state control period precedes the experimental period for all subjects. Throughout the experimental period all patients in the treatment group initially receive pulsed stimulation of selected sympathetic nerves using an implanted neurostimulation device with pulse duration of from about 1 to about 10800 seconds at a frequency no less than about 1 to about 1440 per day. Control subjects would have similar devices implanted but would not receive pulsed stimulation for the duration of the treatment period.

Blood pressure is measured in the nondominant arm at 8 am noon 4 pm 8 pm and 10 pm of each day with an automated oscillometric device Dinamap in order to avoid observer bias. At each measurement session after the patient has been supine for 10 minutes five measurements of systolic and diastolic pressure and heart rate are obtained and the average of the last four measurements are calculated. The measurements are repeated with the patient in the upright position at each session. The measurements are averaged to yield values for daily systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Mean arterial pressure is calculated as systolic pressure diastolic pressure 3 diastolic pressure. Measurements continue for a recovery period of 15 days following completion of pulsed administration.

In accordance with changes in the measured parameters the schedule of administration of pulses would be actively modified in the following manner for any increase in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of pulses is decreased by 1 1440 per day and or the duration of each pulse is decreased by 1 10800 seconds. For any decrease in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of pulses is increased by 1 1440 per day and or the duration of each pulse is increased by 1 10800 seconds.

In order to assess potential effects in other systems where sympathetic activity typically exerts influence the following parameters may be assessed with the accompanying range of values observed as indicated 

All patients in the treatment group initially have either no changes or statistically negligible increases in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures while the compensatory response to administration begins to take hold. At some point during the experimental period these patients begin to manifest reductions in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures. The frequency and duration of pulses is gradually increased so as to increase the magnitude of the reduction for the duration of the experimental period. These reductions are maintained upon cessation of the treatment for the duration of the recovery period. Patients in the control group maintain the same values in these parameters throughout both the control period and the experimental period. No adverse effects of treatment are found in any of these subjects.

In double blinded randomized controlled studies performed in similar fashion to that described in Example 1 the effect of intermittent stimulation of sympathetic nerves on the blood pressure in normotensive individuals is determined. The control period in this case is again 10 days and the experimental period 30 days. Again patients in the treatment group receive pulsed stimulation of selected sympathetic nerves using an implanted neurostimulation device with pulse duration 1 10800 seconds at a frequency no less than 1 1440 per day. The schedule of pulse administration is adjusted during the course of the experimental period by the protocol as previously noted. Control subjects have similar devices implanted but do not receive any pulsed stimulation for the duration of the treatment period. The subjects are fed a diet having an intrinsic low sodium chloride content less than 10 meq sodium and chloride day 70 kg body weight and a normal potassium content 52 meq day 70 kg body weight . A sodium chloride supplement is added sufficient to increase total sodium intake to 140 meq 70 kg day.

As with the hypertensive individuals pulsed electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves results in significant reductions in mean arterial pressures maintained upon cessation of treatment. Patients in the control group maintain the same mean arterial pressure throughout both the control period and the experimental period. Findings of reduction in normotensive individuals means that paradoxical pulsed therapy finds prophylactic use in preventing the onset of hypertension in individuals identified as predisposed to the condition.

Splanchnic nerves are ideal candidates for sympathetic nerve stimulation given their size and location. An electrical device for stimulation is adapted for application to relevant nerve bundles. The electrodes of this device consist of bipolar electrodes that generate action potentials by cathodic stimulation and produce a complete anodal block on one side of the cathode to make the electrode generated action potentials unidirectional. Each bipolar electrode contains an insulating base with cathode and anode on one face and control circuitry on the opposite face. This apparatus communicates with a master control unit either attached to the bipolar electrodes directly via an asynchronous serial bus or via wireless communication link. 1 5 Hz has been described as the frequency that best describes the conduction velocity latency and refractory period of sympathetic nerves and range of amplitude of current delivered can vary between 0.1 and 20 A.

Alternatively the vagus nerve offers a candidate for increasing relative sympathetic activity via inhibition of parasympathetic activity. An electrical device for stimulation is adapted for application to relevant nerve bundles. The electrodes for this device consist of tripolar electrodes that produce a complete block of vagal activity by generating action potentials via cathodic stimulation and imposing complete anodal blocks in either direction. Each tripolar electrode contains an insulating base with cathodes and anodes on one face and control circuitry on the opposite face. This apparatus communicates with a master control unity either attached to the tripolar electrodes directly via an asynchronous serial bus or via wireless communication link. 10 150 Hz has been described as the frequency that best describes the conduction velocity latency and refractory period of parasympathetic nerves and range of amplitude of current delivered can vary between 0.1 and 20 A.

An example of utilizing pulsed paradoxical therapy for the treatment of hypertension includes using a short acting sympathomimetic agent to produce short intervals of increased blood pressure ranging from seconds to hours to increase dynamic range. Alternatively or in addition one could deploy a short acting parasympathomimetics agent to induce to induce short intervals of decreased blood pressure ranging from seconds to hours to increase dynamic range. In addition one could use measured feedback to regulate the frequency and duration of pulsed therapies.

Double blinded randomized controlled studies are performed in a set of dogs with experimentally induced hypertension mechanism of induction to be determined to demonstrate that intermittent stimulation with sympathomimetic pharmacologic agents lowers blood pressure. Experiments are conducted on mongrel dogs of either sex weighing 14 17 kg. Dogs are prepared for study by being treated for ectoparasites and endoparasites in addition to being immunized for parvovirus canine distemper hepatitis parainfluenza and coronavirus. All experiments are conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Dogs are fed a low sodium diet supplemented with sodium chloride to achieve a sodium intake of 40 mmol d normal sodium intake . This dietary regimen provides a constant and known level of dietary sodium intake. Throughout the experimental protocol all dogs are allowed water ad libidum.

For implantation of catheters for controlled administration of the agents dogs are anesthetized with sodium thiamylal 30 mg kg IV for induction and then halothane 1 . Catheters are inserted via the femoral vessels into the aorta for direct arterial pressure measurement and drug administration. All catheter lines are tunneled subcutaneously to the midscapular region of the back and exteriorized. A 10 day steady state control period precedes the experimental period for all subjects to allow for recovery from surgical instrumentation.

Throughout the experimental period dogs in the treatment group initially receive pulsed stimulation via pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent at a frequency no less than 1 to about 1440 pulses per day. Dogs in the control group receive a placebo at the same frequency during the experimental period. Measurement of systolic diastolic and mean arterial blood pressures are obtained via pressure transducer on an ongoing basis. Measurements continue for a recovery period of 15 days following completion of pulsed administration.

In accordance with changes in the measured parameters the schedule of administration of pulses is actively modified in the following manner for any increase in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of the agent is decreased by 1 1440 per day and or the dosing of the agent is decreased by 1 99 . For any decrease in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration of the agent is increased by 1 1440 per day and or the dosing of the agent is increased by 1 99 .

In order to assess potential effects in other systems where sympathetic activity typically exerts influence arterial blood samples and pulmonary function tests are obtained on a weekly schedule where the following parameters may be assessed 

All dogs in the treatment group are observed to initially have either no changes or statistically negligible increases in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures while the compensatory response to administration began to take hold. At some point during the experimental period these dogs are observed to begin to manifest reductions in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures. The frequency and dosage of administration is gradually adjusted so as to increase the magnitude of the reduction for the duration of the experimental period. These reductions are maintained upon cessation of the treatment for the duration of the recovery period. Dogs in the control group maintain the same values in these parameters throughout both the control period and the experimental period. No adverse effects of treatment are found in any of these subjects.

In double blinded randomized controlled studies performed in similar fashion to that described in Example 1 the effect of pulsed stimulation via pulsatile administration of sympathomimetic agents on the blood pressure in normotensive dogs is determined. The control period in this case is 10 days and the experimental period 30 days. Again dogs in the treatment group receive pulsed stimulation via pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent at a frequency no less than about 1 to about 1440 per day. The schedule of pulse administration is adjusted during the course of the experimental period by the protocol as previously noted. Control subjects have comparable devices for administration but receive a placebo for the duration of the treatment period.

As with the hypertensive dogs the pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent in normotensive dogs results in significant reductions in mean arterial pressures maintained upon cessation of treatment. Dogs in the control group maintain the same mean arterial pressure throughout both the control period and the experimental period. Findings of reduction in normotensive dogs show that paradoxical pulsed therapy readily finds prophylactic use in preventing the onset of hypertension in individuals identified as predisposed to the condition.

Double blinded randomized controlled studies are performed in a set of patients with essential hypertension to demonstrate that intermittent electrical stimulation of sympathetic nerves lowers blood pressure. In all patients hypertension is confirmed on at least three occasions in an outpatient setting after the patient has been sitting for at least 10 minutes. Blood pressure ranges recorded indicate elevation of both systolic and diastolic components of the blood pressure. No patients have clinical signs or symptoms of pheochromocytoma or renal artery stenosis and no patients have clinical or laboratory evidence of impaired cardiac renal pulmonary or hepatic function. Urinalysis and serum concentrations of creatinine sodium and potassium are confirmed to be within normal limits for patients.

All medications are stopped for each individual for at least four weeks before the beginning of the study. All patients remain hospitalized throughout the study where physical activity consists of only daily walks. Throughout the study each patient ingests a constant amount of a nutritionally adequate whole foods diet intrinsically low in sodium chloride approximately 10 mmoles NaCl 70 kg body weight day . A sodium chloride supplement is added in an amount sufficient to increase total sodium intake to 140 meq day 70 kg. The diet provides approximately 55 mmoles of potassium 375 mg of calcium and 820 mg of phosphorus per 70 kg day.

In each patient the total number of calories provided is determined from the estimated amount of energy required to keep body weight constant. The diet contains as a percentage of total calories 35 fat 56 carbohydrate and 9 protein. The specific ingredients of each meal are kept constant throughout the study. Fluid intake would be fixed at 3150 ml 70 kg day.

A 10 day steady state control period precedes the experimental period for all subjects. Throughout the experimental period all patients in the treatment group initially receive pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent via an implanted intravenous catheter at a frequency no less than about 1 to about 1440 per day. Control subjects would have similar catheters implanted but would receive only placebo for the duration of the treatment period.

Blood pressure is measured in the nondominant arm at 8 am noon 4 pm 8 pm and 10 pm of each day with an automated oscillometric device Dinamap in order to avoid observer bias. At each measurement session after the patient has been supine for 10 minutes five measurements of systolic and diastolic pressure and heart rate are obtained and the average of the last four measurements are calculated. The measurements are repeated with the patient in the upright position at each session. The measurements are averaged to yield values for daily systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Mean arterial pressure is calculated as systolic pressure diastolic pressure 3 diastolic pressure. Measurements continue for a recovery period of 15 days following completion of pulsed administration.

In accordance with changes in the measured parameters the schedule of administration of pulses would be actively modified in the following manner for any increase in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration is decreased by 1 1440 per day and or the dosing of the agent is decreased by 1 99 . For any decrease in systolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of greater than 1 10 mm Hg the frequency of administration is increased by 1 1440 per day and or the dosing of the agent is increased by 1 99 .

In order to assess potential effects in other systems where sympathetic activity typically exerts influence the following parameters may be assessed with the accompanying range of values observed as indicated 

All patients in the treatment group initially have either no changes or statistically negligible increases in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures while the compensatory response to administration begins to take hold. At some point during the experimental period these patients begin to manifest reductions in systolic diastolic and mean arterial pressures. The frequency and dosage of administration is gradually adjusted so as to increase the magnitude of the reduction for the duration of the experimental period. These reductions are maintained upon cessation of the treatment for the duration of the recovery period. Patients in the control group maintain the same values in these parameters throughout both the control period and the experimental period. No adverse effects of treatment are found in any of these subjects.

In double blinded randomized controlled studies performed in similar fashion to that described in Example 1 the effect of intermittent stimulation of sympathetic nerves on the blood pressure in normotensive individuals is determined. The control period in this case is again 10 days and the experimental period 30 days. Again patients in the treatment group receive pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent via implanted intravenous catheter at a frequency no less than 1 1440 per day. The schedule of pulse administration is adjusted during the course of the experimental period by the protocol as previously noted. Control subjects have similar catheters implanted but receive only placebo for the duration of the treatment period. The subjects are fed a diet having an intrinsic low sodium chloride content less than 10 meq sodium and chloride day 70 kg body weight and a normal potassium content 52 meq day 70 kg body weight . A sodium chloride supplement is added sufficient to increase total sodium intake to 140 meq 70 kg day.

As with the hypertensive individuals pulsatile administration of a sympathomimetic agent results in significant reductions in mean arterial pressures maintained upon cessation of treatment. Patients in the control group maintain the same mean arterial pressure throughout both the control period and the experimental period. Findings of reduction in normotensive individuals means that paradoxical pulsed therapy finds prophylactic use in preventing the onset of hypertension in individuals identified as predisposed to the condition

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it is readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

Accordingly the preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents and equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure. The scope of the present invention therefore is not intended to be limited to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather the scope and spirit of present invention is embodied by the appended claims.

