---

title: N,N′-diarylurea compounds and N,N′-diarylthiourea compounds as inhibitors of translation initiation
abstract: Compositions and methods for inhibiting translation initiation are provided. Compositions, methods and kits for treating (1) cellular proliferative disorders, (2) non-proliferative, degenerative disorders, (3) viral infections, and/or (4) disorders associated with viral infections, using N,N′-diarylureas and/or N,N′-diarylthiourea compounds are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09421211&OS=09421211&RS=09421211
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 09421211
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
This application is a National Stage Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of co pending PCT application PCT US2010 036584 designating the United States and filed May 28 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 181 920 filed May 28 2009 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under 5 U19 CA87427 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to novel compounds which inhibit translation initiation pharmaceutical compositions of the novel compounds and methods of treating medical disorders.

Translation the mRNA directed synthesis of proteins occurs in three distinct steps initiation elongation and termination. Translation initiation is a complex process in which the two ribosomal subunits and methionyl tRNA Met tRNA assemble on a properly aligned mRNA to commence chain elongation at the AUG initiation codon. The established scanning mechanism for initiation involves the formation of a ternary complex among eukaryotic initiation factor 2 eIF2 GTP and Met tRNA. The ternary complex recruits the 40S ribosomal subunit to form the 43S pre initiation complex. This complex recruits mRNA in cooperation with other initiation factors such as eukaryotic initiation factor 4E eIF4E which recognizes the 7 methyl guanidine cap m GTP cap in an mRNA molecule and forms the 48S pre initiation complex. Cap recognition facilitates the 43S complex entry at the 5 end of a capped mRNA. Subsequently this complex migrates linearly until it reaches the first AUG codon where a 60S ribosomal subunit joins the complex and the first peptide bond is formed Pain 1996 236 747 771 . After each initiation the GTP in the ternary complex is converted to GDP. The eIF2.GDP binary complex must be converted to eIF2.GTP by the guanidine exchange factor eIF2B for a new round of translation initiation to occur. Inhibition of this exchange reaction by phosphorylation of eIF2 reduces the abundance of the ternary complex and inhibits translation initiation. Forced expression of non phosphorylatable eIF2 or Met tRNAcauses transformation of normal cells Marshall 2008 133 78 Berns 2008 133 29 . In contrast pharmacologic agents that restrict the amount of eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAternary complex inhibit proliferation of cancer cells in vitro and tumors in vivo Aktas 1998 95 8280 Palakurthi 2000 60 2919 Palakurthi 2001 61 6213 . These findings indicate that more potent and specific agents that reduce amount of ternary complex are potent anti cancer agents.

Several features of the mRNA structure influence the efficiency of its translation. These include the m GTP cap the primary sequence surrounding the AUG codon and the length and secondary structure of the 5 untranslated region 5 UTR . Indeed a moderately long unstructured 5 UTR with a low G and C base content seems to be optimal to ensure high translational efficiency. Surprisingly sequence analysis of a large number of vertebrate cDNAs has shown that although most transcripts have features that ensure translational fidelity many do not appear to be designed for efficient translation Kozak 1991 115 887 903 . Many vertebrate mRNAs contain 5 UTRs that are hundreds of nucleotides long with a remarkably high GC content indicating that they are highly structured because G and C bases tend to form highly stable bonds. Because highly structured and stable 5 UTRs are the major barrier to translation mRNAs with stable secondary structure in their 5 UTR are translated inefficiently and their translation is highly dependent on the activity of translation initiation factors.

mRNAs with complex highly structured 5 UTRs include a disproportionately high number of proto oncogenes such as the G1 cyclins transcription and growth factors cytokines and other critical regulatory proteins. In contrast mRNAs that encode globins albumins histones and other housekeeping proteins rarely have highly structured GC rich 5 UTRs Kozak 1994 76 815 21 Kozak 1999 234 187 208 . The fact that genes encoding for regulatory but not for housekeeping proteins frequently produce transcripts with highly structured 5 UTRs indicates that extensive control of the expression of regulatory genes occurs at the level of translation. In other words low efficiency of translation is a control mechanism which modulates the yield of proteins such as cyclins mos c myc VEGF TNF among others that could be harmful if overproduced.

Translation initiation is a critical step in the regulation of cell growth because the expression of most oncogenes and cell growth regulatory proteins is translationally regulated. One approach to inhibiting translation initiation has recently been identified using small molecule known as translation initiation inhibitors. Translation initiation inhibitors such as clotrimazole CLT inhibit translation initiation by sustained depletion of intracellular Castores. Depletion of intracellular Castores activates interferon inducible double stranded RNA activated protein kinase PKR which phosphorylates and thereby inhibits the subunit of eIF2. Since the activity of eIF2 is required for translation initiation its inhibition by compounds such as CLT reduces the overall rate of protein synthesis. Because most cell regulatory proteins are encoded for by mRNAs containing highly structured 5 UTRs they are poorly translated and their translation depends heavily on translation initiation factors such as eIF2 and eIF4. Therefore inhibition of translation initiation preferentially affects the synthesis and expression of growth regulatory proteins such as G1 cyclins. Sequential synthesis and expression of G1 cyclins D1 E and A is necessary to drive the cell cycle beyond the restriction point in late G1. Thus the decreased synthesis and expression of G1 cyclins resulting from CLT induced inhibition of translation initiation causes cell cycle arrest in G1 and inhibits cancer cell and tumor growth Aktas et al. 1998 95 8280 8285 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes .

Like CLT the n 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid EPA depletes internal calcium stores and exhibits anti carcinogenic activity. Unlike CLT however EPA is a ligand of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR a fatty acid activated transcription factor. Although EPA and other ligands of PPAR such as troglitazone and ciglitazone inhibit cell proliferation they do so in a PPAR independent manner Palakurthi et al. 2000 60 2919 and Palakurthi et al. 2001 61 6213 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes .

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to compounds that inhibit translation initiation and the use of such compounds or combination of compounds for treating 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections 4 disorders associated with viral infections and or 5 disorders characterized by unwanted protein synthesis or diseases for which reducing protein synthesis is advantageous.

In at least certain examples the compounds are of substituted diarylureas more particularly substituted N N diarylurea compounds. In other examples the compounds are substituted thioureas more particularly substituted N N diarylthiourea compounds. In certain exemplary embodiments substituted N N diarylurea and or substituted N N diarylthiourea compounds include compounds comprising Formula I Formula II Formula III Formula IV and or compounds set forth in Tables 1 6 and the Appendix.

In certain examples the substituted N N diarylurea and or substituted N N diarylthiourea compounds described herein cause phosphorylation of eIF2 . In other examples substituted N N diarylurea and or substituted N N diarylthiourea compounds are effective to inhibit translation initiation.

In accordance with a method aspect a method of treating a proliferative disorder by providing and or administering a compound of Formula I and or Formula II and or Formula III and or Formula IV to a mammal e.g. a human or a non human e.g. a non human primate is provided. In one example the proliferative disorder is cancer. In accordance with other examples a method of treating a viral infection by providing and or administering a compound of Formula I and or Formula II and or Formula III and or Formula IV to a mammal e.g. a human or a non human mammal is provided.

In accordance with an additional aspect kits are provided for the treatment of 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections 4 disorders associated with viral infections and or 5 disorders characterized by unwanted protein synthesis or diseases for which reducing protein synthesis is advantageous In one aspect the kits comprise a compound of Formula I and or Formula II and or Formula III and or Formula IV a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally instructions for use. The pharmaceutical composition can be administered to a human subject or a non human subject depending on the disorder to be treated.

It will be recognized by the person of ordinary skill in the art that the compounds compositions methods and kits disclosed herein provide significant advantages over prior technology. Compounds compositions methods and kits can be designed or selected to relieve and or alleviate symptoms in a patient suffering from one or more disorders. These and other aspects and examples are described below.

It will be recognized that the results and examples in the figures are only illustrative and other examples and illustrations will be readily recognized by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with certain examples compounds of Formula I and or Formula II and or Formula III and or Formula IV inhibit translation e.g. translation initiation . Such compounds are useful for the treatment of 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections.

Certain examples are described below with reference to various chemical formulae. The chemical formulae referred to herein can exhibit the phenomena of tautomerism conformational isomerism stereo isomerism or geometric isomerism. As the formulae drawings within this specification can represent only one of the possible tautomeric conformational isomeric enantiomeric or geometric isomeric forms it should be understood that the invention encompasses any tautomeric conformational isomeric enantiomeric or geometric isomeric forms which exhibit biological or pharmacological activity as described herein.

The compounds and compositions provided below are effective to inhibit translation e.g. translation initiation at least to the extent necessary for effective treatment of one or more disorders described herein. While in certain examples translation may be substantially inhibited such that little or no activity results in other examples the inhibition is at least sufficient to relieve and or alleviate the symptoms from a selected disorder to be treated.

In accordance with certain embodiments compounds of the invention are represented by the generic formula set forth below.

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkyl sulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris H Cl CH OCH NO OH F CF OCF Br CHS AcHN CH N CO NH NH SONH C CH COOCHCH COCH O CH CH CHO COH OCONH CN C CH N methylacetamido 1 1 2 3 triazolyl 4 1 2 3 triazolyl 5 1 2 3 4 tetrazolyl guanidine C alkyl C alkyl amino substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl C alkoxy C alkenyloxy C alkoxycarbonyl C alkylcarbonyl C alkylcarbonyloxy N N dimethylamino N N di C alkyl amino mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonyl C alkylcarbonylamino C alkylsulfonylamino C alkylthio C alkylsulphinyl aryl aryloxy arylcarbonyl arylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl heterocyclyloxy heterocyclylamino heterocyclylcarbonyl heteroaryl heteroaryloxy heteroarylamino heteroarylcarbonyl heteroarylsulfonylamino O CH morpholino O CH piperazin 1 yl O CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl O CH mono and di C alkyl amino O CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl O CH 4 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl 

Ris CH C CH C alkyl C alkyl substituted with hydroxyl C alkoxy amino mono and di C alkyl amino carboxy C alkylcarbonylamino alkylaminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl mono and di C alkyl aminosulfonyl carbamido mono and di C alkyl aminocarbonylamino halogen s aryl arylheterocycle heterocycle and heteroaryl. C alkenyl CH morpholino CH piperazin 1 yl CH 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl CH mono and di C alkyl amino CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl CH 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl CH 4 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl or CH 1 C alkyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 4 yl .

According to one particular embodiment of Formula I II or III Rand Rare absent and a covalent linkage is present between the nitrogenes that is

In certain exemplary embodiments compounds within the scope of Formula I II or III are those where optionally at least one atom is covalently linked between two R groups. In certain exemplary embodiments a covalent linkage is present between Rand Rthat is

In accordance with certain embodiments compounds of the invention are represented by the generic formula set forth below.

Specific compounds within the scope of the present invention include the following those set forth in Table 1 below.

In at least certain examples the compounds disclosed here can be used in the treatment of cellular proliferative disorders such as cancer and non cancerous cellular proliferative disorders. Treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include but is not limited to inhibition of proliferation including rapid proliferation. As used herein the term cellular proliferative disorder includes but is not limited to disorders characterized by undesirable or inappropriate proliferation of one or more subset s of cells in a multicellular organism. The term cancer refers to various types of malignant neoplasms most of which can invade surrounding tissues and may metastasize to different sites see for example PDR Medical Dictionary 1st edition 1995 . The terms neoplasm and tumor refer to an abnormal tissue that grows by cellular proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated proliferation is removed. Id. Such abnormal tissue shows partial or complete lack of structural organization and functional coordination with the normal tissue which may be either benign i.e. benign tumor or malignant i.e. malignant tumor .

Examples of general categories of cancer include but are not limited to carcinomas i.e. malignant tumors derived from epithelial cells such as for example common forms of breast prostate lung and colon cancer sarcomas i.e. malignant tumors derived from connective tissue or mesenchymal cells lymphomas i.e. malignancies derived from hematopoietic cells leukemias i.e. malignancies derived from hematopoietic cells germ cell tumors i.e. tumors derived from totipotent cells. In adults most often found in the testicle or ovary in fetuses babies and young children most often found on the body midline particularly at the tip of the tailbone blastic tumors i.e. a typically malignant tumor which resembles an immature or embryonic tissue and the like. One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional cancers based on the disclosure herein.

Examples of specific neoplasms intended to be encompassed by the present invention include but are not limited to acute lymphoblastic leukemia myeloid leukemia acute myeloid leukemia childhood adrenocortical carcinoma AIDS related cancers AIDS related lymphoma anal cancer appendix cancer astrocytoma e.g. cerebellar cerebral atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor basal cell carcinoma bile duct cancer extrahepatic bladder cancer bone cancer osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma brain tumor e.g. brain stem glioma central nervous system atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumors central nervous system embryonal tumors cerebellar astrocytoma cerebral astrocytoma malignant glioma craniopharyngioma ependymoblastoma ependymoma medulloblastoma medulloepithelioma pineal parenchymal tumors of intermediate differentiation supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors and or pineoblastoma visual pathway and or hypothalamic glioma brain and spinal cord tumors breast cancer bronchial tumors Burkitt lymphoma carcinoid tumor e.g. gastrointestinal carcinoma of unknown primary central nervous system e.g. atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor embryonal tumors e.g. lymphoma primary cerebellar astrocytoma cerebral astrocytoma malignant glioma cervical cancer chordoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia chronic myeloproliferative disorders colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cutaneous T cell lymphoma embryonal tumors central nervous system endometrial cancer ependymoblastoma ependymoma esophageal cancer Ewing family of tumors extracranial germ cell tumor extragonadal germ cell tumor extrahepatic bile duct cancer eye cancer e.g. intraocular melanoma retinoblastoma gallbladder cancer gastric cancer gastrointestinal tumor e.g. carcinoid tumor stromal tumor gist stromal cell tumor germ cell tumor e.g. extracranial extragonadal ovarian gestational trophoblastic tumor glioma e.g. brain stem cerebral astrocytoma hairy cell leukemia head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer Hodgkin lymphoma hypopharyngeal cancer hypothalamic and visual pathway glioma intraocular melanoma islet cell tumors Kaposi sarcoma kidney cancer large cell tumors laryngeal cancer e.g. acute lymphoblastic acute myeloid leukemia e.g. acute myeloid chronic lymphocytic chronic myelogenous hairy cell lip and or oral cavity cancer liver cancer lung cancer e.g. non small cell small cell lymphoma e.g. AIDS related Burkitt cutaneous Tcell Hodgkin non Hodgkin primary central nervous system macroglobulinemia Waldenstrom malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone and or osteosarcoma medulloblastoma medulloepithelioma melanoma merkel cell carcinoma mesothelioma metastatic squamous neck cancer mouth cancer multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome multiple myeloma plasma cell neoplasm mycosis fungoides myelodysplastic syndromes myelodysplastic myeloproliferative diseases myelogenous leukemia e.g. chronic acute multiple myeloproliferative disorders chronic nasal cavity and or paranasal sinus cancer nasopharyngeal cancer neuroblastoma non Hodgkin lymphoma non small cell lung cancer oral cancer oral cavity cancer oropharyngeal cancer osteosarcoma and or malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone ovarian cancer e.g. ovarian epithelial cancer ovarian germ cell tumor ovarian low malignant potential tumor pancreatic cancer e.g. islet cell tumors papillomatosis paranasal sinus and or nasal cavity cancer parathyroid cancer penile cancer pharyngeal cancer pheochromocytoma pineal parenchymal tumors of intermediate differentiation pineoblastoma and supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors pituitary tumor plasma cell neoplasm multiple myeloma pleuropulmonary blastoma primary central nervous system lymphoma prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell cancer renal pelvis and or ureter transitional cell cancer respiratory tract carcinoma involving the nut gene on chromosome 15 retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma salivary gland cancer sarcoma e.g. Ewing family of tumors Kaposi soft tissue uterine 

S zary syndrome skin cancer e.g. non melanoma melanoma merkel cell small cell lung cancer small intestine cancer soft tissue sarcoma squamous cell carcinoma squamous neck cancer with occult primary metastatic stomach cancer supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors T cell lymphoma cutaneous testicular cancer throat cancer thymoma and or thymic carcinoma thyroid cancer transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and or ureter trophoblastic tumor unknown primary site carcinoma urethral cancer uterine cancer endometrial uterine sarcoma vaginal cancer visual pathway and or hypothalamic glioma vulvar cancer Waldenstr m macroglobulinemia Wilms tumor and the like. For a review see the National Cancer Institute s Worldwide Website cancer.gov cancertopics alphalist . One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional cancers and or neoplasms based on the disclosure herein.

Examples of noncancerous cellular proliferative disorders includes fibroadenoma adenoma intraductal papilloma nipple adenoma adenosis fibrocystic disease or changes of breast plasma cell proliferative disorder PCPD restenosis atherosclerosis rheumatoid arthritis myofibromatosis fibrous hamartoma granular lymphocyte proliferative disorders benign hyperplasia of prostate heavy chain diseases HCDs lymphoproliferative disorders psoriasis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis scleroderma cirrhosis of the liver IgA nephropathy mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis hemangiomas vascular and non vascular intraocular proliferative disorders and the like. One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional noncancerous cellular proliferative disorders based on the disclosure herein.

The language treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include but is not limited to the prevention of the growth of neoplasms in a subject or a reduction in the growth of pre existing neoplasms in a subject as well as the prevention or reduction of increased or uncontrollable cell growth. The inhibition also can be the inhibition of the metastasis of a neoplasm from one site to another. In certain embodiments the neoplasms are sensitive to one or more compounds of Formulae I and II as described herein.

In accordance with certain other examples methods for treating viral infections are also disclosed. Treatment of viral infections is intended to include but is not limited to the use of a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compounds described herein to prevent the initiation of viral protein synthesis. The term viral infection as used herein refers to one or more cells which have been infected with a virus such as a DNA or RNA animal virus. As used herein RNA viruses include but are not limited to virus families such as picornaviridae e.g. polioviruses reoviridae e.g. rotaviruses togaviridae e.g. encephalitis viruses yellow fever virus rubella virus orthomyxoviridae e.g. influenza viruses paramyxoviridae e.g. respiratory syncytial virus measles virus mumps virus parainfluenza virus rhabdoviridae e.g. rabies virus coronaviridae bunyaviridae flaviviridae filoviridae arenaviridae bunyaviridae and retroviridae e.g. human T cell lymphotropic viruses HTLV human immunodeficiency viruses HIV . As used herein DNA viruses include but are not limited to virus families such as papovaviridae e.g. papilloma viruses adenoviridae e.g. adenovirus herpesviridae e.g. herpes simplex viruses and poxyiridae e.g. variola viruses . In certain embodiments the viral infection is caused by hepatitis B virus hepatitis C virus and or HIV. One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional viral infections based on the disclosure herein.

In accordance with other examples methods for treating disorders associated with viral infections are disclosed. Treatment of one or more disorders associated with viral infections is intended to include but is not limited to the use of a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compound described herein to reduce or alleviate one or more symptoms of a viral infection. As used herein the term disorders associated with viral infection refers to the host s response to infection by one or more viruses. Such responses include but are not limited to neurological symptoms e.g. encephalitis meningoencephalitis paralysis myelopathy neuropathy aseptic meningitis hemiparesis dementia dysphagia lack of muscular coordination impaired vision coma and the like wasting symptoms e.g. inflammatory cell infiltration perivascular cuffing of blood vessels demyelination necrosis reactive gliosis and the like gastroenteritis symptoms e.g. diarrhea vomiting cramps and the like hepatitis symptoms nausea vomiting right upper quadrant pain raised liver enzyme levels e.g. AST ALT and the like jaundice and the like hemorrhagic fever symptoms e.g. headache fever chills body pains diarrhea vomiting dizziness confusion abnormal behavior pharyngitis conjunctivitis red face red neck hemorrhage organ failure and the like oncogenic symptoms e.g. sarcomas leukemias and the like as well as rare malignancies e.g. Kaposi s sarcoma oral hairy leukoplasia lymphomas and the like immunodeficiency symptoms e.g. opportunistic infections wasting rare malignancies neurological disease fever diarrhea skin rashes and the like lesions e.g. warts e.g. common wart flat wart deep hyperkaratotic palmoplantar wart superficial mosaic type palmoplantar wart and the like epidermodysplasia mucosal lesions ulcers and the like and systemic symptoms e.g. fever chills headache muscle pain bone pain joint pain pharyngitis tonsillitis sinusitis otitis bronchitis pneumonia bronchopneumonia nausea vomiting increased salivation rash macules lymphadenopathy arthritis ulcers photosensitivity weight loss irritability restlessness anxiety coma death and the like . Disorders associated with viral infections are described in 4Ed. 2001 Lippincott Williams Wilkins and the introduction to medical virology website web.uct.ac.za depts. mmi jmoodie introvi2.html . One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional disorders associate with viral infections based on the disclosure herein.

In accordance with other examples methods for treating disorders characterized by unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation of one or more mutant and or wild type proteins are provided. Treatment of one or more disorders associated with unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation is intended to include but is not limited to the use of a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compound described herein to reduce or alleviate one or more symptoms characterized by unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation. Without intending to be bound by scientific theory contacting a subject afflicted with a disorder characterized by unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation of one or more mutant and or wild type proteins with a compound described herein e.g. a compound that can inhibit translation initiation can reduce the load on the protein folding machinery and accordingly may reduce the severity of the disorder. Disorders associated with unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation of one or more mutant and or wild type proteins include but are not limited to Tay Sachs disease cystic fibrosis phenylketonuria Fabry disease Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease congophilic angiopathy prion related disorders i.e. transmissible spongiform encephalopathies such as Creutzfeldt Jacob disease kuru fatal familial insomnia scrapie bovine spongiform encephalopathy and the like and the like. One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional disorders characterized by unwanted synthesis and or abnormal accumulation of one or more mutant and or wild type proteins based on the disclosure herein.

In accordance with other examples methods for treating non proliferative degenerative disorders associated with aberrant translation initiation using a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compound described herein to alleviate and or reduce one or more symptoms associated with a non proliferative degenerative disorder are disclosed. Treatment of non proliferative degenerative diseases is intended to include but is not limited to the use of N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compounds described herein. As used herein the term non proliferative degenerative disorder is intended to include but is not limited to diseases characterized by a loss of function of cells tissues and or organs due to aberrant translation initiation. Non proliferative degenerative disorders include but are not limited to disorders such as Alzheimer s disease and insulin resistance. One of skill in the art will understand that this list is exemplary only and is not exhaustive as one of skill in the art will readily be able to identify additional non proliferative degenerative disorders based on the disclosure herein.

In accordance with certain other examples kits for treating one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections are provided. In one example the kit may comprise one or more compounds of Formulae I and II as described herein. In another ex ample the kit may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In an additional example the kit may also include instructions for treating 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections 4 disorders associated with viral infections and or 5 disorders characterized by unwanted protein synthesis or diseases for which reducing protein synthesis is advantageous. In some examples the kit may also comprise e.g. a buffering agent a preservative or a protein stabilizing agent. In other examples the kit may also contain a control sample or a series of control samples which can be assayed and compared to the test sample contained. Other suitable components for including in the kit will be selected by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with certain examples compounds of the present invention can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration. Such compositions typically comprise the compounds disclosed here and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

In accordance with certain examples a pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Such pharmaceutical compositions may be administered by inhalation transdermally orally rectally transmucosally intestinally parenterally intramuscularly subcutaneously intravenously or other suitable methods that will be readily selected by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure. For example solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

In accordance with other examples pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water CREMPHOR EL BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as mannitol sorbitol sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In accordance with other examples sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions methods of preparation can be vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof. Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the active compound can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid Primogel or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring.

In at least certain examples the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals Inc. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These may be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

In accordance with certain examples pharmaceutical compositions of the invention comprise one or more N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compounds covalently linked to a peptide i.e. a polypeptide comprising two or more amino acids . Peptides may be assembled sequentially from individual amino acids or by linking suitable small peptide fragments. In sequential assembly the peptide chain is extended stepwise starting at the C terminus by one amino acid per step. In fragment coupling fragments of different lengths can be linked together and the fragments can also be obtained by sequential assembly from amino acids or by fragment coupling of still shorter peptides.

In both sequential assembly and fragment coupling it is necessary to link the units e.g. amino acids peptides compounds and the like by forming an amide linkage which can be accomplished via a variety of enzymatic and chemical methods. The methods described herein for formation of peptidic amide linkages are also suitable for the formation of non peptidic amide linkages.

Chemical methods for forming the amide linkage are described in detail in standard references on peptide chemistry including Muller Vol. XV 2 1 364 Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 Stewart and Young 31 34 and 71 82 Pierce Chemical Company Rockford Ill. 1984 Bodanszky et al. 85 128 John Wiley Sons New York 1976 M. Bodansky A. Bodansky Springer Verlag 1994 and other standard works in peptide chemistry. Methods include the azide method the symmetric and mixed anhydride method the use of in situ generated or preformed active esters the use of urethane protected N carboxy anhydrides of amino acids and the formation of the amide linkage using coupling reagents such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC 1 ethoxycarbonyl 2 ethoxy 1 2 dihydroquinoline EEDQ pivaloyl chloride 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDCI n propane phosphonic anhydride PPA N N bis 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl amido phosphoryl chloride BOP Cl bromo tris pyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBrop diphenylphosphoryl azide DPPA Castro s reagent BOP PyBop O benzotriazolyl N N N N tetramethyluronium salts HBTU O azabenzotriazolyl N N N N tetramethyluronium salts TATU diethylphosphoryl cyanide DEPCN 2 5 diphenyl 2 3 dihydro 3 oxo 4 hydroxythiophene dioxide Steglich s reagent HOTDO 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole CDI and the like. The coupling reagents can be employed alone or in combination with additives such as N N dimethyl 4 aminopyridine DMAP N hydroxy benzotriazole HOBt N hydroxybenzotriazine HOOBt N hydroxysuccinimide HOSu 2 hydroxypyridine and the like.

In accordance with other examples methods of modulating translation initiation for therapeutic purposes are disclosed. In one example a method involves contacting a cell with an agent that inhibits translation initiation. An agent that inhibits translation initiation can be any one of the compounds described herein such as a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compound. In at least certain examples the compound modulates the depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Methods of modulating translation initiation can be performed in vitro e.g. by culturing a cell with the agent or alternatively in vivo e.g. by administering the agent to a subject . Certain examples disclosed herein are directed to methods of treating an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder characterized by aberrant translation initiation. Examples of such disorders are described herein. In one embodiment the method involves administering an agent e.g. an agent identified by a screening assay described herein or combination of agents that inhibits translation initiation. As used herein an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder is intended to include both human and non human mammals. Examples of non human mammals include but are not limited to non human primates horses cows goats sheep dogs cats mice rats hamsters guinea pigs and the like.

The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of treating a subject for one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection. In one aspect the invention provides a method for preventing in a subject a disease or condition associated with one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection by administering to the subject one or more N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compounds described herein to modulate one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection. Administration of a prophylactic agent can occur prior to the manifestation of symptoms such that a disease or disorder is prevented or alternatively delayed in its progression.

Another aspect of the invention pertains to therapeutic methods of treating one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection for therapeutic purposes. Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment a therapeutic method of the invention involves contacting a subject with a N N diarylurea and or N N diarylthiourea compound that therapeutically treats one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections 4 disorders associated with viral infection and or 5 disorders characterized by unwanted protein synthesis or diseases for which reducing protein synthesis is advantageous.

One embodiment of the present invention involves a method of treating a translation initiation associated disease or disorder which includes the step of administering a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of an agent which inhibits translation initiation to a subject. In another embodiment a subject is administered a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount that is effective to deplete intracellular calcium stores. As defined herein a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of agent i.e. an effective dosage ranges from about 0.001 to 30 mg kg body weight from about 0.01 to 25 mg kg body weight from about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight from about 1 to 10 mg kg from about 2 to 9 mg kg from about 3 to 8 mg kg from about 4 to 7 mg kg or from about 5 to 6 mg kg body weight. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Treatment of a subject with a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of an inhibitor can include a single treatment or can include a series of treatments. It will also be appreciated that the effective dosage of in used for treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment.

It is to be understood that the embodiments of the present invention which have been described are merely illustrative of some of the applications of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made by those skilled in the art based upon the teachings presented herein without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The following examples are set forth as being representative of the present invention. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention as these and other equivalent embodiments will be apparent in view of the present disclosure figures and accompanying claims.

For assay development a bi directional plasmid was designed in which a common promoter enhancer complex drives the transcription of firefly luciferase F luc ORF fused to the 5 untranslated region UTR of ATF 4 and of the renilla luciferase R luc ORF fused to a 90 nucleotide 5 UTR derived from the plasmid . Because the tetracycline regulated transactivator tTA required for driving transcription from this vector is not normally expressed in the mammalian cells stable KLN cancer cells were constructed that expressed tTA KLN tTA .

The KLN tTA colonies that drove expression of reporter genes from pBISA DL plasmid were selected by transient transfection and dual luciferase assay. One of these KLN tTA cell lines was transfected with the pBISA DLexpression vector stable colonies were selected by dual luciferase assay and expanded. To determine if reduced availability of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAi ternary complex increased the translation of firefly luciferase and decreased translation of renilla luciferase selected KLN tTA pBISA DLcolonies were treated with thapsigargin TG or tunicamycin TU two agents known to cause phosphorylation of eIF2 . shows that treatment with these agents increased the expression of firefly luciferase and decreased expression of renilla luciferase leading to an increase in the ratio of firefly activity relative to renilla activity. This effect was due to presence of multiple uORFs but not other elements in the 5 UTR of ATF 4 for example an internal ribosomal entry site IRES element because removal of uORF2 by insertion of a single nucleotide abolished increased firefly renilla ratio in TG or TU treated cells . Furthermore the firefly renilla ratio was increased only in response to decreased abundance of the ternary complex but not inhibition of cell growth because several anti proliferative agents such as etoposite or mitomycin had no effect on Firefly luciferase Renilla luciferase ratio indicating that this assay is suitable for identification of agents that reduce abundance of the ternary complex Table 6 .

This assay was then adapted for high throughput screening in 96 and 384 well plates. This was done by evaluating the cell density length of exposure to compounds DMSO tolerance and optimum firefly and renilla substrate. We then challenged these cells with thapsigargin or DMSO. The scattered plot of these data is shown in . Using these data the suitability of the assay for high throughput screening in 384 well was determined by determining signal to background ratio and the Z factor. Cell based assays usually have higher variation than homogeneous in vitro assays due to position effect in the plate and other variables associated with handling of cells and the plates. Overall this assay had a very high signal to background ratio approximately 100 for both luciferases and a Z score of 0.58 an excellent value for a cell based assay.

Screening was conducted in 384 well white opaque plates Nalge Nunc 100 l volume RPMI 10 fetal bovine serum. Cells were plated at the sub confluent density of 10 000 cells well and allowed to attach for a period of 16 18 hours at 37 C. 5 CO. Compounds were added as 1 l of a 1 mM DMSO stock solution for a final screening concentration of 10 using low volume tips for transfer Molecular Bioproducts . Cells were then incubated in the presence of compound for an additional sixteen hours again at 37 C. 5 CO. Following incubation 70 l of the culture medium was removed from each well to allow for reagent addition and plates were allowed to equilibrate to room temperature for thirty minutes. Firefly luciferase reporter activity was then read by the addition of thirty microliters of Dual Glo Luciferase reagent Promega followed by one hour incubation at room temperature to allow for adequate signal buildup. Luminescence counting was conducted on a Microbeta Trilux using a 1 second read time. Renilla luciferase reporter activity was measured following addition of 30 l Stop and Glo Luciferase reagent Promega and incubation identical to the one carried out for the firefly luciferase one.

Compound scores were interpreted as firefly luciferase activity divided by renilla luciferase activity normalized to the plate s DMSO control. Using a preliminary screen of the NCI Diversity set as a guide 1990 compounds a hit threshold of three times the DMSO control readout was chosen to achieve a target hit rate of 1 wells with this threshold value typically fell three standard deviations from the plate mean. All data analysis was conducted using the BioAssay HTS software package CambridgeSoft .

With this format signal to noise and signal to background typically ran at 100 and 10 respectively with thapsigargin TG an agent known to induce eIF2 phosphorylation at 100 nM.

102 709 compounds in the NCI Open Chemical Repository were then screened using this HTS assay. Of these approximately 1200 compounds were identified as hits in the primary screen 1.2 hit rate . Initial hits were confirmed by repeating the same dual luciferase assay in 96 well plates. Briefly 20 000 cells well were plated in triplicate for each concentration 10 5 and 2.5 M of the compounds. The compounds that increased firefly renilla luciferase ratio at least three fold above the same ratio in the DMSO treated wells were considered confirmed hits. The final number of confirmed hits was 648 See Table 5 .

A review of the confirmed hits identified N N diarylureas as a privileged scaffold that can provide attractive leads. Using commercially available sources we assembled a 120 member lead finding library of N N diarylureas with various substitutions. Among these compounds three aryl substituted active and one inactive N N diarylureas were selected for further evaluation . shows dose dependent effects of selected compounds on firefly renilla luciferase ratio in KLN tTA pBISA DLcells.

In order to validate the N N diarylurea compounds bona fide modifiers of the abundance of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAternary complex we determined effects selected active and inactive N N diarylureas on endogenous cellular markers of the ternary complex. For example reducing amount of the ternary complex increases translation of ATF 4 which results in elevated expression of CHOP mRNA and protein. Therefore expression of endogenous CHOP mRNA and CHOP protein in KLN tTA pBISA DLcells were utilized as secondary assays to validate N N diarylurea compounds as modifiers of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAternary complex. As shown in and D active N N diarylureas did indeed induce expression of CHOP mRNA and protein. These findings demonstrate that the ternary complex assay reported herein is a very valuable tool for screening the chemical repositories for the inhibitors of translation initiation that reduce the amount of the ternary complex. To rule out the possibility that the activity of N N diarylurea compounds was confined to a single cell type the effects of these compounds on the ternary complex assay and the expression of CHOP mRNA was assayed in CRL 2351 PC 3 CRL 2813 human breast prostate and melanoma cancer cell lines respectively. For the reporter gene assay the three human cell lines were co transfected with tTA expression vector and the pBISA DLdual luciferase expression vector shown in . As shown in the active N N diarylureas displayed significant activity in all the cell lines tested albeit with different potencies. The expression of CHOP mRNA was assayed by real time PCR in the same cell lines treated with 5 or 20 M of each compound. As shown in the effect of all four compounds on CHOP mRNA expression closely followed their effect in the firefly renilla ratio.

The Effect of Certain Compounds on Ternary Complex Activity has been Studied and the Results Presented Below.

The amount of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAcomplex can be reduced by phosphorylation of eIF2 reduced expression of Met tRNAi or eIF2 phosphorylation independent reduction in the activity of eIF2B the eIF2 guanine nucleotide exchange factor. To determine which of these was the case the effect of active N N diarylureas on the phosphorylation of eIF2 was studied. KLN tTA pBISA DLor PC 3 prostate cancer cells were incubated with three active and one inactive N N diarylurea compounds and determined the phosphorylation of eIF2 by Western blot analysis. As shown in three N N diarylureas that increased firefly renilla luciferase ratio and induce endogenous CHOP also caused the phosphorylation of eIF2 whereas the inactive N N diarylurea compound had no effect on eIF2 phosphorylation. To determine if the phosphorylation of eIF2 was responsible for reduced amount of the ternary complex in the cells treated with N N diarylurea compounds previously generated PC 3 human prostate cancer cell lines in which expression of endogenous eIF2 was replaced with recombinant wild type WT or non phosphorylatable eIF2 S51A were utilized. These cells were co transfected with tTA and pBISA DLdual luciferase expression vector and treated with three active and one inactive N N diarylurea compounds. demonstrates replacement of endogenous eIF2 with the non phosphorylated eIF2 S51A abrogated the activity of N N diarylureas in this assay. These finding demonstrate conclusively that N N diarylurea compounds reduce the amount of the ternary complex by causing phosphorylation of eIF2 .

As shown in active N N diarylurea compounds inhibited cyclin D1 protein expression without any effect on p27protein. These agents had no effect on the level of cyclin D1 mRNA indicating that they inhibit cyclin D1 expression at the level of translation.

Four distinct kinases are shown to specifically phosphorylate eIF2 in response to the metabolic state of the cells or external stimuli. These are PKR PKR like endoplasmic reticulum kinase PERK general control derepressible kinase 2 GCN2 and heme regulated inhibitor. To determine if N N diarylurea compounds cause phosphorylation of eIF2 by causing activation of one or more of these kinases knockdown expression of these kinases was assayed in KLN tTA pBISA DLcells individually or in combinations treating the cells with compound 1781 or DMSO. As seen in knocking down the expression of PKR PERK or GCN had no effect on the induction of F luc R luc ratio by compound 1781. In contrast knocking down the expression of HRI almost completely abrogated activity of the compound 1181 . Furthermore simultaneous knocking down of PKR PERK and GCN2 failed to abrogate effects of 1781 indicating that these three kinases do not play a role in the induction of eIF2 phosphorylation by N N diarylurea compounds. Furthermore real time PCR analysis revealed that knocking down HRI expression but not that of PKR PRK or GCN2 abrogated induction of CHOP mRNA by compound 1781 further supporting the finding that the HRI is the molecular target of N N diarylurea compounds . To further confirm these data KLN tTA pBISA DLcells were transfected with or without siRNA against HRI followed by their treatment with one inactive and three active N N diarylurea compounds or vehicle. As shown in knocking down the expression of HRI abrogated induction of R luc R luc ratio indicative of the limited availability of the ternary complex by all three active compounds with no effect on the inactive compound . Finally all four kinases were knocked down by about the same efficiency ruling out the possibility that the lack of effect by PKR PERK and GCN2 was due to failure of siRNA knockdown . Taken together these data clearly demonstrated that N N diarylurea compounds cause phosphorylation of eIF2 specifically by activating HRI.

Further studies were done to determine which eIF2 kinase s mediate phosphorylation of eIF2 by N N diarylureas. In accordance with this aspect the expression of each one of the four eIF2 kinases was knocked down either individually or in all possible combinations. Mouse KLN tTA pBISA DLand human CRL 2813 melanoma cells were transfected with siRNAs targeting PKR GCN2 PERK or HRI which knocked down their respective mRNAs with 70 80 efficiency see data presented in Table 1 .

The co transfected cells were treated with vehicle or an active N N diarylurea compound 1781 and determined the normalized F luc R luc ratio. shows that reduced expression of HRI significantly abrogated the activity of 1781. In sharp contrast knocking down PKR PERK or GCN2 expression either individually or in double or triple combination had no effect on the activity of 1781. Consistent with these results silencing HRI but not the other eIF2 kinases abrogated the increased expression of CHOP mRNA induced by compound 1781 . Furthermore silencing of HRI reduced the induction of eIF2 phosphorylation by 1781 . Finally studies in additional cell lines with N N diarylureas showed that knocking down expression of HRI but not other eIF2 kinases abrogated the effect of all active N N diarylureas on the ternary complex abundance in these cell lines . Taken together these data demonstrate that activation of HRI mediates the phosphorylation of eIF2 the reduced availability of the ternary complex and the other downstream effects induced by active N N diarylureas.

Compound 1781 was added to lysates of CRL 2813 cells or heme supplemented rabbit reticulocytes and phosphorylation of eIF2 by Western blot was determined. As shown in compound 1781 caused phosphorylation of eIF2 in cell lysates in a dose dependent manner ruling out the possibility the N N diarylureas activate HRI due to cellular cytotoxicity.

Reduced availability of the ternary complex causes inhibition of translation initiation and thereby of cell proliferation. Cell proliferation was selected as a biological response parameter to demonstrate target specificity and in vitro potency of N N diarylureas. The effects of N N diarylureas on the proliferation KLN mouse squamous cell carcinoma CRL 2351 human breast CRL 2813 human melanoma A549 human lung and PC 3 human prostate cancer cell lines were tested. N N diarylureas active in the ternary complex assay were potent inhibitors of cells proliferation see data presented in Table 2 .

To determine if N N diarylureas inhibit cell proliferation by reducing the availability of the ternary complex the effect of N N diarylureas on proliferation of previously described transgenic PC 3 human prostate cancer cell lines expressing either the non phosphorylatable eIF2 S51A mutant or the eIF2 WT was studied. The results of these studies shown in demonstrate that PC 3 cancer cells expressing the non phosphorylatable eIF2 S51A mutant were resistant while those expressing eIF2 WT were sensitive to the inhibition of cell proliferation by N N diarylureas. Reducing the expression of HRI the eIF2 kinase that mediates N N diarylurea induced phosphorylation of eIF2 similarly abrogates the effect of these agents on cell proliferation . Taken together these data demonstrate that N N diarylureas possess the required potency and specificity to interrogate the role of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAternary complex in normal physiology and pathobiology of human disorders.

To determine correlate the sensitivity of the various cell lines to anti proliferative effects of N N diarylureas with the expression of HRI cell lysates were probed with anti HRI antibodies and relative level of HRI expression was correlated with the inhibition of cell proliferation exerted by N N diarylureas. KLN cells which express undetectable levels of HRI are very resistant to inhibition of cell proliferation by N N diarylureas whereas CRL 2813 cells that express high level of HRI are most sensitive see Table 2 and .

To study toxicity effects mice were treated with various doses of compound 1781 or vehicle. As shown in seven consecutive day administration of 1781 had no adverse effect on weight gain or food consumption of mice even at the highest dose tested indicating that N N diarylureas can be utilized to probe normal and pathobiology of the ternary complex in vivo.

The ternary complex assay described herein is particularly robust because expression of both reporters is controlled by the same enhancer promoter complex therefore any effect of the test compounds on the transcription will be same for both reporters. Furthermore any effect of the test compounds on translation elongation or termination will be similar for both reporters. Because of these features the ternary complex assay described herein controls for many variables at once. In addition the primary assay is backed by the secondary assays such as the expression of CHOP protein and mRNA which faithfully reflects the abundance of the ternary complex. The specificity of the assay was further demonstrated by testing well known anti cancer agents for their effects on the abundance of the ternary complex. None of these anti cancer agents with no known effect on the formation of the ternary complex showed any activity indicating that this assay is suitable for identification of mechanism specific active compounds. In addition to identifying privileged scaffolds that could be utilized for design of focused libraries for lead generation a library of N N diarylureas was prepared and studied using the ternary complex assay. Further characterization of selected compounds indicated that N N diarylurea compounds reduced the amount of the ternary complex by causing phosphorylation of eIF2 . These findings indicate that the ternary complex assay is highly suitable for guiding development of translation initiation inhibitors and that these N N diarylurea compounds do in fact display potent anti proliferative activity correlated with their activity in the ternary complex assay.

The data described herein indicate that the active N N diarylurea compounds cause phosphorylation of eIF2 induce expression of CHOP mRNA and protein and potently inhibit cell proliferation. The N N diarylurea compounds also preferentially inhibited expression of cyclin D1. The data presented herein demonstrate that phosphorylation of eIF2 by N N diarylurea compounds is required for reducing amount of the ternary complex by these agents. It was further demonstrated that N N diarylureas compounds inhibit cell proliferation by causing phosphorylation of eIF2 with ICvalues in the low sub micromolar range.

The data presented herein demonstrates the clear potential for targeting of the eIF2.GTP.Met tRNAi ternary complex in a cell based high throughput screening campaign to develop translation initiation inhibitors and potential of N N diarylurea compounds for development of novel mechanism specific agents for cancer therapy.

Plasmids The bi directional mammalian expression vector pBI Clontech CA was modified to expand the multiple cloning sites MCSs and thereafter named pBISA. This vector contains seven copies of the tetracycline regulated transactivator response element TRE which together act as core promoter enhancer. The TRE is flanked on both sides by minimal human cytomegalovirus CMV minimal promoters allowing bi directional transcription and two MCS . Firefly and renilla luciferases were subcloned into MCS I and MCS II respectively. This base plasmid designated pBISA DL transcribes two mRNAs that contain the 90 nucleotide plasmid derived 5 UTR same sequence in both mRNAs and the ORF encoding either firefly or renilla luciferase followed by a polyadenylation sequence. This plasmid was further modified by inserting the 5 UTR of ATF 4 into MCS I in front of the firefly luciferase mRNA. Transcription from this direction generates an mRNA that contains the firefly luciferase ORF preceded by a 5 UTR composed of 90 nucleotides derived from the plasmid and 267 nucleotides derived from the 5 UTR of ATF 4 mRNA. Transcription from the other direction generates an mRNA that contains the renilla luciferase ORF preceded only by the 90 nucleotide plasmid derived sequence in the 5 UTR . This expression plasmid is called pBISA DL.

Stable and transient transfection Cells were seeded at the density of 10in 60 mm stable transfection or 10cells per well of 96 well plate transient transfection plates and transfected one day later using the Qiagen Transfectamine transfection kit. For selection of stable cell lines transfected cells were transferred to 100 mm plates and selected with appropriate antibiotics.

Western blotting Cell extracts were separated by SDS PAGE and probed with anti phosphoserine 51 eIF2 cc PS51 eIF2 anti total eIF2 specific antibodies PS51 eIF2 Biosource International Hopkinton Mass. anti CHOP or anti actin Santa Cruz Biotechnology CA as described.

Robotics Liquid handling was conducted on a Biomek FX Beckman Coulter . Luminescence measurements were conducted on a Microbeta Trilux Perkin Elmer . Both are components on a Sagian Core robotic platform Beckman Coulter .

Dual luciferase assay Cells or minced tumors expressing firefly and renilla luciferases were lysed and the extracts assayed with a glow type dual luciferase assay kit per manufacturer s instruction Promega Inc. Madison Wis. .

Real time PCR For real time PCR total RNA was extracted with TaqMan Gene Expression Cells to Ct Kit Applied Biosystems Branchburg N.J. according to manufacturer s protocol. Contaminating DNA was removed by DNase I treatment. 1 Step Real time PCR was performed on a Bio Rad iCycler IQ5 system by using B R 1 Step SYBR Green qRT PCR Kit Quanta BioSciences Gaithersburg Md. according to manufacturer s specifications. The thermal cycler conditions were as follows 10 minutes at 50 C. hold for 5 minutes at 95 C. followed by 2 step PCR for 45 cycles of 95 C. for 15 seconds followed by 60 C. for 30 seconds. All PCRs were performed triplicate in independent PCR runs. Mean values of these repeated measurements were used for calculation. To calibrate the results all the transcripts quantities were normalized to 18S rRNA was 18S ribosomal RNA like mRNA in mouse . The following primers were used in real time PCR reactions 

The general synthetic approaches to produce N N diarylurea compounds of the present invention are set forth below.

The first series of molecules in this example most of which are symmetrical N N diarylureas substituted by heteroatoms or groups of heteroatoms was prepared by using appropriate commercially available aryl isocyanates and aryl amines according to Scheme 1.

The synthesis of compounds 1 3 was carried out in one step in 1 4 dioxane at 55 C. overnight. The same simple procedure using 5 aminocresol or 3 methoxy 4 methylaniline as new starting aryl amines was followed for the elaboration of the unsymmetrical N N diarylureas 4 9 according to Scheme 2.

Analogs 11 13 and 15 17 were prepared in a slightly different manner. The synthesis began by the elaboration of two different substituted anilines starting from 2 methyl 5 nitrophenol. Compound 10 which was the precursor of N N diarylureas 11 13 was obtained via a classic Mitsunobu coupling reaction in presence of N N dimethylethanolamine according to Scheme 3.

Reagents and conditions i N N dimethylethanolamine PPh DEAD THF 0 C. ii SnCl EtOH 90 C. phenylisocyanates dioxane 55 C.

In the same way compound 14 which was the precursor of N N diarylureas 15 17 was obtained starting from 4 2 hydroxymethyl morpholine according to Scheme 4.

Reagents and conditions i 4 2 hydroxyethyl morpholine PPh DEAD THF 0 C. ii SnCl EtOH 90 C. iii phenylisocyanates dioxane 55 C.

After reduction of the nitro group in amine by the use of tin chloride in ethanol at 90 C. the substituted anilines were directly coupled to the same various isocyanates in 1 4 dioxane at 55 C. overnight to produce 11 13 and 15 17.

In order to couple piperazine with 2 methyl 5 nitrophenol via a Mitsunobu reaction compound 19 the secondary amine was first protected by a benzyloxycarbonyl group. The protection was carried out with benzylchloroformate and a solution of NaOH 4N to afford 18 according to Scheme 5.

After the coupling reaction using triphenylphosphine and DEAD in THF the nitro group was as previously described reduced in amine and coupled to the same various isocyanates to produce protected intermediates 20 22. Finally after a hydrogenolysis carried out at atmospheric pressure under hydrogen and in presence of palladium on carbon a precipitation in a solution of HCl 4N in 1 4 dioxane allowed the isolation of N N diarylureas 23 25 as salts.

The last series of molecules in this example in which heteroatoms were included in the aromatic ring was prepared starting from several substituted pyridine and pyrimidine and using the same general procedure in 1 4 dioxane at 55 C. overnight according to Scheme 6.

While compounds 26 and 27 appeared to be easily isolable by crystallization or purification by preparative HPLC compound 28 which was derivated from 2 amino 4 hydroxy 6 methylpyrimidine appeared to be not soluble in any solvent. Because it could not be purified this compound was removed from the structure activity relationship SAR study.

As a non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 188 mg 1 mmol and 3 4 dichloroaniline 178 mg 1.1 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of anhydrous dioxane. The reaction mixture was warmed to 55 C. stirred under nitrogen over night and then cooled to room temperature. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the crude was purified twice by crystallization in ethyl acetate hexane to afford 1 262 mg 75 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 222 mg 1 mmol and 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl aniline 215 mg 1.1 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 2 250 mg 60 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 600 mg 2.353 mmol and 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl aniline 647 mg 2.824 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 3 1140 mg 78 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.12 s 1H CH 7.59 s 1H CH . C NMR 400 MHz CDOD 152.89 141.32 132.55 131.80 124.9 122.2 118.4 115.24.

As another non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 202 mg 1.073 mmol and 5 aminocresol 120 mg 0.976 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 4 244 mg 81 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.24 s 1H OH 8.82 s 1H NH 8.57 s 1H NH 7.85 s 1H CH 7.47 d J 11 Hz 1H CH 7.28 d J 11 Hz 1H CH 7.04 s 1H CH 6.90 d J 10 Hz 1H CH 6.69 d J 10 Hz 1H CH 2.02 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 156.09 152.84 140.77 138.45 131.68 131.19 131.06 123.54 119.78 118.84 118.35 109.71 105.96 16.09.

As another non limiting example 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 198 mg 0.894 mmol and 5 aminocresol 100 mg 0.813 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 5 102 mg 46 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.26 s 1H OH 9.03 s 1H NH 8.64 s 1H NH 8.12 s 1H CH 7.58 m 2H CH 7.10 s 1H CH 6.92 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.69 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 2.04 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 156.09 125.93 140.17 138.38 132.62 131.05 123.53 122.72 118.40 109.79 106.04 16.07.

As another non limiting example 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 200 mg 0.784 mmol and 5 aminocresol 106 mg 0.862 mmol were used following the general procedure A to synthesize 9. At the end of the reaction the crude was purified by flash chromatography 15 to 30 of ethyl acetate in cyclohexane . After concentration of the pure fractions the white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 6 260 mg 52.5 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.27 s 1H OH 9.25 s 1H NH 8.79 s 1H NH 8.11 s 2H CH 7.61 s 1H CH 7.12 s 1H CH 6.94 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.72 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 2.05 s 3H CH . C NMR 500 MHz DMSO 156.11 152.97 142.26 138.20 131.48 131.23 130.97 127.27 125.10 122.93 118.76 114.85 110.05 106.30 16.09.

As another non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 151 mg 0.803 mmol and 3 methoxy 4 methylaniline 100 mg 0.730 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 7 204 mg 86 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 8.91 s 1H NH 8.70 s 1H NH 7.88 s 1H CH 7.50 d J 9 Hz 1H CH 7.30 d J 9 Hz 1H CH 7.19 s 1H CH 7.01 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.82 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 3.76 s 3H OCH 2.07 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.99 152.97 140.71 139.02 131.70 131.22 130.87 123.67 119.91 119.84 119.00 110.72 102.14 55.72 16.15.

As another non limiting example 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 151 mg 0.682 mmol and 3 methoxy 4 methylaniline 85 mg 0.620 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 8 102 mg 46 as a white powder. 1H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.07 s 1H NH 8.74 s 1H NH 8.07 s 1H CH arom. 7.60 m 2H CH arom. 7.17 s 1H CH arom. 7.00 d J 10 Hz 1H CH arom. 6.82 d J 10 Hz 1H CH arom. 3.74 s 3H OCH3 2.06 s 3H CH3 . 13C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.99 153.05 140.10 138.95 132.64 130.87 123.70 119.95 117.39 110.85 102.22 55.70 16.14.

As another non limiting example 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 143 mg 0.562 mmol and 3 methoxy 4 methylaniline 70 mg 0.511 mmol were used following the general procedure A to isolate 9 92 mg 46 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.32 s 1H NH 8.90 s 1H NH 8.10 m 2H CH 7.61 s 1H CH 7.18 s 1H CH7.00 d J 10 Hz 1H CH 6.85 d J 10 Hz 1H CH 3.74 s 3H OCH 2.06 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.98 153.05 142.59 138.74 131.50 131.18 130.86 128.06 125.35 122.64 120.16 118.59 114.92 111.08 102.42 55.73 16.15.

As another non limiting example 2 methyl 5 nitrophenol 2.00 g 13.07 mmol N N dimethylethanolamine 1.31 mL 13.07 mmol and triphenylphosphine 4.46 g 16.99 mmol were placed in a 100 mL round bottomed flask under nitrogen. 40 mL of anhydrous THF were added via syringe at 0 C. After stirring the reaction mixture at this temperature for 10 minutes 7.32 mL of a solution of diethylazodicarboxylate 40 in toluene 2.93 g 16.99 mmol were added via syringe. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred under nitrogen for two hours. The solvents were removed under vacuum. Triphenylphosphine oxide formed during the reaction was precipitated in a mixture of ethyl acetate hexane and filtrated. The crude was then purified by flash chromatography 0 to 2 of MeOH in DCM to afford 10 2.11 g 70 as a yellow oil.

As another non limiting example Compound 10 262 mg 1.169 mmol was dissolved in 10 mL of EtOH. SnCl.HO 1316 mg 5.848 mmol was added and the temperature was increased to 90 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1.5 hours cooled to room temperature and poured into iced water. The solution was made alkaline with solid NaOH and then extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . Organic extracts were combined washed with water 60 mL and brine 60 mL dried over sodium sulfate concentrated and finally dried under high vacuum over night to afford the substituted aniline 202 mg 1.041 mmol as a light yellow oil. This compound was then dissolved in 10 mL of anhydrous dioxane and 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 254 mg 1.353 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was warmed to 55 C. stirred under nitrogen overnight and then cooled to room temperature. The crude was purified by flash chromatography 0 to 2 of MeOH in DCM . After concentration of the pure fractions the obtained white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 11 260 mg 58 as a white powder. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.92 s 1H NH 8.69 s 1H NH 7.85 s 1H CH 7.45 d J 8.7 Hz 1H CH 7.27 d J 8.7 Hz 1H CH 7.15 m 1H CH 6.98 d J 7.8 Hz 1H CH 6.80 d J 7.8 Hz 1H CH 3.98 t J 5.7 Hz 2H OCH 2.63 t J 5.7 Hz 2H CHN 2.21 s 6H N CH 2.04 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.22 152.97 140.67 138.88 131.68 131.19 130.90 123.66 120.11 119.89 118.99 110.88 103.09 66.72 58.30 46.30 16.11.

As another non limiting example Compound 10 155 mg 0.692 mmol and 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl isocyanate 151 mg 0.682 mmol were used following the general procedure B to synthesize 12. At the end of the reaction the mixture was precipitated in a solution of HCl 4N in dioxane. After filtration the white solid was dissolved in acetic acid and purified by preparative HPLC 10 to 40 of acetonitrile in water with 0.1 of acetic acid to afford 12 161 mg 52 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.26 s 1H NH 8.86 s 1H NH 8.09 s 1H CH 7.62 m 2H CH 7.18 s 1H CH 7.15 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.85 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.02 t J 5.5 Hz 2H OCH 2.71 t J 5.5 Hz 2H CHN 2.27 s 6H N CH 2.08 s 3H CH .

As another non limiting example Compound 10 248 mg 1.107 mmol and 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 326 mg 1.280 mmol were used following the general procedure B to synthesize 13. At the end of the reaction the crude was purified by flash chromatography 2 to 8 of MeOH in DCM . After concentration of the pure fractions the white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 13 260 mg 52.5 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H NH 8.90 s 1H NH 8.12 s 2H CH 7.62 m 1H CH 7.19 s 1H CH 7.03 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.88 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.03 t J 5.5 Hz 2H OCH 2.68 t J 5.5 Hz 2H CHN 2.25 s 6H N CH 2.09 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.24 153.05 142.58 138.61 131.51 131.19 130.90 127.78 125.34 122.62 120.46 118.53 114.89 111.26 103.40 66.77 58.30 46.28 15.95.

As another non limiting example 2 methyl 5 nitrophenol 2.00 g 13.07 mmol 4 2 hydroxyethyl morpholine 1.71 mg 13.07 mmol triphenylphosphine 4.46 g 16.99 mmol and 7.32 mL of a solution of diethylazodicarboxylate 40 in toluene 2.93 g 16.99 mmol were used following the general procedure B to synthesize 14. After treatments the crude was purified by flash chromatography 0 to 3 of MeOH in DCM to afford 14 0.85 g 23 as a brown oil.

As another non limiting example Compound 14 278 mg 1.045 mmol and 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 285 mg 1.118 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 14. At the end of the reaction the crude was purified by flash chromatography in normal phase 10 to 0 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate . After concentration of the pure fractions the obtained white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 15 217 mg 49 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 8.94 s 1H NH 8.70 s 1H NH 7.89 s 1H CH 7.51 d J 8.5 Hz 1H CH 7.32 d J 8.5 Hz 1H CH 7.20 s 1H CH 7.02 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.81 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.05 t J 5.5 Hz 2H OCH 3.58 m 4H CHOCH 2.73 t J 5.5 Hz 2H CHN 2.50 m 4H N CH 2.08 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.19 152.96 140.66 138.88 131.68 131.19 130.91 123.67 120.15 119.89 118.98 110.95 103.22 66.87 66.46 57.62 54.62 15.98.

As another non limiting example Compound 14 267 mg 1.004 mmol and 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 241 mg 1.091 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 16. At the end of the reaction the crude was purified by flash chromatography 10 to 0 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate . After concentration of the pure fractions the obtained white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 16 263 mg 58 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.11 s 1H NH 8.74 s 1H NH 8.09 s 1H CH 7.61 m 2H CH 7.20 s 1H CH 7.02 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.83 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.05 t J 5.5 Hz 2H OCH 3.58 m 4H CHOCH 2.73 t J 5.5 Hz 2H CHN 2.50 m 4H N CH 2.08 s 3H CH . C NMR 400 MHz DMSO 157.23 153.07 140.11 138.85 1321.65 130.92 123.71 120.27 117.35 110.12 103.40 66.77 66.37 57.65 54.28 15.98.

As another non limiting example Compound 14 273 mg 1.026 mmol and 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 285 mg 1.118 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 17. At the end of the reaction the crude was purified by flash chromatography in normal phase 20 to 10 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate . After concentration of the pure fractions the obtained white solid was crystallized in hexane to afford 17 235 mg 48 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 10.11 s 1H NH 9.34 s 1H NH 8.11 s 2H CH 7.60 s 1H CH 7.22 s 1H CH 7.02 d J 7.5 Hz 1H CH 6.85 d J 7.5 Hz 1H CH 4.05 m 2H OCH 3.58 m 4H CHOCH 2.73 m 2H CHN 2.51 m 4H N CH 2.08 s 3H CH .

As another non limiting example piperazine 3.00 g 23.04 mmol was dissolved in 15 mL of water in a three neck round bottomed flask. A solution of benzylchloroformate 3.95 mL 27.65 mmol in 15 mL of acetonitrile was added drop wise via isobar cylindrical funnel. In order to maintain the pH around 9 a solution of NaOH 4N was added drop wise via a second isobar cylindrical funnel. The reaction mixture was stirred over night at room temperature and then extracted with DCM 2 75 mL . The aqueous phase containing the final compound was acidified with HCl N and extracted with DCM 3 75 mL . Organic extracts were combined washed with brine 150 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The crude was purified by flash chromatography 0 to 2 of MeOH in DCM to afford 18 5.41 g 90 as a colorless oil.

As another non limiting example 2 methyl 5 nitrophenol 1.70 g 11.11 mmol compound 18 2.94 mg 11.1 mmol triphenylphosphine 3.79 g 14.44 mmol and 6.27 mL of a solution of diethylazodicarboxylate 40 in toluene 2.51 g 14.44 mmol were used following the general procedure B to synthesize 19. After treatments the crude was then purified by flash chromatography 0 to 3 of MeOH in DCM to afford 19 3.82 g 86 as a yellow oil.

As another non limiting example Compound 19 1.172 g 2.937 mmol and 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 0.545 g 2.778 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 20. After treatments the crude was purified by flash chromatography 40 to 0 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate to afford 20 0.984 g 60 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example Compound 19 1.042 g 2.609 mmol and 4 chloro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 0.545 g 2.459 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 21. After treatments the crude was purified by flash chromatography 40 to 0 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate to afford 21 1.045 g 68 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example Compound 19 992 mg 2.486 mmol and 3 5 bis trifluoromethyl phenylisocyanate 600 mg 2.352 mmol were used following the general procedure C to synthesize 22. After treatments the crude was purified by flash chromatography 5 to 0 of cyclohexane in ethyl acetate to afford 22 945 mg 71 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example Compound 20 870 mg 1.561 mmol was dissolved in 20 mL of MeOH and Pd C 10 by weight 93 mg was carefully added. The reaction mixture was stirred under a flux of hydrogen for 2 hours at atmospheric pressure and room temperature the reaction was monitored by LCMS and then filtered through a pad of celite. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by HPLC 10 to 45 of acetonitrile in water with 0.1 of acetic acid . After concentration of the pure fractions the compound was precipitated in a solution of HCl 4N in dioxane to afford 23 379 mg 49 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 12.03 s 1H NH 9.77 s 1H NH 9.57 m 2H NH 9.36 s 1H NH 7.89 s 1H CH 7.50 d J 8.5 Hz 1H CH 7.32 m 2H CH 7.05 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.83 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.33 m 2H OCH 3.74 3.39 m 10H CHN 2.13 s 3H CH .

As another non limiting example Compound 21 930 mg 1.573 mmol was treated following the general procedure D and purified by HPLC 15 to 45 of acetonitrile in water with 0.1 of acetic acid . After concentration of the pure fractions the compound was precipitated in a solution of HCl 4N in dioxane to afford 24 600 mg 72 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 12.00 s 1H NH 9.94 s 1H NH 9.61 m 2H NH 9.40 s 1H NH 8.11 s 1H CH 7.61 m 2H CH 7.29 s 1H CH 7.06 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.85 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.37 m 2H OCH 3.85 3.46 m 10H CHN 2.13 s 3H CH .

As another non limiting example Compound 22 840 mg 1.345 mmol was treated following the general procedure D and purified by HPLC 15 to 45 of acetonitrile in water with 0.1 of acetic acid . After concentration of the pure fractions the compound was precipitated in a solution of HCl 4N in dioxane to afford 25 318 mg 42 as a white powder. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 12.13 s 1H NH 10.45 s 1H NH 9.71 m 2H NH 9.58 s 1H NH 8.10 s 2H CH 7.61 m 12H CH 7.29 s 1H CH 7.07 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 6.87 d J 8 Hz 1H CH 4.37 m 2H OCH 3.77 3.40 m 10H CHN 2.14 s 3H CH .

As another non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 250 mg 1.330 mmol and 2 amino 3 hydroxypyridine 146 mg 1.330 mmol were dissolved in 10 mL of anhydrous dioxane. The reaction mixture was warmed to 55 C. stirred under nitrogen over night and then cooled to room temperature. The crude was purified twice by crystallization in EtOH to afford 26 178 mg 45 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 250 mg 1.330 mmol and 4 amino 6 methoxypyrimidine 166 mg 1.330 mmol were used following the general procedure E to synthesize 27. At the end of the reaction the crude was dissolved in acetic acid and purified by HPLC 70 to 100 of acetonitrile in water to afford 27 224 mg 54 as a white powder.

As another non limiting example 3 4 dichlorophenylisocyanate 250 mg 1.330 mmol and 2 amino 4 hydroxy 6 methylpyrimidine 166 mg 1.330 mmol were used following the general procedure E to synthesize 28. Unfortunately at the end of the reaction the crude wasn t purified as it wasn t soluble in any solvent tested.

Other embodiments will be evident to those of skill in the art. It should be understood that the foregoing description is provided for clarity only and is merely exemplary. The spirit and scope of the present invention are not limited to the above examples but are encompassed by the following claims. All publications and patent applications cited above are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically indicated to be so incorporated by reference.

