---

title: Information search, retrieval and distillation into knowledge objects
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide for various methods and apparatuses for searching bodies of knowledge, such as previously indexed source documents reachable over a network, search results from previous searches, and results from performing meta-searches. Search criteria is received from a client, and the bodies of knowledge are searched based on the search criteria, and search results provided responsive to said searching. Search results may be configured to have associated distillation triggers, where selecting a trigger causes its associated search result to be distilled in real-time. Distilled search results can be indexed into portions of the source document for focused entry, and can also be grouped and analytically presented on mid-menus to allow the user to review distilled data in summary form. Results may also have associated status symbols indicating by symbol a particular topic area to which a result is related, and by opacity or other indicator the apparent relevance of a result to the particular topic area. Search and viewing preferences may be determined according to psychometrics, user selection of a default user category, through a question/answer session, or based on monitoring user activity which incrementally defines a profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204881&OS=08204881&RS=08204881
owner: Vision Point Services, LLC
number: 08204881
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101129
---
This application is a continuation of presently co pending application Ser. No. 09 649 436 filed Aug. 25 2000 entitled Information Search Retrieval and distillation into Knowledge Objects which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 336 020 filed Jun. 18 1999 entitled Method and Apparatus for Composing A Search for Searching a Corpus of Information or the Internet for Displaying the Search Results in an Easily Viewable Manner and for Crawling Summarizing and Structuring the Corpus of Information and application Ser. No. 09 565 674 filed May 4 2000 entitled Information Search Retrieval and Distillation Into Knowledge Objects . Each of these applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to searching a network for text and non text data and providing for storing and forwarding search results.

Recently there has been a vast proliferation of networking connection options for businesses and general users alike for connecting to networks such as intranets and the Internet. Many such businesses and users position themselves as an end point or point of interest hereafter generally web sites to whom others can connect and obtain information and other material. After several years of such end points becoming accessible of the networks an enormous amount of information and other material is now available in an online electronic format.

A typical method for locating and reviewing such information is by way of a web browser such as Netscape Navigator Internet Explorer Opera and other network application programs hereafter generally browsers . Unfortunately the very richness of available information has made finding anything specific an enormously complex and tedious task. The vast number of available web sites can be likened to a beach where a particular search seeks to locate a particular few grains of sand.

Typical search methods employ either data categorization or keyword searching. In the former a well known example is www Yahoo com which provides broad categories and successively narrower topic areas. In the latter there are typically two types. The first are traditional search engines such as NorthernLight com AltaVista com Excite corn and the like which crawl web sites and index the words found therein. The second are meta search engines such as SurfWax com DogPile com and the like which execute a search across multiple search engines and provide options for collating results. It is estimated that only 10 of all web sites are indexed. Please note that periods within uniform resource locators URLs have been replaced with hyphens to prevent hypertext links in an online copy of this application. 

Unfortunately both categorization and keyword searching have significant drawbacks. Categorization requires intervention to place a site within a relevant category or categories. Such categorization is very subjective and therefore may result in significant omissions or misleading results when a searcher drills down to detailed categories. And categorization is resource intensive and therefore few web sites are categorized. Thus typically only main stream sites are categorized.

Although keyword searching does not suffer the subjective effects of categorization such searching requires a searcher to know the correct terms to use in order to perform an effective search. And such searches typically result in a vast number of irrelevant search results hits due to multiple uses for terms in diverse disciplines. For example a search for international policy will return results concerning politics college admission standards international newspaper policies foreign advocacy etc. as each would use those terms someplace on their web page.

A further limitation to both techniques is that once the task of determining search results is accomplished and results provided to a searcher s browser there is no way to share those results with another party without re executing the search. This results in a huge waste of computing resources. A related limitation is that the inherent lack of structure to web page data tends to result in web pages having large volumes of data within a given search result where little of the web page data may actually be relevant to a particular query. In addition to making it difficult to find a relevant portion of a search result large results can overwhelm the output capabilities of some devices e.g. mobile devices used for searching.

Methods and apparatuses are disclosed for searching bodies of knowledge such bodies including previously indexed source documents reachable over a network search results from previous searches and results from performing meta searches. Search criteria is received from a client. The bodies of knowledge are searched based on the search criteria and search results provided responsive to said searching. The search results may be configured with a distillation trigger wherein selecting a trigger causes a related search result to be distilled in real time. Distilled search results can be indexed into portions of the source document for focused entry and can also be grouped and analytically presented on mid menus to allow the user to review distilled data in summary form. Results may also have associated status symbols or tokens indicating by symbol a particular topic to which a result is related. For example user perceptible characteristics of the symbol such as shape or opacity can be used to indicate a result s topic area concept document type and apparent relevance to the search criteria.

These and other objects and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Various exemplary embodiments of the invention are illustrated and discussed herein. In one embodiment the invention is directed towards searching the Internet which is a well known collection of public and private data communication and multimedia networks e.g. intranets Wide Area Networks WAN Local Area Networks LAN wireless networks cable television based networks etc. that operate using common protocols to form a world wide network of networks.

Throughout embodiments of this invention various input output devices and techniques are contemplated including but not limited to wireless mobile voice activated voice recognition and audio text to speech devices and techniques. Examples include but are not limited to personal computers PCs laptops Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cellular telephones. A mix of input output modalities is therefore contemplated. For example a user may use a keypad on a PC PDA or cellular telephone for instance to enter input and may receive search results via a browser a user may use voice to communicate and may receive results via a browser and a user may use voice to communicate and may receive a response via text to speech audio feedback. Communication mediums may be wired including Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Plain Old Telephone System POTS the Internet Integrated System Digital Network ISDN and DSL Digital Subscriber Line cable modem for example or wireless including microwave and satellite transmissions or combinations thereof.

Searching can be focused on retrieving text based documents graphics web pages or other desired data types such as structured storage databases and the like music spreadsheets and the like. For simplicity it is assumed a search query is in English language but other languages and data formats e.g. graphics may also be searched. For example a graphics fragment could be dropped into a query box by way of Object Linking and Embedding OLE or through a Java Bean or ActiveX object. 

For the purposes of this description the terms Uniform Resource Locator URL document origination and source address are intended to be generally synonymous as each term essentially references particular information at a particular network location. For simplicity it is assumed addresses conform to the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP dot quad format 0.0.0.0 . However it should be appreciated that other address formats such as wireless node identifiers may be used without loss of generality.

It is assumed search commands and results are English based. However such is not required so long as individual language components can be identified and appropriate analysis models provided for desired search types. The phrase candidate source document will be used to refer to an information source that may be returned to a user in response to a search request depending on whether search criteria is satisfied.

Source documents e.g. search results can be returned to a user as is or in a distilled format which is a reduced content version of a source document. For example for a text document distillation provides a condensed abstract of the document based on the language within the source document see . Distillation is advantageous for client devices having limited display areas such as Personal Digital Assistants PDA portable computers Wireless Application Protocol WAP enabled devices such as mobile phones pagers two way radios and smartphones and other portable communication or computing devices having limited screens and or computing resources the phrase mobile device will be used to generally reference such PDAs WAP enabled devices portable communication or computing devices etc. .

Distillation is also generally helpful as it may be configured to provide a consistent interface displaying brief per user preferences overviews of source documents thus allowing for example one to quickly determine the relevance of particular search results.

In one embodiment a user of the client and clients contact the search server to submit search criteria and receive results thereto. It is expected that searches are keyword or natural language queries. It will be appreciated however that searching is not limited to text searches. For example pattern analysis or image recognition may be applied to image data to locate images by their data content. Search results are obtained through comparisons of search criteria with known search domains see such as previously indexed web pages meta searches by piggy backing onto private search engines or searching against saved searched of other users. Search results have an associated icon for creating a distillation of a result according to set user preferences see .

In one embodiment search results are packaged as structured objects such as HTML or XML objects hereafter result objects with appropriate characteristic tags to identify the original searcher user of the client as well as the nature and contents of the search results. For example if a user wanted to see focus words in a document a focus words XML section would be defined with the appropriate words therein. It will be appreciated that other structured storage can represent result objects XML is assumed due to its text based data tagging and broad industry support. The phrase knowledge object may refer to a single result object as well as a collection of result objects. 

Because XML provides tagged structure to result objects such objects may be linked within a structured lexicon allowing building a heuristic search capability for subsequent searches as well as user communities of interest based on saved searches. Result objects may also include public encryption keys or other validation requirements to restrict access to some or all of the tagged sections within a saved result object. Result objects are intended to be E mailed or otherwise transferred to other users and in one embodiment the search servers track result object sharing between users so that users can be informed when there is a change in shared data. In one embodiment an editorial module e.g. executed by a search server administrator allows one to edit and or contribute supplemental content to result objects.

In one embodiment an application programming interface API is provided for interfacing with a search server . The API provides an interface to the search server through which third party developers or users can provide search services that are integrated with the search server. In addition the API will enable search server administrators to extend the capabilities or customize a search server without modification to the underlying searching engine employed by the search server.

In one embodiment the API is implemented by way of executable objects such as ActiveX controls or JavaBeans which are Java based platform independent controls developed by Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. . It will be appreciated that other object formats can be used to implement the API. Executable objects are intended to be stored within a search server executing as server side objects however in an alternate embodiment executable objects can be stored within result objects for downloading to a client as needed. The executable objects are used by a client as needed based on the preferences see set by a user of the client e.g. the user indicates the executable objects should be used when distilling the search results see .

The executable object whether stored in a search server or within a result object may be configured to be executed when search results are received by a client. Associated with the executable objects are extended processing statements that incorporate regular expressions user preferences or other data extraction techniques. Extended processing statements can be applied to a source document or a result object and can be applied by the search server to other result objects associated thereto.

The upper right circle corresponds to acquirable knowledge from performing meta searches e.g. searches by way of other search engines. As with the known knowledge intersection of the acquirable knowledge circle circle with the query circle corresponds to relevant search results from this particular search domain. Similarly the lower right circles corresponds to acquirable knowledge from piggy backing onto private search engines provided by individual web sites such as those search engines provided by universities government web sites or the like. In the piggy back configuration the invention may for example visit a private or local search page for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology execute a search thereon and provide filtered search results to the user of the client .

The lower left circle corresponds to search result objects stored by the search server and made publicly available by the users generating the results. These publicly accessible results can be included when performing the user s search and contribute to the current user s search. One advantage of saving previous search result objects for later sharing is that as illustrated there can be a portion of saved search data that is no longer available to other search techniques. Knowledge gaps are common as a result of rapid changes in online data content. In one embodiment keys are assigned to user search result objects where the keys operate as an identifier of the type of data stored within the result object. Keys can be thought of as a form of a Dewey Decimal system for result objects. 

After logging in the user s connection device is sensed for communications characteristics such as display characteristics or audio characteristics and output formats are adjusted accordingly.

After logging in the user s connection device is sensed for display characteristics and viewing formats are adjusted accordingly. Unless overridden or supplemented by a user preference the search server automatically tailors output according to a user s connecting device characteristics and or other user preferences or characteristics such as psychometrics associated with the user which may require overriding or supplementing view preferences discussed below. Thus a user using a computer having a large browser window can be presented with results differently than will a mobile device.

Mobile devices may access the Internet with a restricted browsing environment such as a microbrowser tailored for small data files limited memory and low bandwidth requirements typical of most wireless networks. Consequently rich source document content is reduced e.g. graphics are converted to low resolution or discarded. And data for the mobile device is converted into a format suitable for receipt by the mobile device. For example currently WAP enabled devices expect data to be encoded in WML or equivalent which is an XML variant specifically devised for small screens and one hand navigation without a keyboard. WML output may include WMLScript a JavaScript like language tailored to a WAP enabled device s restrictive computing environment. Thus as needed data whether previously encoded in HTML XML or other data format is converted into WML or other needed format for receipt by a mobile device.

After logging in a test is then performed to determine whether the connecting user is a new user. If not new a second test is performed to determine whether to load previously used search results. If so then search preferences data types e.g. dates names historical events geography job skills etc. and viewing preferences discussed below are loaded for the user. In one embodiment the user is prompted with a list indicating previously saved search sessions that may be retrieved. If the user does not desire loading previous searches then processing continues with setting search preferences.

If the user is a new user the search server creates a new record for the user with name password preference option fields unset and the user selects a name and password. A user s profile is stored in a database associated with the search server. In one embodiment different search servers maintain their own user databases but cross check with each other to verify if an apparently new user is known to another search server if so then the user s preferences can either be used remotely or copied locally and synchronized with the other search server. In one embodiment multiple search servers share common perhaps virtual permanent storage.

The user may now choose to set a variety of options to control searching distillation abstracting and viewing of search results. Options are separated herein into three general categories search preferences affecting the search process data type preference controlling distillation of search results into result objects and view preferences controlling display of data captured within a result object. In one embodiment search options are internally represented by a search server as a series of constraint rules that are solved to determine whether a candidate source document meets all user options.

Another option is a Results Sorted option. This option controls whether to sort results by apparent title or document source. The phrase apparent title is used as some sources such as web pages embed control tags e.g. HTML statements indicating a page s title. Other data sources such as plain text files word processing files spreadsheets databases etc. do not have associated tags indicating a title. In one embodiment for text files the first few words in the file are used as a title. In other file formats a viewer filter is applied in effort to determine a title. For example in the word processing file example the file may contain an embedded document properties object indicating a title or the first few words of the file can be used as the title. If no possible title can be determined the source document s network location e.g. its URL in an Internet context can be used as a title.

Another option is a Results Highlighted option. This option determines whether to highlight the context within search results. In one embodiment highlighting means to bold face or otherwise accentuate for example with auditory feedback search terms within a source document.

It will be appreciated that these requirements can also be used to determining the user s initial list of search results. That is after entering a search a candidate list of search results is determined in accord with traditional searching methods. Without displaying the search results to the user the search server instead prepares distilled result objects for each candidate result and applies the search criteria to the distilled data and removes source documents not containing the search criteria in the distilled data. Thus if the user seeks a certain type of document having identifiable language constructions and lexical structure such as legal documents the search server can pare the initial search results to remove documents failing to have appropriate structure.

In one embodiment the distilled object is compartmentalized. For example if constructed as an XML object the result object is defined with tags or equivalent structural definitions for other data formats are defined containing matching source document text for each data type option. For example a Dates Times constraint can be selected causing the user to be presented with options for setting valid date and time values ranges and formats e.g. month day year day month year month year etc. for data in the distilled result object. After distilling a document source the result object then contains an XML tag pairing such as containing matching source document data meeting the data type criteria.

Other options include Abstracts options which allow setting requirements for sentence position density word frequency sub phrase parsing etc. characteristics for data to be included in the distilled data. Source document data meeting these requirements are included in the result object within an appropriately labeled tag pairing. Abstracts can also be defined with respect to one or more of the data types discussed herein such as key points focus words author s summary or other data of interest to the user.

The Key Points option causes a candidate source document to be analyzed to identify key sentences. Key sentences can be determined for example by word matching sub phrase parsing special part of speech parsing use of action words word frequency counting and based on other lexical analysis techniques known in the art. Key sentences may comprise entire sentences portions thereof or combinations with one or more other sentences. For example a key sentence may be a phrase or a slug of text having no structured connotation. It will be appreciated that other known techniques for identifying key sentences may be used.

The Focus Words option causes a candidate source document to be analyzed to identify focus words. As discussed in patent application Ser. No. 09 336 020 which is incorporated herein by reference focus words are related terms and phrases for a particular word or phrase where the related terms are concepts or terms that are narrower roughly equivalent or broader in scope than words in a source document. Focus words can be determined by testing for part of speech capitalization word frequency checking and presence in various word dictionaries such as Names personal corporate geographic events holidays and the like. Focus words determination can also be applied to the user s search query to aid in formulating a query of proper scope.

Another option is an Emphasis Items option. When a source document is analyzed all structural elements such as tag pairings or other devices used to denote document structure are identified and their contents stored and associated thereto. Thus if a source document contains My Title the text My Title is stored and associated as being part of the TITLE tags. Selection of this option causes a supplemental user interface not shown to be presented where the user may selectively elect to view according to user view preferences particular structural elements such as the TITLE tag data and their associated data.

View options generally correspond to the distillation data types discussed above and operate under similar principles. View options allow a user to sort order of appearance determine what to emphasize e.g. Emphasis Items option set minimum and maximum viewable values for example set a limit to the total number of dates shown show only the N most often occurring dates etc. for data within the result object. Note that one need not set a data type option in order to use a corresponding view option. For example once can omit date range restrictions on distillation yet require them to control display.

In one embodiment a user may select a Learn from Sample button to visually see the effect of selected data types and viewing options. Learn from sample allows a search server to provide a visual tutorial as to the effect of options available to the user and allow the user to compose complex searches based on perceived results.

In a further embodiment as discussed above with respect to executable objects such JavaBeans or ActiveX controls may be used to refine or control distillation of search results. If this embodiment a user may set a viewing preference not illustrated indicating such executable objects are to be used in the distillation process.

Continuing again with once the user has set or accepted default values for search preferences data types and setting viewing preferences the user then submits search criteria to be searched for within available search domains e.g. . In one embodiment search criteria can be forcibly included or excluded through use of or equivalent causing search results to correspondingly include or not include criteria so designated. In one embodiment the search server applies date time sensitive analysis to adjust the weighting of results priority unless results are ordered alphabetized . For example a search term of hearts in February would rank higher valentine s day results.

In another embodiment a user may enter a natural language query or non speech query such as a search by example query for graphics image data. That is exemplar graphics data can be dragged and dropped into a search box and the search server locates image files and performs image analysis e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG imaging techniques to identify results similar to the exemplar.

In one embodiment a simplified preference setting interface not shown is presented to a user where the simplified interface allows the user to select from several default search and distillation categories where selection causes various of the above described options to be set automatically for the user. For example one category might be Educator another Pharmacist or another category might be Human Resources. Alternatively psychometric measures for example an adjective check list may be used to set these default options. In each case the four main types of user preferences would be set to default values deemed appropriate for each search category. In this embodiment the user may select and advanced options page to display and adjust the default values.

After entering the search criteria the search server performs a typical search through known domains resulting in a list of source documents satisfying designated search criteria. The user can then select a listed source document causing it by default to be opened in a separate browser window. Use of the separate window allows maintaining the contents of the search results window. Or the user selects a distillation icon which by default is displayed adjacent a source document link where selection causes distillation of the associated search result link according to the user s set preferences .

Assuming election to distill a source document the search server then extracts see the clicked on source document according to the data types rules ranges and view formats designated in the user s options .

Also illustrated are knowledge representation symbols or tokens . In one embodiment these symbols have associated user perceptible characteristics such as shape or opacity which can be used to indicate a result s topic area concept document type and apparent relevance to the search criteria hereafter generally topic area .

For example one symbol may represent document age where a hollow outline indicates an old source document while a solid symbol means a new or current source document. Or a symbol may represent the number of words in a source document or number of pages where a solid portion of a symbol indicates relative length of the source document. Or a symbol may be associated verb activity within a source document so that if a document is lexically analyzed such as through analysis of verb structures and determined to be active then a solid portion of the symbol is used to indicate such activity perhaps as a ratio relative to the source document s size .

In one embodiment representation symbols are associated with the searcher s search terms thus allowing a searcher to evaluate apparent relevance of a search result to a particular topic area based on user perceptible characteristics e.g. symbol shape opacity sound etc. of the representation symbols . In one embodiment a user may also create edit or assign representation symbols to results thus categorizing results as belonging to certain result type categories e.g. identifying source documents concerning religion politics money legal medical etc.

A first operation is to identify all source tags e.g. HTML XML etc. within a candidate source document and save the content values of the tags into variables determined according to the user s options . For example if the user sets an option to receive title information then if a title is identified within the source document then the identified title is placed within appropriate e.g. XML tags recall that the result object is by default encoded as an XML object .

Regular expression pattern matching rules e.g. akin to the Unix grep command are applied to isolate data elements such as dates part numbers etc. of interest to the user. After isolating these data elements for text based source documents the source document is reduced into five data levels corresponding to 1 identifying document paragraphs 2 identifying paragraph sentences 3 identifying sentence phrases 4 identifying phrase sub phrases and 5 identifying sub phrase focus words .

Paragraphs are identified through identification of hard return characters e.g. ASCII characters 10 13 word processing end of line characters etc. manual line breaks blank lines between blocks of text and the like. If the source document structured document such as HTML DHTML JavaScript XML WML etc. the source document is also processed for indications of paragraph breaks based on punctuation related tags. For example in an HTML type of source document the paragraph tags or use of a double break tag sequence are treated as defining paragraphs.

Sentences can be identified by isolating the use of punctuation e.g. periods question mark exclamation point etc. to locate ends of sentences. In addition punctuation usage is compared to exemplars so as to recognize certain types of sentence constructions such as the salutation Dr . Identified sentences or slugs of connected text since not all source documents such as HTML type sources follow conventional grammatical structures can be identified by isolating use of punctuation e.g. periods question mark exclamation point etc. to isolate ends of sentences. As with paragraph detection use punctuation is compared with exemplars. If the source document structured document such as HTML etc. the source document is processed for a combination of punctuation in combination with sentence ending structure such as single or double line spacing or punctuation tags such as a break tag .

Phrases can be identified based on punctuation patterns. In one embodiment phrases are identified as comma delimited portions of identified sentences. Alternatively lexical analysis tools can be applied to parse the grammatical structure of the source document so as to identify phrases therein.

Sub phrase focus words can be identified by parsing phrases into sub phrases by comparing identified phrases to a lookup table containing conjugation slugs. See also parent application Ser. No. 09 336 020 for focus word extraction techniques. For example a partial lookup table might contain a list the following English conjugation phrases 

In one embodiment the lookup take is implemented as a programming array containing strings where each array entry contains a conjugation slug.

If the search server encounters a conjugation slug the portion of the phrase preceding the conjugation slug is labeled and the sub phrase and identified conjugation slug text is removed from the source document text being inspected and processing continues with the remaining text to identify other conjugation slugs and associated sub phrases. In one embodiment labeling means to store the nth identified sub phrase in an array where new entries are entered for each such phrase. It will be appreciated that other data structures may be used to store identified sub phrases.

After identifying the sub phrases the search server submits them to a core extraction process that uses part of speech dictionaries known grammatical structures dictionaries of controlled vocabularies specific to a domain e.g. law medicine proper names historical events etc. capitalization weighting rules phrase construction rules and de duplication algorithms to identify focus words from the identified sub phrases. In such fashion words not appearing to have significance e.g. not being found in dictionaries or appearing lexically significant through capitalization or other analysis rules are ignored. Remaining words are deemed focus words for a source document that convey a distilled essence of the source document.

The source document is also processed to generate an abstract based on identifying paragraphs and key slugs of text based on punctuation patterns and using position weighting length limiting and frequency weighting to identify key sentences in the source document from which to compose an overview abstract of the source document. In addition the length of the abstract is adjusted according to the sensed display characteristics of the user s connection device. For example if it is known that the user is using a mobile device then a small abstract will be generated.

The source document is also processed to generate key points. In one embodiment the search server inspects each sentence and phrase for patterns of use between verbs within the sentences and phrases. To do so the server first uses known part of speech parsers e.g. the Brill POS Tagger by the Department of Computer and Information Science University of Pennsylvania and the Spoken Language Systems Group Laboratory for Computer Science MIT to isolate verbs within a sentence or phrase. Generally some source document words are recognized immediately as nouns verbs etc. while other words require inspection of prefixes suffixes infixes adjacent word occurrence and other syntactic analysis to identify appropriate parts of speech.

Identified verbs are compared to a hierarchy of verb sequences which are groupings of verbs arranged in process order for example see pickup sniff taste chew swallow smile. The verb sequences are ranked by level of action where state of being verbs such as are and is may be ranked near or at the top of the hierarchy followed by verbs sequences of action towards then verbs sequences of association then verb sequences of communication from etc. The hierarchy of verbs the sort order and the arrangement of the verb sequences can vary based on context associated nouns . The verb sequences may be implemented as sorted arrays lookup tables or Java vectors or other structured format allowing for indicating sequences. For further information regarding verb sequences see Action Words Directory published by VORT Corporation 1979 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. 

Thus for example the server may parse the user s search criteria or a history of the user s or associated users search criteria assume a words based search and compare the search criteria words to a controlled vocabulary. In one embodiment the controlled vocabulary are the identified focus words discussed above and they are used to associate nouns to the search criteria. In an alternate embodiment an array or hierarchy of context related subject based nouns are compared and associated.

If associated nouns convey no action e.g. they are not associated with one or more verb sequences then only state of being verbs are used in the key point filtering extraction process. But if the nouns convey action e.g. they are associated with one or more verb sequences then the verbs in the controlled vocabulary associated with those nouns are used in the key point filtering process. The key point filtering process involves finding which subsets of text e.g. sentences or phrases of the distilled result object contain which of these verbs or verb sequences and patterns to select and rank those subsets of text as key points. Further a user may set preferences not shown for assigning a priority to verb sequences action levels the priority may then be used as part of a calculation to determine which verb and verb sequences are to be applied in the key point filtering process.

Key points can also be generated by matching words from the user s search criteria to the same words in the source document. As a result matched in context key points are created. For example if the user s search criteria is venture capital matched in context key points from a source document comprise 

In one embodiment a user can set as a user preference how many search server ranks each sentence or phrase against the verb hierarchy and cuts off the number of key points that qualify based on the selected user preference. The search server can also uses this number of key points metric to determine the average number of key sentences should be included in an abstract.

After the extraction process the search server has all components e.g. tag values regular expression matches abstract key points focus words and other data types of interest needed to construct a distilled version e.g. result object for a source document. In one embodiment the user is provided with viewing preferences to set a numerical and or relative position for the contents of the distilled source document. For example the user can assign a first second third position for desired data and or the user may set relative preferences such that the abstract is above extracted dates from regular expression matching but below key points. Fixed and relative position preferences define a constraint system that can be dynamically solved and cause data to be displayed to a user s connecting device.

In one embodiment identified focus words are also indexed within a database of focus words maintained by the search server for storing identified focus words arising from previous searches by the current and other different searchers. In such fashion processing required to identify focus for one user s search may be re used in other searches by making the results available to other searchers. In addition such search retention makes available content that may otherwise become unavailable due to the original source document being taken offline from the network.

As discussed above the illustrated information is stored within a result object that has been created in real time for a particular document source. It is assumed that such real time distillation is responsive to clicking on an icon or other trigger associated with search results. Since distillation is in real time and can be based on results obtained from a conventional search rather than the searching techniques disclosed herein the distillation process can therefore be added to any existing search engine or other application program having access to discrete bodies of source data.

Based on the user s device characteristics e.g. regular browser window on a computing device restricted browser environment within a mobile device the server presents a result object s contents the distilled data in an appropriate data format and language e.g. HTML WML XML to match both the parameters of the user s device and the user s selected viewing options.

Illustrated for example are a title that was determined for a selected result the URL for the source documents being summarized and various result regions containing identified data within the source document pursuant to selected search and view preferences.

In particular the illustrated results provide focus words which may be selected to adjust the search.

A user may perform context zooming wherein a user is presented with a data type and obtains a focused entry into the source document by selecting the distilled data type. The distillation process automatically enables context zooming when distilled data is displayed . A distilled data type can be for example a key point an abstract a matched in context key point or focus word. In one exemplary embodiment the distillation process automatically creates key points or other data types that index in real time into a portion of the source document that surrounds the key point and displays that portion of the source document. An index may include a hyperlink to the surrounding text of the source document where the amount of surrounding text can be set in by the user s preferences which may be represented by an icon or text for example to zoom into the surrounding text. The amount of surrounding text can be determined by the user such as through user preferences or determined by the server in accordance with the user s device characteristics.

Context zooming gives users quick access to the full surrounding text of a key point or selected data type from a corresponding source document without having to hear or view the full text of the source document. Consequently users can bypass text that may otherwise be irrelevant or may scroll to other portions of the text from the surrounding text. For example users of small limited screen devices can zoom in on a portion of the source document where the portion is appropriate for the particular device. In this manner the user is able to view relevant portions of the source document without having to scroll through the entire document to find relevant text and without having to be constrained by the size of the source document. Furthermore context zooming gives a user the advantage of access to a specific portion of a document through a given distilled data type e.g. a key point a matched in context key point a site link without loss of context or content since the user is able to select the distilled data type for access to more detailed information.

In one example a user is presented with three matched in context key points distilled from a source document As search results are distilled indicating a portion of the distillation process prior to displaying distilled data each search result can be displayed showing distilled data and can be further processed to be automatically and dynamically grouped so as to be represented by a mid menu comprising a list of menu options. A dynamically generated mid Menu creates a stepping stone that allows a user to analyze the distilled data in summary form. Amongst other applications mid menus are useful for limited screen displays such as cellular telephones. One of the advantages of mid menus is that they provide users with brief and quick substantive access to a source document without having to review the full text of the source document and without having to review all the distilled data. Substantive access provides the user with more than mere data descriptions and titles. Substantive access provides the user with information related to a given source document where the information is processed and categorized.

Each menu option on a mid menu may comprise a result category and a corresponding content metric. A result category represents a category of data that has been analyzed and comprises results for the particular category of data. A content metric represents a qualitative or quantitative value of the particular category to give the user substantive access to a search result where a quantitative measure may comprise for example the number of appearances for a given result category or the length of text and a qualitative measure may comprise for example a relative precision rating of a data type. The type of content metric that is displayed depends upon the nature of the given result category. Content metric whether a qualitative or a quantitative measure can be represented as a number an icon or symbol.

When a result category and corresponding content metric is displayed to the user on the mid menu the user may select the menu option . Selecting the menu option displays the results associated with the result category .

A result category may comprise a data type that represents a source document that is distilled in accordance with a data type constraint associated with the data type. For instance a key point represents distilled data in accordance with a key sentence which may be an entire sentence a portion thereof or combination with another or other sentences a focus word represents distilled data in accordance with a conceptually related word and site link represents distilled data in accordance with a URL Uniform Resource Locator . For example 

Options 1 7 are data types. For instance Key Points represents key sentences which may comprise an entire sentence portions thereof or combinations with other sentences that are distilled from the given search result. The numbers in parenthesis represent the content metric or the value of the corresponding Key Point. In the example above the content metrics comprise a quantitative measure namely content density which tells a user that there are 8 Key Points 6 Matched in Context key points 14 Focus Words 4 Site Links and 163 words in the Full Text of the document. In one embodiment Personal Names and Patent Issues represent names and terms respectively found in a lookup table where a corresponding content metric represents the number of occurrences of personal names in the given source document. In another embodiment discussed below Personal Names and Patent Issues can be user defined. 

Alternatively or conjunctively a content metric can represent a qualitative measure such as relevancy or precision which can be determined by a standard computation linguistic algorithm for precision frequency and recall. For example a result category can be rated for its relative precision to the user s search criteria where each of the Key Points is rated and the 6 Key Points are averaged to determine a precision rating for a result category.

Result categories may additionally comprise user defined types. As illustrated by the following example when a user defines search related preferences the user may also enter data for user defined types such as SiteSnaps Personal Names and Patent Issues sections.

User defined types refer to any type of data grouping that is useful to the user but which does not fall into the category of a data type. For example a user can create a category called SiteSnaps and define it so that it finds a full range of data types or it finds data types listed by the user. The user can then define its corresponding content metric so that it represents the number of different data types that are returned by a given search as opposed to how many data types are selected by the user in the user s preferences .

 Personal Names rather than being a data type can be defined by the user to search for a name or names entered by the user such that the mid menu determines how many occurrences of the name or names occur within all data types selected by the user. Similarly a Patent Issues category can be created to search for a term or terms entered by the user where the term is or terms are related to patent issues for example and the mid menu displays the number of occurrences of the term or terms in the data types selected by the user. These user defined types are exemplary are not exclusive and may encompass many other types not discussed herein.

A menu option may also comprise a predefined menu option as shown by options 8 and 9 and 6 and 7 respectively on the sample menus above which represent predefined menu options for navigating the menu.

Furthermore mid menus can be based on user preferences where a user can determine the menu options that are displayed on the mid menu in one example or a server can automatically determine the mid menu options based on user preferences. When the mid menu is dynamically and automatically generated those menu options are automatically displayed.

If the user scrolls to and or selects the third matched in context key point Venture Capital Information Sources learn from our listing of venture capital information sources including libraries . . . using a particular device s navigation methods e.g. voice or keypad the user would link to the surrounding text of the key points for example 

It will also be appreciated that most or all of the functionality discussed above for the search server can be entirely incorporated into the client device or processing shared according to an appropriate handshaking protocol . In one embodiment the handshaking protocol allows the client to negotiate with the search server for determining which tasks the client will or is willing to perform. In an alternate embodiment the client directly accesses a data source or monitors an ongoing data stream e.g. a music data information ticker etc. and performs the distillation process on the monitored data.

Program modules include procedures functions programs components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The modules may be incorporated into single and multi processor computing systems as well as hand held devices and controllable consumer devices e.g. mobile devices set top boxes Internet appliances etc. . It is understood that modules may be implemented on a single computing device or processed over a distributed network environment where modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing portions invention include a computing device having system bus for coupling various components within the computing device. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures such as PCI AGP VESA Microchannel ISA and EISA etc. Typically attached to the bus are processors such as Intel DEC Alpha PowerPC programmable gate arrays etc. a memory e.g. RAM ROM PROM EEPROM etc. storage devices a video interface and input output interface ports . The storage systems and associated computer readable media provide storage of data and executable instructions for the computing device . Storage options include hard drives floppy disks optical storage magnetic cassettes tapes flash memory cards memory sticks digital video disks and the like and may be connected to the bus by way of an interface .

Processors for the client and search server may be directed according to programming instructions encoded within nonvolatile memory ROM EPROM E EPROM F PGA etc. application specific integrated circuits ASICs or as part of the instructions for an operating system e.g. the Microsoft Windows CE Palm Computing or other operating system may be extended to support the above described search and distillation processes .

Computing device is expected to operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computing devices through a network interface modem or other communication pathway. Computing devices may be interconnected by way of a network such as a local intranet or the Internet. Thus with respect to the illustrated embodiments assuming computing device is a client seeking to perform a search then remote devices may be a search server and another searcher .

It will be appreciated that remote computing devices may be configured like computing device and therefore include many or all of the elements discussed for computing device . It should also be appreciated that computing devices may be embodied within a single device or separate communicatively coupled components and include routers bridges peer devices web servers and application programs utilizing network application protocols such as HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP Gopher Wide Area Information Server WAIS and the like.

Having described and illustrated the principles of the invention with reference to illustrated embodiments it will be recognized that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles.

And even though the foregoing discussion has focused on particular embodiments it is understood that other configurations are contemplated. In particular even though expressions such as in one embodiment in another embodiment and the like are used herein these phrases are meant to generally reference embodiment possibilities and are not intended to limit the invention to particular embodiment configurations.

As used herein these terms may reference the same or different embodiments and unless expressly indicated otherwise are combinable into other embodiments. Consequently in view of the wide variety of permutations to the above described embodiments the detailed description is intended to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. What is claimed as the invention therefore is all such modifications as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

