---

title: System and method for searching, formulating, distributing and monitoring usage of predefined internet search queries
abstract: A user interface aids in creation of customized pre-defined queries that can be used for identifying particular search results relevant to a topic. Provision can be made to allow express inclusion or exclusion of certain results. Metrics relating to how much the pre-defined query focuses the search can be provided. A pre-defined query can be referenced by a URL, which can be distributed or referenced in content available in any number of locations. When results of the pre-defined search change, a contact associated with the search query can be notified. When a URL is activated, a redirect to the search engine with the customized query can occur, and the contact associated with the query can be notified of the usage of the pre-defined query. Metrics concerning sources of query usage can be produced, based on data gathered while serving the pre-defined query requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07831609&OS=07831609&RS=07831609
owner: Vizibility Inc.
number: 07831609
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100607
---
This application claims priority from and incorporates U.S. provisional application No. 61 236 630 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on Aug. 25 2009 and from U.S. provisional application No. 61 348 558 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on May 26 2010 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes herein.

Aspects disclosed herein relate to the information searching and more particularly to systems and methods for enhancing internet searches.

Internet users are increasingly finding navigating document collections to be difficult because of the increasing size of such collections. Likewise companies individuals and other organizations wishing to be found by Internet users face growing challenges with maintaining their online visibility. For example it is estimated that the World Wide Web on the Internet includes more than 11 billion pages in the publicly indexable Web across more than 110 million web sites. Consequently finding desired information in such a large collection unless the identity location or characteristics of a specific document or search target are well known can be much like looking for a needle in a haystack. The World Wide Web is a loosely interlinked collection of documents mostly text and images located on servers distributed over the Internet. Generally speaking each document has an address or Uniform Resource Locator URL in the exemplary form http www.server.net directory file.html . In that notation the http specifies the protocol by which the document is to be delivered in this case the HyperText Transport Protocol. The www.server.net specifies the name of a computer or server on which the document resides directory refers to a directory or folder on the server in which the document resides and file.html specifies the name of the file. URLs can be extremely long complex strings of machine readable code.

Most documents on the Web are in HTML HyperText Markup Language format which allows for formatting to be applied to the document external content such as images and other multimedia data types to be introduced within the document and hotlinks or links to other documents to be placed within the document among other things. Hotlinking allows a user to navigate between documents on the Web simply by selecting an item of interest within a page. For example a Web page about reprographic technology might have a hotlink to the Xerox corporate web site. By selecting the hotlink often by clicking a marked word image or area with a pointing device such as a mouse the user s Web browser is instructed to follow the hotlink usually via a URL frequently invisible to the user associated with the hotlink and read a different document. A user cannot be expected to know or remember a URL for each and every document on the Internet or even URLs for those documents in a smaller collection of preferred documents.

Accordingly navigation assistance is not only helpful but important for practical internet usage. Such navigation assistance is typically providing via an Internet based search engine such as Google Microsoft s Bing Yahoo or the like. Accordingly when an Internet user desires to find information about a company individual or organization the Internet user will frequently turn to a search engine to locate the information. A search engine serves as an index into the content stored on the Internet.

 Google www.google.com is an example of a search engine. It operates in a similar manner to traditional keyword based search engines in that a search begins by the user s entry of one or more search terms used in a pattern matching analysis of documents on the Web. It differs from traditional keyword based search engines in that search results are ranked based on a metric of page importance which differs from the number of occurrences of the desired search terms and simple variations upon that theme . Regardless of the proprietary nature of any given search engines approach Internet users searching for companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics i.e. name industry etc. often receive search results that are inaccurate or relate to entities other than the intended search target. For example a search for John Smith with the intention of obtaining information about a particular person by that name will return many results about different John Smith s such that the desired John Smith may not have any relevant results. In these instances the Internet user may build more complex search queries to generate more relevant results which is only possible if the Internet user possesses information that can be used as a basis for such queries.

It is understood and well documented that it is desirable for companies individuals and organizations to appear early in search results for personal financial and other reasons. Prominence in search results for a given term or terms in search engines is a form of third party validation at least in that Internet users place a higher value on entries in top search results because of their perceived relevance success and size. Therefore viewership of search results or click throughs for search results on subsequent results pages declines precipitously.

Search Engine Optimization SEO has emerged as a category of services available to operators of web sites. SEO provides for deliberately engineering prominent placement in search results by tailoring web sites to the algorithms employed by a given search engine. In addition to SEO paid search may be utilized to display an advertisement on the top pages of search results for a given search term s . SEO paid search and other optimization strategies are typically only engaged by organizations due to their complexity and cost. Individuals have fewer options to achieve optimal placement in search results.

Google Profiles is one example of a mechanism individuals can utilize to offer information specific to themselves. Google Profiles does not influence search results however and individuals with even slightly common names often find themselves in a long list with others eliminating the value of the feature. SEO paid search Google Profiles and other similar optimization strategies are reactive in that they only influence but do not control what is returned in search results. These strategies are necessary because the natural search behavior of Internet users favors implementation of less sophisticated search queries or the Internet user simply does not possess the information necessary to build a complex search query that will allow the return of appropriately focused results. When companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics engage like optimization strategies however the differentiation gained from them diminishes and the value declines for them and Internet users alike.

Aspects disclosed herein provide that an entity e.g. companies individuals or organizations can create in advance a specific search query a PreSearch Query that yields search results that are accurate or accurate within an acceptable range here accurate can include that the results returned are relevant to the topic for which the entity has created the query and that those relevant results are not obscured by irrelevant results. In one preferred aspect the PreSearch Query can be embodied in a short easy to remember URL saved distributed placed on web pages such as including social networking homepages and monitored for changes in search results and usage.

Unlike reactive optimization strategies that seek to influence the way results are developed and displayed after a search is started by a user a PreSearch Query is formed proactively in that the search is done in advance such as by a target of the search. An Internet user need only enter or cause to be entered the PreSearch Query into the search engine of their choice which can be done by clicking on a URL containing the search query or a hotlink to it through a redirected short URL. In the case of the latter a redirected PreSearch Query can be monitored for usage providing information concerning usage of the PreSearch Query such as who is using the query and when both to the entity that created the query and to the system causing the redirection.

More particularly depicts an internet e.g. the Internet through which a variety of components described below may communicate with each other. One functional grouping of components is search query provider .

Search query provider can be used by an entity e.g. a person to obtain a definition of a search query. A link or referenced to the query definition can be distributed to third parties for use in obtaining information about a particular subject e.g. the person who created the pre defined query an organization object place concept product service event or the like . Because the query is defined prior to the time that it is used typically by an entity other than an entity that is intended to use the query to obtain the information such a search query is called a pre search query herein.

In other words the query is defined by a process performed prior to distribution of the query or references to the query for use in searching. Typically the query is defined with a view to tailoring the results that are returned from the query to a desired subject as will be described below. For example the query can be formed during a process performed in a machine which may interact with a person. In one example the process can be performed to define a query that will return search results about a selected person and in such a case the person intended to be the subject of the query may perform the process. In another example if the query is intended to be for a product then a marketing employee of a company producing or selling the product may initiate or engage in the query formation process for that product. To be clear a pre search query is not confined to being used only for people. Therefore creation of a pre search query for a person as in the principal examples herein is for ease and clarity of explanation and not by way of limitation.

Returning to search query provider an example composition of search query provider includes a search engine interface which interfaces with one or more search engines a search engine is depicted such as through respective Application Programming Interfaces APIs provided by the search engines an API for search engine is depicted . Search query provider also has a store of scripts e.g. javascripts and UI templates which as will be described below are for use in configuring a UI located at a browser which is used in this example for creating a pre search query such scripts also can be run on other devices such as on server resources . An account creation server also is provided for interfacing with UI and includes information gathering functionality that can be implemented through UI .

A link server is provided to accept requests for a resource identified by a link e.g. a link made available on a web resource which can be selected or otherwise activated by a browser which is accessing web resource . An analytics engine communicated with link server and operates to obtain and analyze information available from such linking activities. In a particular example a pre search query can be referenced by link such that when link is activated e.g. by clicking on a visual depiction of the link in a page served by web resource to browser information about browser and a device on which it is running can be obtained.

As will be described further below various constituent elements of search query provider communicate with each other in order to perform query definition steps delineated in the examples that follow. For example account creation server can store profile information in profile storage profiles . Also account creation server can update link information on link server e.g. to publish a new link that can be used or otherwise distributed . Similarly account creation server may communicate with search engine interface for providing trial queries to be submitted to search engine and to receive results returned responsive to those queries.

Browsers and may be implemented using Internet browsers such as Internet Explorer Firefox Opera Safari or browsers provided on mobile phones smart phones PDAs or other Internet connected appliances.

Automated or shared login services such as those provided by Facebook OpenID Google or Yahoo Inc. can be used in the method depicted in such as for obtaining contact information as well as for account creation. Additionally membership in social networking sites such as LinkedIn Facebook and others may be solicited. Information gathered for creating an account can include a first name a last name email address URL for public profile with employment history i.e. LinkedIn Facebook MySpace etc. and a desired password. As will be explained such information can be queried in a structured format through a user interface can be gathered in an automated format from other services as well as combinations of automated services and manual entry. Application Programming Interfaces API may be provided by services such as social networking services which can ease gathering of information during account creation.

Now turning to account creation and information gathering can be implemented by obtaining contact information such as an e mail address a login identifier a password a telephone number or other identifying information. Other personal information can be queried including a full legal name variations of the name by which the person may be known hobbies activities clubs organizations and so on may be queried. Work information may also be the subject of a query . In some usage scenarios pre search queries may be used primarily in the context of business as opposed to usage for search about personal information and in such a context querying for work information may be prioritized over non work personal information. Work information that may be queried can include present and past employment job titles examples of publications or products that are representative of work performed by the person and so on can be provided. also depicts that other information can be queried indicating that the examples of particular information that can be queried are exemplary rather than limiting.

As depicted in an example herein is developing a search query for a person. In the example is directed to developing a query for President Herbert Hoover. To demonstrate certain features only a last name is provided to the system such that potential confusion between J. Edgar Hoover and Herbert Hoover is caused and disambiguated.

The information queried as explained in can be used during pre search query formation. Constituent steps of information gathering can be performed as necessary. For example in some cases a name and a present employer and a past employer can be queried first and in some implementations even before an account is created. This approach is explained in more detail with respect to which depict elements of an interface that can be provided for pre search query definition.

Multiple search engines can be selected and preferably a pre search query can be determined for each may be the same query if for example the results returned for the query are acceptable for all selected search engines . The search engine selection preferably is made from a group consisting of the leading Internet search engines including Google Bing Ask Yahoo and the like. This group may differ by country such that a user can have a query formed for different search engines for use in different countries. The user also can be informed that although one search engine may be initially selected additional queries can be created later for other search engines.

The method depicted in continues with forming a trial search query based on information gathered e.g. in information gathering . The initial trial query can be formed based on the name of the user example of query formation for the user . In one example the trial query can be formed using only the user s name. The name can be used as a phrase exact search or as two or more separate words e.g. one word being a first name and a second word being a last name. In another example the initial trial query can include the name of the user and a current employer. In another example the initial trial query can include the name of the user a current employer and a past employer. Logical operators can be included to specify that results returned should have all search terms at least one search term or a specified subset of the search terms. Other search logic also can be employed if available through the search engine such as proximity between different search terms and so on. That query is submitted to the selected search engine and results are received .

The results are analyzed and in a decision point it is determined whether the results are acceptable or not. If the results are unacceptable then the trial query is modified . Subsequently the modified trial query can be re submitted to the search engine again. The modifying itself can include one or more iterations represented by feedback loop . As explained below these iterations can include querying and receiving input from a person about the search results such as a selection of one or more preferred results or results to be excluded. If the results are acceptable then the method of may continue with transaction completion .

If upon returning to determination if the number of results continues to be greater than the threshold then a still further element of information can be added. These information elements or terms can be obtained during information gathering . If no further information elements are available for use then the method can instead proceed with the remainder of the method depicted in described below.

If the number of results is not greater than the threshold then the results are presented on an interface e.g. provided for display in a browser such as in UI implemented using browser . Feedback on the results can be queried . In one example UI is provisioned for querying feedback as depicted in .

In particular depicts that portions of the received results depicts 4 results at a time other examples can depict fewer or more results can be presented. Each result result identified specifically can be associated with a radio button for indicating that the result is to be kept retained and a radio button for indicating that the result is to be removed . In one example by default button result kept can be selected such that results are retained unless button is selected.

The usage of buttons and for querying which results should be kept and which should be removed is one example of querying for feedback . In additional to querying about the handling of specific results information already gathered e.g. in can be displayed such as along a right hand portion of the interface. For example a name field an employer field an additional keywords field and an excluded word field can be provided on the interface. Name field can include sub fields for a first name last name and maiden name. The name s currently provided can be displayed while boxes descriptively labeled for categories of not yet provided information can be displayed. These fields depict an example of querying for further information. In one operating example after a user reviews the search results the user may detect one or more concepts in common for results that the user would like to retain or to remove. The user can then enter information related to those concepts in the fields depicted where information related to results to be results would be entered into the excluded word field .

Other example user interfaces can implement a ranking system in which the user or the system can rank desirability of retaining or excluding certain results. Such ranking information also can provide an input into the selection of tags or concepts for results to be retained or excluded. For example a concept related to a highly desirable search result even if it also appears in a result to be removed preferably would not be selected or suggested as a selection as a concept to exclude from the search.

A further example of feedback that can be queried from the user and provided through an interface such as that depicted in is whether certain results are favorites. A limit on a number of favorite search results can be provided such as 3 5 or 10 results. Indications of these favorites then can be stored and information about those favorites can be provided in conjunction with the URL that references the pre defined search query which is an output of some of the systems and methods described herein as described for example with respect to which depicts a user customizable selection of a short URL for referencing a query defined using the approaches described herein . For example summaries of the favorites can be provided as text or links to the search results also can be provided. Still further a page can be provided that includes a redirect link that allows selection of the pre defined query and also contains links to the favorite search results. For example a page referenced by the short URL can include a redirect to results returned by the pre defined query as well as links or other information about the favorites. The page can be incorporated to be rendered on other pages such as Facebook landing pages home pages LinkedIn pages and so on.

Upon receiving feedback and or further information the trial query can be revised and the method can return to submitting the query to the search engine again.

Other aspects of the user interface example of include that a button to keep all results and advance to the next results can be provided selection of which would advance the display to the next results and cause any results feedback entered to be submitted such as through an HTTP POST command . A button to indicate that the user is done reviewing results can be provided as well. If the user selects this button then feedback entered is submitted but then the query is thereafter revised and submitted without displaying the rest of the results from that trial query. A button to indicate that the user is ready to re submit the query also can be provided.

Such display can help a user to identify one or more additional elements of information that can be submitted through UI as described with respect to . The user also can manually enter one or more words to be excluded through UI . As described below the concepts displayed can be displayed as selectable links and if the concepts were identified for results to be removed the selection of any of the links can have the same effect as entering such concept words in the exclusionary window conversely if the concepts corresponded to results to be retained then concepts corresponding to selected links can have the same effect as entering such concept words in the additional keywords window .

Query modification can use concepts identified or other input to determine an exclusionary term to remove or avoid a concept presently appearing in the search results . Additionally or in substitution further terms can be added to emphasize a particular concept or result over others .

In some examples after determining concept words for one or more of inclusion and exclusion the user can cause the query as revised to be resubmitted such as by selecting refine search link . In other examples after determining such concept words query revision and submission can occur automatically such that the user does not need to explicitly indicate that the query should be resubmitted. In still other examples the concepts are not displayed to the user and one or more iterations query revision can occur automatically.

In most cases contemplated after submission results responsive to that query are received . A verification procedure can be implemented in which the results returned by the revised query are compared with the feedback previously received. By particular example a determination whether results identified for exclusion are absent from the returned results. If any of such results remain in the results returned then an option to exclude a top level domain TLD for each such result can be presented . If the TLD exclusion option is selected then the query can again be submitted . If the TLD exclusion option is not selected then analysis can be repeated. If the results to be excluded are now absent then a determination is made as to whether more results remain to be displayed if the results are paged such that more results were returned but not yet displayed then another page of results can be presented and the steps described above can be repeated for those results.

The above process thus discloses an approach to reviewing pages of results soliciting feedback on the results where one example of the feedback can include identifications of particular results to retain results to exclude or both. A further aspect disclosed with respect to is that concepts in results selected for removal or selection can be identified and presented to a user. The user can select from those concepts to narrow or broaden a search. An automated process also can select from such concepts and resubmit the query and then determine whether the results indicated to be retained and or removed have actually been retained or removed. In other implementations concept words or other search modifications can be selected by the user and then a verification process can be undertaken to determine whether the desired results have been retained and or removed.

Ultimately by manual changes automated changes or a combination thereof a query is finalized. Query finalization can be determined by a user indicating satisfaction or by virtue of determining that a goal of automated analysis was achieved. An opportunity to obtain queries for other search engines can be provided and if the results match those indicated as final for the first query then queries for those search engines also can be finalized such that results presentation and revision process does not need to be conducted for each additional search engine. If results do not match then a query revision process can occur according to any one or more of the examples disclosed above.

In the above description analysis and concept identification for inclusion or exclusion can use information available from each search engine. For example common elements from all accepted and or rejected entries can be identified. These common elements can be added to the query as the appropriate Boolean statements or in whatever form the search query must take as dictated by each specific target search engine . By further example if the search engine produces results based on weighted search terms the highest ranked desirable entries will also be analyzed for common elements and added to the search query as required by the search engine to indicate a higher level of importance.

In sum aspects that can be implemented in these examples include that a short custom URL preferably a permanent short URL is selected or otherwise determined to reference a particular query determined by a user. The user can distribute that URL to third parties or otherwise provide the URL through electronic means such as on web pages through SMS and so on. Thus the user maintains an association with the URL referencing the query he created. Requests made for the resource referenced by the URL i.e. the query definition can be redirected to the search engine so that live results are obtained from the search engine. Information about the sources of such requests and other statistics can be maintained and obtained concerning such requests. Alerts can be sent to the user associated with the URL when a request is made for it. Such alerts can be sent via email SMS or posted to feeds such as Twitter Facebook Wall LinkedIn status updates as examples.

In further summary URLs can be created for each of a number of search engines so that different characteristics capabilities and algorithms for each search engine can be used or accounted for in determining a query definition that returns desired results. A default search engine can be selected by the user a search engine can sponsor the default query position.

An example of a user interface element that can be used to describe changes in search results returned for a particular query is depicted in and . In it is depicted that the example information provided includes information about what set of results serves as the baseline from which the present comparison is conducted and in particular can include identifying information for a search engine generating the results and when the search was originally run as well as an indication of when the present report was run . The information about the search results comprises information about relative positioning of the results returned. For example result is in the number 3 spot and the arrow with the number 1 depicts by that result indicates that the result was in the number 4 spot previously and thus has been promoted one position by the search engine when comparing the present results to the baseline results . Result similarly is indicated as having been promoted 7 spots while result is 2 spots lower than it was in the baseline results . Result is new compared with baseline results as indicated by the New caption associated with it.

A floating window can be provide that allows a user to indicate whether the results returned are acceptable and provides interface elements that allow acceptance of the results which can cause the baseline set of search results to be updated or if the search is to be edited then the edit your search button can be selected and can take the user to an entry point in redefining the pre defined query. Ultimately the output of the pre search query definition process would produce another set of search results which can be used as the baseline results for further comparisons in the future.

It is to be understood that the concept of new results or results that are not included can depend on a number of results returned by a given search engine or under a given definition of a query. For example if fewer search results are returned then more results will be excluded. Similarly even though a search result may have been returned as the 80entry in a search that returns 100 results only until that result is within the first 64 results would it be considered present and then it would be considered a new result.

The information depicted in the user interface examples of can be provided in textual form such as in an SMS or e mail or other form of contact or can be provided on a web page referenced by a URL included in a message to a contact associated with a given query. Other parameters can be defined for a given user such as whether to show all results returned only those that changed are new or removed or only those that now appear on the first page or no longer appear on the first page but did before and so on. As such the change information provides a summary or more information about what a person sees when the pre search query is used.

Of course a complete and literal storing of the results need not be conducted. For example hashes can be created and stored. The content of the results may be stored uncompressed as presented compressed in derivative form or in some combination of these. The search can be rerun or results compared on a prescribed time interval or responsive to the occurrence of defined actions. The content of the results may be stored on a network accessible resource or on an electronic device of the user in some other location or in some combination of these.

And whenever a discrepancy between the approved search results and the current search results is discovered the user will be contacted . In the event of a change users may receive an email or other notification indicating that the search results from their finalized query have changed. Preferably which result or results have changed are new or are now absent are identified to the owner user who created the query. The method detects login by the user and the query results or changes thereto can be presented to the user user can login even if results have not changed . The method can then go to of allowing the user to adjust the query or otherwise providing information or direction to modify the query in order to adjust the search results returned.

For example when notifying the user at the user may be given information detailing specific changes in the results e.g. the e mail may identify new results changed results and absent results that used to appear . The email or other notification may provide a form or a link to a form allowing feedback on the changed results and the feedback can be feed into the processes disclosed for updating the query to reflect the results desired by the user once again to the extent possible or practical .

By further example users can be directed to log into the site via a link included in an SMS email posting to a social networking communication stream such as Facebook Twitter or another communication mechanism that can be selected by the user or any combination thereof. Also as the user is logged in the user can be given access to information such as a summary about access to his search query since a prior login or during a defined period of time. Such information also can be included in the notification.

In sum each time a user logs into the system the user preferably is enabled to re run the query definition methodologies to change any or all of their queries. The user may also be able to view all of their searches and the URLs for each search engine. The user may also be able to redownload standard button graphics via HTML so they may post on any site that resolves to their URL s . Additionally an interface where the user can view a dashboard graphs maps and other visual tools depicting quantity time location and or other relevant and available information of when the URL was used can be provided.

A further element that can be provide in a method according to is that the user can be notified periodically that search results have not changed no news is good news such notification also can include usage statistics and a login link.

The separate identification of these components does not imply that the components are implemented separately. Also the usage of certain programming techniques and paradigms are by way of example rather than limitation and a person of ordinary skill in the art can provide equivalent approaches in providing embodiments according to these disclosures.

Although illustrated embodiments of the present invention has been described it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Code or script for a button that can be included on a web site also can be provided to the user . The URL can be published to partnering web sites or properties. depicts that a user can be presented with an interface for querying such information. For example a field can be provided where the creator of the query can define a customized URL that will be used to refer to that query. Here field shows that the name of the user Herbert Hoover is entered. Thus the defined query will become accessible by accessing this name at the Vizibility.Com domain. Account creation features can be provided including fields for soliciting contact information and a password.

For example a user can provide login information to social networking sites and the URL can be inserted into the properties of the user at those sites see links in . Information about the search results returned are stored such as for use in the method of as explained there. depicts a user interface that can be provided for publishing the finalized query. A window with javascript code which can be copied can be provided see . Links can be made available. The links are to sites where the URL referencing the defined query can be placed. For example links to social networking sites can be provided. The remainder of the elements of the UI depicted are self descriptive to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

To the extent that the results returned for the current query differ from the baseline set of search results it can be determined that the search results returned responsive to the current query better reflect the intentions of the user defining the query than the baseline search results. A numerical value for the degree of improvement in the search results returned can be determined and the display depicted in can be updated.

Various approaches to determining a degree of improvement which can be expressed as a numerical value can be provided. For example a number of search results that are different can be counted and a percentage of results that are different of a total number of all the results returned can be used as numerical value . Weightings attributed to particular search results also can be provided. For example a particular search result may be identified by a user as being desirable or undesirable and the presence or absence of that particular search result can weight the numerical value more heavily than a search result not considered either desired or undesired. Still further an ordering of results can be considered in determining the numerical score and such an implementation can provide a higher score of the search results returned from the present query include desired results more prominently than undesired results. A similar approach can be applied to keywords or themes identified in search results identified as being desired or undesired. As would be understood the approach described here need not give any kind of numerical certainty but rather is for giving an easily digestible heuristic feedback mechanism to allows a user to see that continued work on query refinement is either yielding better results or not. In that context a variety of other implementations and approaches and other data that can be gathered about the search results returned can be used in providing the score. Still further other approaches for providing this feedback can be provided and by further example an increasingly definite or darker depiction of a person can be used to show increased improvement in search results. Such a display can be provided in conjunction with a numerical score as depicted in or in substitution for the numerical score. The method can iterate such that each time the query is revised the score or other indicia of search results improvement can be updated automatically.

Example computer system may include a host Central Processing Unit CPU which may be implemented as a semiconductor containing one or more distinct microprocessor units commonly called cores to indicate distinctness but yet integration on a common substrate. Modern processors typically comprise multiple cores such as 2 4 6 8 12 or more cores. Host CPU also can be implemented with a plurality of physically separate microprocessor units disposed in separate sockets. Host CPU communicates with a chipset which typically includes memory bus logic and other interfaces to other functionality such as an expansion bus for supporting I O such as network traffic to and from network interface s mass storage e.g. hard drives as well as peripherals such as those that can be provided for a user interface . Example of such peripherals include a keyboard serial I O a mouse voice recognition inputs touch screen inputs and so on.

Chipset also may support connection of a display and therefore may include graphics logic for rendering content to be displayed. Such graphics logic may use main memory as video memory or a separate video memory may be provided. Where system is used for implementing end user computers a display is more likely to be included. Frequently if system is functioning as a server a display would not be provided.

Of course the example system is provided by way of example and not limitation as to what kinds of devices may be used in implementing aspects disclosed herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art may adapt the disclosures presented herein for use with a variety of devices such as smartphones tablet computers laptops and so on which may be implemented using components that are more or less integrated than those depicted herein and which may include more functionality or fewer functions than what is depicted in this example.

