---

title: Systems and methods for improving an in-trail procedures request
abstract: Systems and methods for improving the reception and delivery of an In-Trail Procedures (ITP) altitude change request. An example system located on board a host aircraft includes a communication component, a display device and a processor unit that is in signal communication with the communication component and the display device. The processor unit presents a user interface on the display device. The user interface includes a plurality of fields for receiving In-Trail Procedures (ITP) altitude change request information. The processor sends the ITP altitude change request information received within the plurality of fields to an Air Traffic Control (ATC) facility via the communication component. An ITP unit having a display receives an altitude selection and presents ITP altitude change request information if the received altitude selection is determined to be valid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558668&OS=09558668&RS=09558668
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 09558668
owner_city: Morris Plains
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101026
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. DTFAWA 09 A 00001 with the FAA. The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

The Federal Aviation Administration FAA continues to require airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast ADS B applications to provide improved benefits to operators. One of the benefits of ADS B is the In Trail Procedures ITP . In addition to increasing flight crew awareness of the traffic around them ITP displays offer information for safely climbing or descending through altitudes.

Currently datalinking allows digital text messaging between controllers and pilots. ITP using Controller Pilot Datalink Communication CPDLC for datalinking requires the use of structured and defined message sets consisting of uplink and downlink messages. A major concern with using CPDLC in general is the amount of heads down time in the cockpit. It is critical that heads down time be mitigated. Part of this mitigation is a requirement that pilots be able to quickly find compose and send ITP requests to Air Traffic Control ATC . Also wrongly formulating the ITP datalink messages by for example not adhering to the standard message formats not providing all required ITP information or entering the wrong variables will result in communication errors and delays. Evidence of this problem is mentioned in a NASA study titled Enhanced Oceanic Operations Human In The Loop In Trail Procedure Validation Simulation Study NASA TP 2008 215313 .

Currently a touch panel display on an Electronic Flight Bag EFB display device is used for composing and sending ITP altitude change requests to ATC. The setting up and sending of an ITP clearance via an Electronic Flight Bag EFB device is cumbersome and because free text is used it can be prone to error.

The present invention provides systems and methods for improving the reception and delivery of an In Trail Procedures ITP altitude change request. An example system is located on board a host aircraft. The system includes a communication component a display device and a processor unit that is in signal communication with the communication component and the display device. The processor unit presents a user interface on the display device. The user interface includes a plurality of fields for receiving In Trail Procedures ITP altitude change request information. The processor sends the ITP altitude change request information received within the plurality of fields to an Air Traffic Control ATC facility via the communication component.

In one aspect of the invention the system includes an ITP unit having a display. The ITP unit receives an altitude selection and presents ITP altitude change request information if the received altitude selection is determined to be valid.

In another aspect of the invention the display device includes a Multipurpose Control Display Unit MCDU .

In still another aspect of the invention the plurality of fields include the selected altitude direction of the host aircraft to the selected altitude aircraft identification for one or more reference aircraft distance of the one or more reference aircraft from the host aircraft and location information of the one or more reference aircraft relative to the host aircraft.

The ATC comm page includes left and right columns of selectable items fields. The selectable items fields are populated by desired data entered into the scratch pad after activation of an associated button from one of the first or second button columns . This interface construct is used throughout operation of the MCDU . The ATC comm page includes a first selectable item that is selected upon activation of a first button in the second column of buttons . The activation of the first selectable item titled WHEN CAN WE opens a template for sending acceptable clearances to ATC e.g. WE CAN ACCEPT FL340.

The user interface includes a second selectable item titled ITP that is associated with a second button in the second column of buttons . Activation of the second button presents a Controller Pilot Datalink Communications CPDLC template as shown in and described in more detail below. Also included in the user interface is an ERASE ALL selectable item that is activated upon selection of a fourth button located in the second column of buttons . Activation of the fourth button erases all data that has been entered into any of the fields located in the user interface . The user interface also includes an ATC message MSG selectable item that is associated with a fifth button located in the second column of buttons . The number displayed in the adjacent to ATC MSG indicates the number of unread ATC messages. Selection of the button presents the first in order received unread ATC message to the user on the MCDU. Below the ATC MSG selectable item is a VERIFY selectable item associated with a sixth button of the second column of buttons . Activation of the sixth button displays the ATC message to be sent to ATC based on the information entered in the template for verification prior to sending. Activation of the button adjacent to an ATC COMM selectable item returns the MCDU to a main page index for ATC COMM.

The other fields in the user interface allow for quick sending of a request to ATC including concatenated ones e.g. ALT SPEED without having to go through detail pages which may require further information such as reasons for the request.

The ITP CPDLC template includes fields for entering information for a second reference aircraft. The fields are associated with buttons in the first and second columns of buttons and function in a similar manner as the fields associated with the first reference aircraft as described above.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

