---

title: Methods for the preparation of thiazolidinethione indene-based chiral auxiliaries
abstract: 

wherein R-Rare defined herein.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08309738&OS=08309738&RS=08309738
owner: University of Iowa Research Foundation
number: 08309738
owner_city: Iowa City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100111
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 144 138 filed Jan. 12 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein was made in part with government support under grant number EEC 0310689 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention described herein describes methods of synthesis of thiazolidinethione thione chiral auxiliary compounds and intermediate compounds for preparation of the chiral auxiliaries.

The asymmetric aldol addition mediated by a chiral auxiliary is one of the most commonly used reactions to form a carbon carbon bond and two chiral carbons adjacent to a carbonyl group stereoselectively see Arya and Qin 2000 56 917 947 Evans et al. 1982 13 1 115 Ager et al. 1996 96 835 875 . Several methodologies and chiral auxiliaries have been developed for this endeavor particularly dibutylboron enolates of N acyloxazolidinones have been valuable to prepare the Evans syn propionate aldol products see Evans et al. 1981 103 2127 2129 Oppolzer et al. 1990 112 2767 2772 and Sibi et al. 1995 36 8965 8968 . Utilizing the same chiral auxiliary titanium IV enolates of N acyloxazolidinones were shown to provide the non Evans syn propionate aldol products see Walker and Heathcock 1991 56 5747 5750 Bonner and Thornton 1991 113 1299 1308 and Yan et al. 1993 115 2613 2621 . Recent reports suggest that by using chlorotitanium IV enolates of N propionate thiazolidinethiones we can access the Evans syn aldol product when adding one equivalent of sparteine and the non Evans syn aldol product when adding two equivalents of the same base see Crimmins et al. 1997 119 7883 7884 and Crimmins et al. 2001 66 894 902 . This change in facial selectivity is the result of switching mechanistic pathways between chelated and non chelated transition states. Evans reported the anti aldol reaction promoted by catalytic amounts of magnesium halide in the presence of triethylamine and chlorotrimethylsilane. see Evans et al. 2002 124 392 393 and Evans et al. 2002 4 1127 1130 . These conditions deliver the Evans anti aldol product when using an oxazolidinone and the opposite aldol product when using a thiazolidinethione.

Chiral auxiliary driven acetate type aldol reactions have proven more difficult than the corresponding propionate reactions. N Acetate oxazolidinones and other chiral auxiliaries did not provide the diastereoselectivities achieved with the corresponding N propionates see Nerz Stormes and Thornton 1986 27 897 900 Masamune et al. 1985 24 1 XX and Braun 1987 26 24 37 . Several methods and strategies have been realized to solve this problem. Among them Nagao s acetate aldol reaction with tin enolate of N acetyl thiazolidinethione delivered high diastereoselectivities see Nagao et al. 1985 1418 Nagao et al. 1986 51 2391 2393 Velasquez and Olivo 2002 6 303 340 and Ortiz and Sansinenea 2007 28 109 147 . However the high price and irreproducibility of tin triflate prompted others to investigate other Lewis acids for this aldol reaction. The more economic titanium IV enolate was found to be highly efficient see Yan et al. 1995 60 3301 3306 Gonzalez et al. 1996 37 8949 8952 Crimmins et al. 1999 1 2029 2032 Romero Ortega et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 2002 43 6439 6441 and Hodge and Olivo 2004 60 9397 9403 . More sterically encumbered thiazolidinethiones and oxazolidinethiones have also been prepared to deliver higher diastereoselectivities albeit at a higher price for starting materials and or longer reaction sequences see Guz and Phillips 2002 4 2253 2256 Zhang et al. 2004 6 23 25 Zhang and Sammakia 2004 6 3139 3141 and Crimmins and Shamszad 2007 9 149 152 .

Therefore there exists a need in the art to address the preceding shortcomings of the art in particular with respect to the facile and lower cost preparation of chiral auxiliaries which show diastereoselectivity when utilized as N acetate enols.

In a second aspect the invention provides methods for preparing the first intermediate compound of the first aspect comprising contacting a compound of formula I 

 ii trifluoromethylsulfonic acid under suitable reaction conditions to provide a compound of the formula 

A novel indene based thiazolidinethione analog of Ghosh s oxazolidinone see Ghosh et al. 1992 1673 1674 has been prepared from commercially available trans 1 amino 2 indanol 1R 2R trans 1 amino 2 indanol and 1S 2S trans 1 amino 2 indanol are available from Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. . Cat. Numbers 663336 and 663344 . The rigid nature of this chiral auxiliary promises to deliver high diastereoselectivities in aldol reactions and crystalline products.

The preparative methods provided herein for chiral auxiliary of formula III require no column chromatography purification resulting in a more economic procedure by eliminating large amounts of solvents and expensive silica gel from the preparative processes. Further the resulting thiazolidienthiones formed by the N acylation of the auxiliaries of formula III as well as the aldol products resulting from such thiazolidienthions are generally solids making their handling and purification more facile. In particular the absolute stereochemistry of such aldol products can be readily determined by X ray analysis due to the presence of heavy atoms sulfur . In some embodiments the starting materials of formula I such as non racemic 1 amino 2 indanol can be more economic than other starting materials for the preparation of Crimmins Sammakia s and Phillips Sammakia s thiazolidinethiones.

In embodiments of the first aspect of the invention the compound of formula I is of one of formulae Ia Ih 

In embodiments the compound of formula I is 1S 2S 1 amino 2 3 dihydro 1H inden 2 ol Ii or 1R 2R 1 amino 2 3 dihydro 1H inden 2 ol Ij . In embodiments the compound of formula I is 1R 2R 1 amino 2 3 dihydro 1H inden 2 ol Ij . In embodiments the compound of formula I is 1S 2S 1 amino 2 3 dihydro 1H inden 2 ol Ii .

In some embodiment of any of the preceding embodiments the acid is sulfuric acid. In other embodiments of any of the preceding embodiments the acid is trifluoromethylsulfonic acid. In other embodiments of any of the preceding embodiments the acid is phosphoric acid.

Suitable conditions for contacting the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij with an acid selected from sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and trifluoromethylsulfonic acid include providing about 1 100 molar equivalents of the acid with respect to the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij and contacting the compounds at a temperature between about 40 C. and 40 C. For example about 5 and 50 molar equivalents or about 5 and 25 molar equivalents or about 5 and 15 molar equivalents of the acid can be provided with respect to the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij . Further the contacting can take place at a temperature between about 30 C. and 30 C. or about 20 C. and 30 C. or about 10 C. and 30 C. or about 10 C. and 20 C. or about 10 C. and 10 C.

In embodiments of any one of formula I and Ia Ij Ris C Calkyl or phenyl wherein Ris optionally substituted with one or more groups which are each independently nitro cyano halo hydroxy Calkoxy Calkyl or Chaloalkyl. In embodiments Ris Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or Calkyl e.g. ethyl .

In embodiments of any one of formula I and Ia Ij Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one or more groups which are each independently nitro cyano halo hydroxy Calkoxy Calkyl or Chaloalkyl.

In any of the preceding embodiments the alkali hydroxide can be sodium or potassium hydroxide. Further in any of the preceding embodiments M can be sodium or potassium in some embodiments M is potassium.

Suitable conditions for contacting the first intermediate with a compound of formula II in the presence of an alkali hydroxide include providing about 1 5 molar equivalents of the compound of formula II with respect the first intermediate and contacting the same at a temperature between about room temperature 25 C. and about 100 C. For example about 2 4 molar equivalents or about 2.5 3.5 molar equivalents of the compound of formula II with respect the first intermediate can be provided. Further the contacting can occur at a temperature between about 30 C. and 90 C. or about 40 C. and 90 C. or about 50 C. and 90 C. or about 50 C. and 80 C. or about 60 C. and 80 C. Such contacting can take place using an aqueous solvent such as aqueous acetonitrile dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide dimethylacetamide dioxane tetrahydrofuran diglyme dimethoxyethane acetone methanol ethanol isopropanol and mixtures thereof. Alternatively such contacting can take place in solvent consisting essentially of water.

In embodiments of the first aspect of the invention the compound of formula III is of one of formulae IIIa IIIh 

In embodiments of the first aspect of the invention the compound of formula III is 3aR 8aS 3 3a 8 8a tetrahydro 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazole 2 thione IIIi or 3aS 8aR 3 3a 8 8a tetrahydro 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazole 2 thione IIIj . In embodiments the compound of formula III is 3aR 8aS 3 3a 8 8a tetrahydro 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazole 2 thione IIIi . In other embodiments the compound of formula III is 3aS 8aR 3 3a 8 8a tetrahydro 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazole 2 thione IIIj .

In embodiments of any of the preceding the method further comprises contacting the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj with

 a a compound of the formula R X or R O R wherein X is halo and each Ris independently C O CH R Ror C O C R CH R wherein Ris hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl arylCalkyl arylCalkenyl heteroarylCalkyl heteroarylCalkenyl CcycloalkylCalkyl CcycloalkylCalkenyl heterocyclylCalkyl heterocyclylCalkenyl aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl or heterocyclyl and Ris hydrogen or Calkyl 

 b a compound of the formula R OH in the presence of an amide coupling reagent under suitable reaction conditions to provide a compound of formula IV 

In embodiments the compound of formula IV is 1 3aS 8aR 2 thioxo 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazol 3 3 aH 8H 8aH yl ethanone IVi 1 3aS 8aR 2 thioxo 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazol 3 3aH 8H 8aH yl propan 1 one IVj 1 3aR 8aS 2 thioxo 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazol 3 3aH 8H 8aH yl propan 1 one IVk or 1 3aR 8aS 2 thioxo 2H indeno 1 2 d thiazol 3 3aH 8H 8aH yl ethanone IVl .

In embodiments of any one of formulae IV and IVa IVl Ris C O CH R R. In embodiments of any one of formulae IV and IVa IVl Ris C O C R CH R .

In embodiments of any one of formulae IV and IVa IVl Ris C O Calkyl or C O C R CH R wherein Rand Rare independently hydrogen or Calkyl. In embodiments of any one of formulae IV and IVa IVl Ris C O Calkyl. For example Ris C O CHor C O CHCH. In some embodiments Ris C O CH. In some embodiments Ris C O CHCH. In some embodiments Ris C O C CH CH CH C O C H CH CH or C O C H CH.

In the preceding methods the compounds of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj can be contacted with a compound of the formula R X e.g. wherein X is chloro or bromo to provide the compounds of formula IV . The compounds of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj can be also contacted with a compound of the formula R O Rto provide the compounds of formula IV .

Suitable conditions for contacting the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj with a compound of the formula R X or R O R include providing about 0.5 to 10 equivalents of R X or R O Rwith respect to the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj where the contacting can occur at a temperature between about 80 C. and 100 C. For example about 0.75 and 5 molar equivalents or about 0.80 and 3 molar equivalents or about 0.95 and 2 molar equivalents of R X or R O Rcan be provided with respect to the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj . Further the contacting can take place at a temperature between about 80 C. and 80 C. or about 80 C. and 60 C. or about 80 C. and 40 C. or about 60 C. and 40 C. or about 40 C. and 40 C. or about 40 C. and 10 C. Optionally between about 1 and 10 equivalents of a non nucleophilic amine such as triethylamine N N diisopropylethylamine 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine pyridine 2 6 lutidine 4 dimethylaminopyridine and N methylmorpholine may be provided along with or prior to the addition of R X or R O R.

Alternatively the compounds of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj can be contacted with a compound of the formula R OH and an amide coupling agent to provide the compounds of formula IV . Suitable amide coupling agents include carbodiimides N N carbonyldiimizadoles or benzotriazol 1 yloxyphosphonium salts. For example suitable carbodiimides include but are not limited to 1 3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC 1 3 diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC 4 2 cyclohexylimino methylene aminoethyl 4 methylmorpholin 4 ium p toluenesulfonate 1 3 di tert butylcarbodiimide 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC 1 3 Di p tolylcarbodiimide 1 tert Butyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide and 1 3 Bis 2 2 dimethyl 1 3 dioxolan 4 ylmethyl carbodiimide.

N N carbonyldiimizadoles include but are not limited to 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole CDI and 1 1 carbonylbis 2 methylimidazole .

Benzotriazol 1 yloxy salts include but are not limited to N dimethylamino 3H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridin 3 yloxy methylene N methylmethanaminium benzotriazol 1 yloxytris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate BOP O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HBTU O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU 2 6 chloro 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethylaminium hexafluorophosphate HCTU 1 H benzotriazolium 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 5 chloro 3 oxide tetrafluoroborate TCTU benzotriazol 1 yl oxy tris pyrrolidino phosphoniumhexafluorophosphate PyBOP .

Other suitable amide coupling agents include but are not limited to N hydroxysuccinimide 4 nitrophenol 2 nitrophenol bis 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl phosphinic chloride BOPCl 1 Hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole HOAT 1 hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate HOBT 1 hydroxy 6 chlorobenzotriazole 3 hydroxy 1 2 3 benzotriazin 4 3H one HOOBT 3 Diethoxyphosphoryloxy 1 2 3 benzotriazin 4 3H one DEPBT and bromo tris pyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBrop . Such coupling agents can be utilized in the presence of a non nucleophilic amine such as triethylamine N N diisopropylethylamine 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine pyridine 2 6 lutidine 4 dimethylaminopyridine and N methylmorpholine.

Suitable conditions for contacting the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj with a compound of the formula R OH in the presence of an amide coupling reagent include a providing about 0.5 5 molar equivalents of R OH with respect to the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj and contacting the compounds at a temperature between about 80 C. and 150 C. For example about 0.75 and 2 molar equivalents or about 0.80 and 2 molar equivalents or about 0.95 and 2 molar equivalents of R OH can be provided with respect to the compound of any one of formulae III and IIIa IIIj . Further the contacting can take place at a temperature between about 80 C. and 100 C. or about 80 C. and 80 C. or about 80 C. and 60 C. or about 80 C. and 40 C. or about 60 C. and 40 C. or about 40 C. and 40 C. or about 40 C. and 10 C. In some embodiments between about 1 and 3 equivalents of the amide coupling agent can be provided. Optionally between about 1 and 10 equivalents of a non nucleophilic amine such as triethylamine N N diisopropylethylamine 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine pyridine 2 6 lutidine 4 dimethylaminopyridine and N methylmorpholine may be additionally provided.

The second aspect the invention provides methods for preparing the first intermediate compounds comprising contacting a compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij including any embodiments thereof each as defined above with

 ii trifluoromethylsulfonic acid under suitable reaction conditions to provide a compound of the formula 

Suitable conditions for contacting the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij with an acid selected from sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and trifluoromethylsulfonic acid include a providing about 1 100 molar equivalents of the acid with respect to the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij and contacting the compounds at a temperature between about 40 C. and 40 C. For example about 5 and 50 molar equivalents or about 5 and 25 molar equivalents or about 5 and 15 molar equivalents of the acid can be provided with respect to the compound of any one of formulae I and Ia Ij . Further the contacting can take place at a temperature between about 30 C. and 30 C. or about 20 C. and 30 C. or about 10 C. and 30 C. or about 10 C. and 20 C. or about 10 C. and 10 C.

Alkali metal xanthates such as those of formula II in the preceding description of the invention can be prepared as are known to those skilled in the art. For example methods for making xanthates can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 1 507 089 1 872 452 2 011 302 2 037 717 2 037 718 and 3 607 865 each of which are hereby incorporated by references in their entirety.

Further the 1 amino 2 indanols of formula I in the preceding description of the invention can be prepared for example starting with a 1 4 butanedione with a cyclopentadiene to yield a substituted indene as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 194 619 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The substituted indene may then be converted by epoxidation e.g. with MCPBA followed by nucleophilic ring opening according to methods known to those skilled in the art e.g. see Pator and Yus 2005 9 1 29 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety to yield the trans 1 amino 2 indanols for use in the present methods.

All patents patent applications and literature references cited in the specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of inconsistencies the present disclosure including definitions will prevail.

The term alkenyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon containing from 2 to 20 carbons and containing at least one carbon carbon double bond formed by the removal of two hydrogens. Representative examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to ethenyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 2 propenyl 3 butenyl 4 pentenyl 5 hexenyl 2 heptenyl 2 methyl 1 heptenyl and 3 decenyl.

The term alkoxy as used herein means an alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. Representative examples of alkoxy include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy 2 propoxy butoxy tert butoxy pentyloxy and hexyloxy.

The term alkyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl n hexyl 3 methylhexyl 2 2 dimethylpentyl 2 3 dimethylpentyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl and n decyl.

The term alkynyl as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon group containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Representative examples of alkynyl include but are not limited to acetylenyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 3 butynyl 2 pentynyl and 1 butynyl.

The term aryl as used herein means phenyl or a bicyclic aryl or a tricyclic aryl. The bicyclic aryl is naphthyl or a phenyl fused to a cycloalkyl or a phenyl fused to a cycloalkenyl. The bicyclic aryl is attached to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom contained within the bicyclic aryl. Representative examples of the bicyclic aryl include but are not limited to dihydroindenyl indenyl naphthyl dihydronaphthalenyl azulenyl and tetrahydronaphthalenyl. The tricyclic aryl is anthracene or phenanthrene or a bicyclic aryl fused to a cycloalkyl or a bicyclic aryl fused to a cycloalkenyl or a bicyclic aryl fused to a phenyl. The tricyclic aryl is attached to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom contained within the tricyclic aryl. Representative examples of tricyclic aryl ring include but are not limited to dihydroanthracenyl fluorenyl and tetrahydrophenanthrenyl.

The term arylalkyl as used herein means an aryl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of arylalkyl include but are not limited to benzyl 2 phenylethyl 3 phenylpropyl and 2 naphth 2 ylethyl.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein means a monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic ring system. Monocyclic ring systems are exemplified by a saturated cyclic hydrocarbon group containing from 3 to 10 carbon atoms. Examples of monocyclic ring systems include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Bicyclic ring systems are exemplified by a bridged monocyclic ring system in which two non adjacent carbon atoms of the monocyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge of between one and three additional carbon atoms. Representative examples of bicyclic ring systems include but are not limited to bicyclo 3.1.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane bicyclo 3.3.1 nonane and bicyclo 4.2.1 nonane. Tricyclic ring systems are exemplified by a bicyclic ring system in which two non adjacent carbon atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by a bond or an alkylene bridge of between one and three carbon atoms. Representative examples of tricyclic ring systems include but are not limited to tricyclo 3.3.1.0 nonane and tricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane adamantane .

The term cycloalkylalkyl as used herein means a cycloalkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of cycloalkylalkyl include but are not limited to cyclopropylmethyl 2 cyclobutylethyl cyclopentylmethyl cyclohexylmethyl and 4 cycloheptylbutyl.

The term haloalkyl as used herein means at least one halogen as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of haloalkyl include but are not limited to chloromethyl 2 fluoroethyl trifluoromethyl pentafluoroethyl and 2 chloro 3 fluoropentyl.

The term heteroaryl as used herein means a monocyclic heteroaryl or a bicyclic heteroaryl. The monocyclic heteroaryl is a 5 or 6 membered ring. The 5 membered ring consists of two double bonds and one two three or four nitrogen atoms and optionally one oxygen or sulfur atom. The 6 membered ring consists of three double bonds and one two three or four nitrogen atoms. The 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the heteroaryl. Representative examples of monocyclic heteroaryl include but are not limited to furyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl triazolyl and triazinyl. The bicyclic heteroaryl consists of a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a phenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heteroaryl fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The bicyclic heteroaryl is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the bicyclic heteroaryl. Representative examples of bicyclic heteroaryl include but are not limited to benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzoxadiazolyl cinnolinyl dihydroquinolinyl dihydroisoquinolinyl furopyridinyl indazolyl indolyl isoquinolinyl naphthyridinyl quinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl and thienopyridinyl.

The term heteroarylalkyl as used herein means a heteroaryl as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein. Representative examples of heteroarylalkyl include but are not limited to fur 3 ylmethyl 1H imidazol 2 ylmethyl 1H imidazol 4 ylmethyl 1 pyridin 4 yl ethyl pyridin 3 ylmethyl 6 chloropyridin 3 ylmethyl pyridin 4 ylmethyl 6 trifluoromethyl pyridin 3 yl methyl 6 cyano pyridin 3 yl methyl 2 cyano pyridin 4 yl methyl 5 cyano pyridin 2 yl methyl 2 chloro pyridin 4 yl methyl pyrimidin 5 ylmethyl 2 pyrimidin 2 yl propyl thien 2 ylmethyl and thien 3 ylmethyl.

The term heterocyclyl as used herein means a monocyclic heterocycle or a bicyclic heterocycle or a tricyclic heterocycle. The monocyclic heterocycle is a 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 3 or 4 membered ring contains 1 heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 5 membered ring contains zero or one double bond and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The 6 or 7 membered ring contains zero one or two double bonds and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The monocyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the monocyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of monocyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to azetidinyl azepanyl aziridinyl diazepanyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 1 3 dithiolanyl 1 3 dithianyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl oxadiazolinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl thiadiazolinyl thiadiazolidinyl thiazolinyl thiazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholinyl thiomorpholine sulfone thiopyranyl and trithianyl. The bicyclic heterocycle is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The bicyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the bicyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of bicyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to 1 3 benzodioxolyl 1 3 benzodithiolyl 2 3 dihydro 1 4 benzodioxinyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzofuranyl 2 3 dihydro 1 benzothienyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indolyl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl. The tricyclic heterocycle is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a cycloalkenyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heteroaryl. The tricyclic heterocycle is connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the tricyclic heterocycle. Representative examples of tricyclic heterocycle include but are not limited to 2 3 4 4a 9 9a hexahydro 1H carbazolyl 5a 6 7 8 9 9a hexahydrodibenzo b d furanyl and 5a 6 7 8 9 9a hexahydrodibenzo b d thienyl.

The term heterocyclylalkyl as used herein means a heterocycle as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein.

All moisture sensitive reactions were carried out in oven dried glassware under argon atmosphere. Melting point m.p. measurements are uncorrected and were determined on a Thomas Fisher capillary melting point apparatus. Optical rotations were measured in a JASCO P 1020 polarimeter with sodium D line 589 nm and are reported on a concentration c of grams 100 mL of solvent. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR spectra were measured at 300 MHz on a Bruker Avance 300. H NMR chemical shifts are reported in parts per million ppm relative to MeSi 0.0 ppm with coupling constants J reported in Hertz Hz . Multiplicities are reported as singlet s doublet d triplet t quartet q multiplet m broad singlet bs . C NMR are reported using 77.2 ppm CDCl and 39.5 ppm DMSO d as internal references. Carbon signal multiplicities were determined by DEPT. High resolution mass spectra were performed at either the University of Iowa Mass Spectrometry Facility or at Amgen Thousand Oaks Calif.

A general procedure for the synthesis of chiral oxazolidinethiones and thiazolidinethiones is to treat 1 2 aminols derived from alpha aminoacids with carbon disulfide and base see Delaunay et al. 1995 60 6604 6607 . Oxazolidinethiones are obtained preferentially when a mild base is employed and thiazolidinethiones can be prepared in excellent yields when a stronger base is used instead. However when this latter method was applied to trans amino 2 indanol 1 see Kozhushkov et al. 2005 347 255 265 thiazolidinethione 2 was obtained in poor yield.

We have unexpectedly found that thiazolidinethiones can be obtained in very good yield when a trans aminoindanol is first treated with sulfuric acid and then the crude sulfated indanol was treated with an alkali alkyl xanthate and aqueous sodium hydroxide and the mixture heated to 75 C. for 16 h. see Yamada et al. 1996 61 5932 5938 and Dewey and Bafford 1965 30 495 500 . Using the following protocol a single purification step by column chromatography was utilized to obtain clean thiazolidinethione 2.

 4S 5R Indano 1 2 d thiazolidin 2 thione 2 . Well stirred conc. sulfuric acid 28 mL 506 mmol cooled to 0 C. was treated with small portions of 1S 2S trans 1 amino 2 indanol 1 5.96 g 40 mmol over 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred 20 minutes further after the addition of the last portion of the amino indanol. The light brown clear viscous reaction mixture was poured over crushed ice approx. 100 g . The precipitate was collected by filtration and the solids were washed with ice cold HO 20 mL .

Sulfuric Acid Mono trans 1 amino indan 2 yl Ester White solid silica gel TLC R0.39 7 3 CHCl MeOH m.p. product decomposed without melting H NMR DMSO d 8.47 2H bs 7.51 1H m 7.33 3H m 4.92 1H dd J 13.0 7.0 Hz 4.72 1H m 3.35 1H dd J 16.4 6.8 Hz 2.98 1H dd J 16.4 7.6 Hz C NMR DMSO d 139.8 C 136.4 C 129.3 CH 127.2 CH 125.0 CH 124.4 CH 79.2 CH 59.9 CH 36.6 CH . The white solid ammonium sulfate salt was transferred into a 500 mL round bottom reaction flask. Potassium ethyl xanthate 19.25 g 120 mmol 3 eq. was added to the solid followed by addition of a 0.5 N solution of sodium hydroxide 80 mL 1.86 g of NaOH 40 mmol . A reflux condenser was connected to the reaction flask and the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool down and extracted with CHCl 4 50 mL . The combined organic phases were dried over anhydrous NaSOand the solvent evaporated giving a light yellow solid 7.5 g 92 yield . For analytical purposes a portion of the crude was purified by silica gel column chromatography and eluted with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 7 3 affording thiazolidinethione chiral auxiliary 2 as white solid powder. Silica gel TLC R0.34 7 3 petroleum ether ethyl acetate m.p. 185 186 C. 52.3 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR CDCl 8.69 8.49 1H bs 7.34 4H m 5.61 1H d J 8.3 Hz 4.80 1H ddd J 8.3 7.6 3.3 Hz 3.50 1H dd J 17.1 7.6 Hz 3.28 1H dd J 17.1 3.3 Hz C NMR CDCl 200.1 CS 140.3 C 138.3 C 129.8 CH 128.2 CH 125.5 CH 124.9 CH 72.9 CH 51.9 CH 40.0 CH . HRMS MALDI TOF calculated for CHNS H m z 208.0255 found m z 208.0267.

Acylation of the was accomplished in very good yields by treating the thiazolidinethione with the corresponding acyl chloride or by coupling with the carboxylic acid see Andrade et al. 2003 15 2351 2352 .

3 4S 5R indano 1 2 d thiazolidin 2 thione ethan 1 one 3 . Acetyl chloride 1.17 g 1.1 mL 15 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of thiazolidinethione 2 2.07 g 10 mmol and triethylamine 2.02 g 2.78 mL 20 mmol in dichloromethane 80 mL under argon atmosphere at room temperature. After the addition the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 40 mL and washed with HO 3 30 mL . The organic phase was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated to give a light brown oil. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography 3 10 cm . Elution with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 8 2 delivered a yellow solid 2.45 g 98 yield . Silica gel TLC R0.32 8 2 petroleum ether ethyl acetate m.p. 150 151 C. 646.3 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR CDCl 7.41 7.28 4H m 6.60 1H d J 7.1 Hz 4.57 1H dd J 7.1 6.1 Hz 3.38 1H dd J 17.0 6.1 Hz 3.15 1H d J 17.0 Hz 2.86 3H s C NMR CDCl 201.6 CS 171.8 CO 139.1 C 138.9 C 129.6 CH 128.2 CH 126.0 CH 125.3 CH 75.5 CH 46.9 CH 36.3 CH 27.0 CH . HRMS EI calculated form CHNOS m z 249.0282 found m z 249.0280.

3 4S 5R indano 1 2 d thiazolidin 2 thione propan 1 one 4 . Propionyl chloride 416 mg 0.4 mL 4.5 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of thiazolidinethione 2 609 mg 3 mmol and triethylamine 670 mg 0.84 mL 6 mmol in dichloromethane 20 mL in an argon atmosphere at room temperature. The reaction mixture which gradually became yellow was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL . The organic layer was collected and washed with HO 2 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated to give a brown yellow solid. The crude residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography on a silica gel column 3 cm 10 cm . Elution with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 85 15 afforded a yellow solid 2.37 g 90 yield . Silica gel TLC R0.30 85 15 petroleum ether ethyl acetate m.p. 134 135 C. 660.6 c 1.0 CHCl H NMR CDCl 7.37 7.25 4H m 6.56 1H d J 7.1 Hz 4.52 1H dd J 7.1 6.0 Hz 3.43 1H dq J 17.7 7.2 Hz 3.35 1H dd J 17.0 6.0 Hz 3.15 1H dq J 17.7 7.2 Hz 3.10 1H d J 17.0 Hz 1.24 3H t J 7.2 Hz C NMR CDCl 201.1 CS 175.9 CO 139.1 C 138.9 C 129.5 CH 128.2 CH 125.9 CH 125.2 CH 75.9 CH 46.9 CH 36.3 CH 32.2 CH 9.1 CH HRMS EI calculated for CHNOS m z 263.0439 found m z 263.0443.

The N propionate derivative 4 was added to cinnamaldehyde to test its diastereoselectivity using the conditions reported by Crimmins Scheme II. Indeed when one equivalent of titanium tetrachloride and one equivalent of Hunig s base were employed a closed transition state where both the aldehyde and the auxiliary are coordinated to the titanium enolate delivered the non Evans syn aldol product 5. When 2.5 equivalents of sparteine and one equivalent of titanium tetrachloride were employed an open transition state where the chiral auxiliary is not coordinated to the titanium enolate delivered the Evans syn aldol product 6. Using the conditions reported by Evans for anti aldol reaction catalytic amount of magnesium bromide trimethylsilyl chloride and triethyl amine the anti aldol product 7 was isolated.

To confirm the relative stereochemistry of the aldol products compounds 5 7 were reduced with sodium borohydride to the corresponding diols and treated with 2 2 dimethoxypropane to obtain acetonides 8 and 9. Analysis of the H NMR coupling constants of acetonides 8 and 9 was valuable to establish their stereochemistry Scheme III.

The acetate aldol reaction employing N acetyl thiazolidinethione 3 was investigated with different types of aldehydes Table 1. Following the optimized procedure reported by Crimmins one equivalent of N acetyl thiazolidinethione 3 was treated with one equivalent of titanium IV chloride and one equivalent of sparteine and 0.9 equivalents of aldehyde added to the reaction mixture at 78 C. These reaction conditions worked very well with aliphatic unsaturated and aromatic aldehydes. Yields of aldol products ranged between 90 and 98 and diastereoselectivities from 91 9 to 98 2. The stereochemistry of the aldol products was confirmed by X ray crystallographic analyses of products 10b and 10i. In addition aldol product 10c was reduced to R 4 methyl pentane 1 3 diol confirming the stereochemistry of the product.

The versatility of the new chiral auxiliary was investigated by the conversion of the aldol products into other functional groups Scheme IV. As mentioned previously aldol product 5 was reduced with sodium borohydride to diol 12. Reduction of the TES protected aldol product 5 with dibal H delivered aldehyde 13. Hydrolysis of the aldol product 5 with lithium hydroxide gave carboxylic acid 14. Displacement of the thiazolidinethione auxiliary with ethanol and benzyl alcohol mediated by DMAP was carried out smoothly under mild conditions see Wu et al. 2004 69 6141 6144 . Ammonolysis of the chiral auxiliary provide amide 17 see Osorio Lozada et al. 2004 15 3811 3815 . As shown with other thiazolidinethiones the indene based thiazolidinethione can be easily removed furnishing different functionalities.

