---

title: Securing messages associated with a multicast communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a server determines to update at least one group session key (GSK) parameter for a given multicast group, the at least one GSK parameter configured to permit encryption, decryption and/or authentication of multicast messaging exchanged between members of the given multicast group during a multicast communication session. The server sends a notification to a plurality of multicast group members of the given multicast group that an update of the at least one GSK parameter for the given multicast group is available. At least one of the multicast group members receives the notification and sends a provisioning request to retrieve the updated at least one GSK parameter, the provisioning request including information specific to the given multicast group member. The server generates and encrypts the updated at least one GSK parameter and sends the encrypted at least one GSK parameter to the at least one multicast group member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08495363&OS=08495363&RS=08495363
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08495363
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 166 617 entitled SECURING MESSAGES ASSOCIATED WITH A MULTICAST COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Apr. 3 2009 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to securing messages associated with a multicast communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a server determines to update at least one group session key GSK parameter for a given multicast group the at least one GSK parameter configured to permit encryption decryption and or authentication of multicast messaging exchanged between members of the given multicast group during a multicast communication session. The server sends a notification to a plurality of multicast group members of the given multicast group that an update of the at least one GSK parameter for the given multicast group is available. At least one of the multicast group members receives the notification and sends a provisioning request to retrieve the updated at least one GSK parameter the provisioning request including information specific to the given multicast group member. The server generates and encrypts the updated at least one GSK parameter and sends the encrypted at least one GSK parameter to the at least one multicast group member.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the Background section multicast messaging may be performed in a number of ways. In order to better understand embodiments of the present invention a conventional unicast key distribution process for use in a conventional multicast messaging process will be described with respect to . Then a multicast messaging process wherein a set of prospective sectors which are likely to include one or more multicast members is established before multicast session initiation will be described according to embodiments of the present invention.

If two or more of ATs . . . N within the system as illustrated in wish to exchange information with each other a communication session e.g. a half duplex push to talk PTT call over multicast a VoIP full duplex call and or any other form of IP based packet data exchange can be established to facilitate the data transfer between the respective ATs. To increase the security of a communication session individual IP data packets can be authenticated and or encrypted after a key used for authentication and or encryption and decryption is shared by the parties involved in the communication session. For example a Diffie Hellman key exchange process can be used to permit two parties that have no prior knowledge of each other to jointly establish a shared secret key over an insecure communications channel.

However key exchange procedures such as the Diffie Hellman key exchange protocol can have several drawbacks when applied to a group communication session e.g. a communication session that potentially involved more than two ATs . As an initial matter as with any exchange of secret information over an unsecure communications channel it is possible that the Diffie Hellman key exchange protocol is susceptible to a man in the middle attack which means a hacker can potentially intercept messaging in different directions of the communication session and can then monitor the session and or masquerade as a legitimate call participant. Also because group communication sessions can potentially include a very high number of call participants implementing the Diffie Hellman key exchange protocol can become computationally intensive and bandwidth inefficient in group communication sessions because each call participant is required to exchange multiple authentication credentials to derive the same key independently of one another.

Conventionally those of skill in the art have attempted to mitigate the above noted problems associated with the Diffie Hellman key exchange protocol as applied to group communication sessions with improved digital certificates management. However managing digital certificates adds complexity to the communication system for large groups and the numerous round trip delays associated with message exchange in support of the digital certificate management makes digital certificate management inefficient for large groups.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to group key distribution to access terminals that belong to a particular multicast group within a wireless communications system. As will be described below one or more of the embodiments permits a group session key GSK to be distributed to each multicast group member for use in authentication and decryption of multicast transmissions for a multicast session. The multicast authentication process relies in part upon a conventional unicast key distribution process like key generation based on a pre provisioned shared secret similar to SIP authentication e.g. a TCP IP based application layer protocol that is commonly used for setup up and tearing down multimedia communication sessions which is described in more detail next with respect to . While is described with respect to SIP it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be implemented in accordance with protocols other than SIP.

Referring to assume that a given AT is pre provisioned with a shared secret that is shared with the AAA . The shared secret is called the Base Application Key BAK . Accordingly the given AT calculates a client session key based on the shared secret BAK for authenticating communications for a particular unicast communication session using the HMAC algorithm with the BAK and the user credentials as the inputs to the algorithm . The given AT then sends authentication credentials including a message digest based on the client session key within a register message to the IMS SIP Registration Server via the RAN along with application specific headers in the SIP Register message. The register message is used by the given AT or SIP user agent UA to convey its current IP address and the URLs for which the given AT would like to receive calls. The IMS SIP Registration Server registers the given AT and acknowledges the registration with a OK message . The IMS SIP Registration Server then forwards a notify message with the message digest and the user credentials received from the AT to the application server including a home carrier identifier ID for the given AT . Notify messages are sent to inform subscribers or subscription managers of changes in state to which the subscriber has a subscription.

The application server then forwards the message digest and the user credentials to the AAA and requests authentication of the given AT from the AAA . The AAA calculates the client session key for the given AT based on the shared secret BAK and user credentials and using the same HMAC algorithm as the Client . The AAA performs an authentication check for the given AT by computing the message digest based on the client session key and comparing it to the message digest received from the AT . If the message digests match then the AT is authenticated and the client session key is to be used for the future transactions . Accordingly both the given AT and the AAA are assumed to be pre provisioned with the shared secret key which is later used to calculate the client session key before the process of is initiated.

After authenticating the client in the AAA forwards the client session key for the given AT to the application server and the application server stores the client session key . The application server then sends a message indicating that service is available to the given AT and the given AT is thereafter aware that the client session key can be used such that media can begin to be exchanged between the given AT and the application server using the client session key for unicast authentication. Accordingly by applying a unicast authentication policy the given AT and the application server can exchange packets authenticated with the client session key that is now shared by the both the given AT and the application server .

Referring to the provisioning server determines whether to generate or update a group seed and a group session key GSK time of a given GSK for a particular closed multicast group which is described in more detail after the description of . As used herein a closed multicast group is any multicast group that restricts its participants such that media encryption and the lower layer signaling is used to block restricted ATs from monitoring associated multicast sessions involving the closed multicast group. The closed multicast group also refers to a group which is identified by a unique group address e.g. a SIP Uniform Resource Locator and a conference ID wherein the members of the group form a fixed member list before the multicast call is started and the member list does not change for the duration of the call. Note that the participant list members actively participating in the call may change during the call.

The secret key corresponds to a private key known at the provisioning server and made available to the application server but is not shared with the multicast group members. The GSK time corresponds to a future time period where the GSK is valid for encryption and or decryption of media and authentication of signaling for the closed multicast group and can be input by an operator of the provisioning server to establish a validity duration or period for the new GSK. In an example the group seed could either be automatically generated by a cryptographically random number generator at the provisioning server or alternatively can be manually entered by an operator of the provisioning server e.g. as a 128 bit cryptographically random number . When a new group seed is generated for a given multicast group a new group session key GSK is also generated for the given multicast group e.g. as shown below in block at the provisioning server and or at the application server . The new GSK is then distributed to each multicast group member of the given multicast group as will be described below in more detail. In an example the GSKs can be kept relatively small e.g. 256 bits such that the GSK can be transferred in a single transaction or message so as to reduce messaging within the system.

In of the provisioning server determines a need to change the GSK. This can be triggered based on the need to change the GSK as a result of group membership changes or based on the administrator s periodic key update policy to update the keys to improve security or based on a the feedback mechanism between the provisioning server and the multimedia clients to change the key triggered when the number of failures in decrypting authenticating multicast media crosses a preset threshold number. Based on one of the triggers assume that the provisioning server determines to update both the group seed for the given multicast group and the GSK time for the given multicast group. The provisioning server chooses a GSK time based on the criticality of the GSK update. In case the events are non critical the provisioning server chooses a GSK time that is typically beyond the network peak hours. Accordingly the provisioning server stores the new group seed and GSK time corresponding to the group address in a user group database . In an example the user group database corresponds to a secure database that is maintained at the provisioning server or the application server and is accessible by both components. The application server only reads from the database where as the provisioning server can write to the database.

In and of based on the GSK time the provisioning server schedules and sends a GSK update notification. For example since the GSK time indicates a value beyond which the GSK is valid the provisioning server chooses a notification schedule that takes into account at least the following constraints in order to allow the multimedia clients to obtain the GSK updates the scheduled notification time is well in advance of the GSK time and the scheduled notification time is during network non peak hours to try to reduce and or prevent wastage of network resources during peak hours resulting from the GSK update transaction originating from the sizable number of members in each multicast group. The provisioning server then determines to notify the provisioning module B of each member of the given multicast group that is registered with the application server that an update related to the GSK of the given multicast group is available. Accordingly the provisioning server sends a notification to the provisioning module B of the given AT e.g. and any other ATs registered with the application server to the given multicast group that indicates the availability of a GSK update .

Likewise in the provisioning server determines to notify the application server that a GSK update is available for one or more multicast groups. The application server retrieves the updated group seed and GSK time for the corresponding group address from the user group database and generates the new GSK s for each multicast group that requires an update e.g. in a manner similar to that of at the provisioning server which is described below in greater detail . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the application server has access to the user group database and as such computing the new GSK is a relatively simple matter. However for security reasons the individual multicast group members cannot access the user group database and as such the GSK is distributed to the multicast group members in a different manner as will be described below in more detail.

After the provisioning module B of the given AT receives the GSK update notification from the provisioning module B determines whether the multimedia client is currently engaged in a call and if not notifies the multimedia client A that an updated GSK and associated GSK time are available for download from the provisioning server . While not shown explicitly within if the multimedia client A is engaged in a call either the provisioning module B will wait for the call to complete before notifying the multimedia client A of the GSK update or the provisioning module B will provide the notification to the multimedia client A and the multimedia client A will then wait until the call completes before attempting to update the GSK information.

The multimedia client A of the given AT receives the GSK update notification from the provisioning module B and then calculates and stores a private encryption key PEK as well as a client number used once Cnonce . The PEK is calculated using the shared secret BAK the Cnonce value along with the given AT s user credentials by applying the Hash based Message Authentication Code HMAC Secure Hash Algorithm SHA 256 algorithm . Also in the multimedia client A de registers itself from the application server by sending a deregistration message to the application server . The multimedia client de registers because the multimedia client A now knows that its current GSK may no longer be valid as inferred from receipt of the GSK update notification. The multimedia client A informs the provisioning module B that the multimedia client A is ready to receive the GSK update s and also passes the Cnonce .

The provisioning module B at the given AT then sends a provisioning request to the provisioning server to request the new GSK and GSK time . The provisioning request sent in includes one or more credentials of the given AT s user for the group multimedia service e.g. a primary address of the given AT s user for the group multimedia service and further includes the Cnonce generated in . Upon receiving the provisioning request from the provisioning module B the provisioning server requests the AAA to provide the PEK corresponding to the given AT e.g. or a user of the given AT and provides the AAA the credentials of the given AT s user as included in the provisioning request from e.g. a username for the given AT s user and the Cnonce value generated in .

The AAA then calculates the PEK using the shared secret BAK the Cnonce along with the given AT s user credentials by applying the HMAC SHA 256 algorithm for the given AT s user e.g. resulting in the same PEK as calculated at the multimedia client A in and returns the calculated PEK to the provisioning server . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art one PEK is required per GSK update transaction. If multiple GSKs are to be encrypted for distribution to the given AT for different multicast groups the same PEK i.e. from and is used for encrypting each of the GSKs for that particular AT. Note that the same shared secret BAK could also be used to calculate the unicast client session key U CSK as shown in .

Upon receiving the PEK from the AAA the provisioning server retrieves information related to the given multicast group e.g. the multicast group s IP address the new or updated group seed and GSK time stored in the secret key SK etc. from the user group database . Then in the provisioning server generates the new GSK based on i the secret key SK known only to the provisioning server e.g. and available to the application server as well ii the group seed stored in and retrieved in and iii the group address for the given multicast group e.g. the group s SIP like Uniform Resource Locator . In an example the provisioning server can generate the GSK by applying a HMAC SHA256 algorithm as is known in the art.

The provisioning server then uses the PEK calculated by the AAA as the encryption key for the given AT to encrypt the new GSK . In an example the encryption of may be implemented by applying an Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithm in an electronic code book ECB mode as is known in the art. After encrypting the new GSK in the provisioning server sends one or more messages to the provisioning module B at the given AT that include i the encrypted GSK from ii the associated GSK time from iii a conference ID for the given multicast group e.g. retrieved in and iv the Cnonce that was initially supplied by the given AT in . As noted above if multiple GSKs are to be distributed to the given AT for more than one multicast group the one or more messages sent in will include multiple encrypted GSKs each with their own associated GSK times and a separate conference ID for each of the multicast groups. The Cnonce value is the same for each of the multicast groups and as such only one Cnonce value is included even in the case of multiple GSK distribution to a single AT.

After the provisioning module B receives the message s from the provisioning module B informs the multimedia client A of the GSK GSK time and conference ID of each updated multicast group as well as the Cnonce value . Upon receiving the encrypted GSK s from the provisioning module B in the multimedia client A determines whether the Cnonce value received in matches the Cnonce value generated in and sent to the provisioning module B in . If the multimedia client A determines the Cnonce values to match the multimedia client A decrypts each GSK for each updated multicast group using the PEK calculated in . The multimedia client A then stores each decrypted GSK and GSK time in association with the conference ID s of the related multicast group s . While not shown in the multimedia client B can then re register itself to the group multimedia service by sending a register message to the application server as shown in of and can decrypt multicast messages to one or more of the multicast groups with updated GSKs. Note that the Cnonce value from the client changes for every GSK update transaction. This ensures that PEK calculated for every transaction is different. As the GSK is encrypted using the PEK and since for each multimedia client the PEK is different the encrypted GSK is different for each client. This makes it difficult for an intruder to reverse engineer the GSK by collecting samples of the encrypted GSK at various GSK update instances by snooping on an AT because both the inputs to the encryption algorithm GSK and the PEK change every time.

A multicast communication session that uses unicast keys as in in conjunction with multicast keys or GSKs as in will now be described in more detail with respect to . In it may be assumed that the process of has executed at a call originator e.g. AT and at target ATs . . . N of the multicast communication session and that the process of has executed at ATs . . . N of the multicast communication session. Accordingly the call originator AT has a unicast client session key U CSK for authenticating the application signaling on a reverse link traffic channel R TCH to be forwarded to the application server . Based on the application signaling from the originator AT the application server delivers signaling to the target ATs . . . N the target ATs . . . N each have an up to date GSK by which ATs . . . N can authenticate the signaling messages from the application server and decrypt the forwarded or re transmitted multicast media from the application server and the application server is aware of both U CSKs for ATs . . . N and the up to date GSK for the multicast group.

Referring to the call originator AT applies a unicast authentication policy based on the U CSK to a call message and then sends the call message over the R TCH to the RAN which is then forwarded to the application server . In an example applying the unicast authentication policy means adding a digital signature to the call message using the U CSK as a key for the signature and sending this message to the application server . The application server receives the call message and attempts to authenticate the call message by applying the unicast authentication policy to the call message . For example the application server can check the digital signature of the call message and determine whether a correct U CSK was used to generate the digital signature. To avoid replay attacks the digital signature also uses a timestamp element as another input. The Timestamp element provides the time the signature at the time the message was generated and accounts for the transmission delay for the message to reach from the sender to the receiver and any drifts in the timing synchronization between the sender and the receiver. If the call message is not properly authenticated by the application server in the application server fails the call and ignores the message . Otherwise if the call message is authenticated by the application server in the application server applies the call admission policy for the requested multicast communication session . For example in the application server can confirm that AT is part of the multicast group to which the session has been requested and or can verify that the AT has the necessary capabilities like the multimedia types supported for the call and passes other call parameters like restrictions.

After applying the call admission policy in the application server applies the multicast authentication policy for the signaling based on the current GSK for the multicast session to an announce message for announcing the multicast session and then forwards the announce message to the RAN for transmission to target ATs . . . N . For example the application server can add a digital signature to the announce message using the GSK as a key for the signature and then the application server can send this message to the target group members on the multicast service. The announce message with the digital signature can be authenticated with the GSKs at the individual target group members.

Each of ATs . . . N use the common or shared GSK e.g. obtained by the process of to decrypt and or authenticate the multicast call announcement signaling message . When the multicast messages are encrypted the ATs use the GSK to decrypt the message. If authentication is enabled the ATs use the GSK along with the message to generate the digital signature and compare the digital signature received in the message to verify authentication. If the authentication of is not successful ATs . . . N ignore the message and do not respond to the multicast call announcement . Otherwise if the decryption and or authentication of is successful target ATs . . . N apply a call join policy . For example each of target ATs . . . N can prompt a user to determine whether or not the user wishes to join the announced multicast call. The call join policy may include checks for any restrictions against the call originator or the restrictions against a media type to be exchanged during the multicast session. When all checks are successful the user of ATs . . . N indicates a call join action call e.g. by present an accept call button ATs . . . N determine to join the call .

Accordingly ATs . . . N then initiate call join procedures and send one or more reverse link messages in order to join the call . The one or more reverse link messages intended for the application server include the digital signature generated using the message and the U CSKs that are specific to each of ATs . . . N in . Thus in an example of ATs . . . N may send an announce acknowledge accept message to the application server that is authentication in accordance with each of ATs . . . N individual U CSK. Also while not shown in ATs . . . N can also send a BCMCSFlowRegistration message to register with the RAN and the BCMCSFlowRegistration message is not forwarded to the application server and is not encrypted with the U CSK or GSK. Alternatively while not shown in some ATs may decide not to participate in the call based on the call join policy and may reject the call announcement by sending the announce reject message with the digital signature using their respective U CSK.

The application server receives the announce acknowledge accept messages from ATs . . . N and applies the unicast authentication policy to each received message from ATs . . . N as in with respect to AT . If any of the messages from ATs . . . N are not properly authenticated in the unauthenticated messages are ignored in . Otherwise the application server adds the requesting and properly authenticated ATs to the call in . Also after a first responder joins the call the application server indicates to call originator AT that AT has the floor and can begin speaking.

Accordingly AT begins transmitting call media on the R TCH to the RAN which is forwarded to the application server for transmission to the multicast group and encoded with the unicast authentication policy based on AT s U CSK and encrypted with the GSK using the AES algorithm in counter mode . The application server receives and attempts to authenticate the call media from AT . If the call media is not properly authenticated the application server ignores the media . Otherwise if the call media is properly authenticated the application server forwards a version of the call media that is encrypted with the multicast group s GSK to ATs . . . N . Note that the application server need not decrypt the media as the application server is merely forwarding the media to the target ATs. Each of ATs . . . N receives the GSK encrypted call media and applies the multicast authentication and encryption policy to the call media . If ATs . . . N do not properly authenticate the call media ATs . . . N ignore the call media . Otherwise if ATs . . . N properly authenticate the call media ATs . . . N decrypt the media using the multicast group s GSK and replay the decrypted media . Blocks through then repeat for a duration of the multicast session or at least for so long as AT remains a floor holder for the multicast session.

At some later point in time AT determines to terminate the multicast session and stop speaking . Accordingly AT generates a call termination message e.g. an END message applies the unicast authentication policy to the call termination message and then transmits the call termination message to the application server . At this point AT terminates the call .

The application server receives and attempts to authenticate the call termination message from AT . If the call termination message is not properly authenticated the application server ignores the call termination message . Otherwise if the call termination message is properly authenticated the application server forwards a version of the call termination message that is authenticated with the multicast group s GSK to ATs . . . N and then terminates the call . Each of ATs . . . N receives the GSK authenticated call termination message and applies the multicast authentication policy to the call termination message . If ATs . . . N do not properly authenticate the call termination message ATs . . . N ignore the call termination message . Otherwise if ATs . . . N properly authenticate the call termination message ATs . . . N terminate the call .

In the event the GSK is compromised and or a member is removed from the closed group the GSK for the groups is updated as shown in . As explained in the new GSK is effective only after the GSK time. The ATs and the application server store at least two 2 GSKs for each group namely one current GSK and at least one future GSK. After the GSK time for a new future GSK becomes effective the new future GSK replaces the current GSK and is used for authentication and encryption decryption. If the future GSK s time comes into effect in the middle of the call the ATs and the application server wait until the end of the call to replace the current GSK with the future GSK.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while illustrates a scenario where call originator AT remains the floor holder for the entirety of the multicast communication session in other embodiments of the invention the floor may be released and transferred to another AT at least once during the multicast communication session. In this case after the floor is re allocated blocks through may generally repeat for the new floor holder and its associated target ATs as shown in blocks through for AT as floor holder and ATs . . . N as target ATs respectively.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

