---

title: Repair of integrally bladed rotors
abstract: A method is provided for repairing a damaged rotor blade on an integrally bladed rotor by removing a damaged portion of a damaged blade leaving a blade stub extending outwardly from the disk and performing a linear friction welding operation to attach a replacement blade segment to the blade stub. The rotor may be disposed operation using a linear friction welding apparatus. The method includes disposing a support collar about the blade stub and securing the support collar to the linear friction welding apparatus prior to a commencement of the bonding operation. A lower surface of the support collar is contoured to mate with a portion of an outer circumference surface of the rotor disk.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08613138&OS=08613138&RS=08613138
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08613138
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100319
---
This application claims priority from and is a continuation in part of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 639 215 filed Dec. 16 2009 and entitled CONSUMABLE COLLAR FOR LINEAR FRICTION WELDING OF BLADE REPLACEMENT FOR DAMAGED INTEGRALLY BLADED ROTORS which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has certain rights in this disclosure pursuant to contract number F33657 03 D 0016 0010 between the United States Air Force and United Technologies Corporation.

This invention relates generally to integrally bladed rotors and more particularly to the application of linear fiction welding to the repair of damaged blades of integrally bladed rotors particularly integrally bladed rotors of the type not originally manufactured using linear friction welding techniques.

Gas turbine engines such as those used to power modern commercial aircraft or in industrial applications include a compressor for pressurizing a supply of air a combustor for burning a hydrocarbon fuel in the presence of the pressurized air and a turbine for extracting energy from the resultant combustion gases. Generally the compressor combustor and turbine are disposed about a central engine axis with the compressor disposed axially upstream of the combustor and the turbine disposed axially downstream of the combustor. For a turbofan gas turbine engine a large diameter fan is mounted to the engine shaft forward of the compressor. Air drawn into the engine passes axially through the fan and the compressor into the combustor wherein fuel is combusted in the air to generate and accelerate combustion gases which pass through the turbine and out the exhaust nozzle of the gas turbine engine. In the turbofan version of the gas turbine engine a portion of the air flow into the engine is delivered to the compressor to pass through the engine core while the remainder of the air passes through a bypass duct thereby bypassing the compressor and engine core.

The compressor and the turbine modules include a plurality of stages each stage including a plurality of blades mounted to a rotor disk mounted to a rotatable shaft. One or more stages of blades may be associated with a single rotor disc. In many gas turbine engines the compressor and or turbine rotors constitute integrally blade rotors IBR wherein the blades are machined from an oversized rotor disk forging metallurgically joined or solid state welded to a rotor disk rather than being mechanically secured to the rotor disk such as by a dove tail or fir tree blade root fit into a correspondingly shaped slot in the rotor disk. Consequently an integrally bladed rotor assembly is lighter than a conventional bladed root rotor assembly of comparable size.

However rotor blades are subject in service to damage from impact by foreign objects ingested into the engine commonly referred to as foreign object damage FOD . Rotor blades are also subject in service to damage from impact by pieces of broken or unsecured engine parts entrained in the air flow passing through the engine commonly referred to as domestic object damage DOD . Because of the position at the forward end of the gas turbine engine fan and compressor damages are particularly susceptible to foreign object damage as well as domestic object damage from pieces of blades broken off upstream blades. While minor damage may be repaired relatively easily by a process known in the art as blending blades that suffer significant damage from an FOD DOD event must be replaced.

Replacement of blades on integrally bladed rotors has proven to be troublesome. In a common repair method after an integrally bladed rotor having a damaged blade requiring replacement is removed from the engine the damaged portion of the damaged blade is removed leaving a blade stub projecting outwardly from the rotor disk. The blade is then restored by metallurgically bonding a replacement blade section to the blade stub. Although a number of variations of the aforedescribed method for repairing a damaged blade on an integrally bladed rotor have been proposed and tried in military and commercial applications consistently obtaining a structurally sound repair with original equipment manufacture properties has proven to be elusive. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 873 751 5 109 606 5 197 190 5 755 031 and 6 536 110 disclose various techniques for repairing damaged blades of integrally bladed rotors by welding a replacement blade section to a blade stub on the rotor. U.S. Pat. No. 6 354 482 discloses a linear friction welding apparatus suitable for use in bonding an airfoil to a rotor during manufacture of an integrally bladed rotor and U.S. Pat. No. 6 244 495 discloses a gripper for use in connection with a linear friction welding apparatus.

A method is provided for repairing a damaged rotor blade on an integrally bladed rotor using a linear friction welding apparatus the rotor having a disk and a plurality of blades extending outwardly from the disk by removing a damaged portion of the damaged blade leaving a blade stub extending outwardly from the rotor disk and attaching an undamaged replacement blade segment to the blade stub by a bonding operation on a linear friction welding apparatus. The method includes steps of disposing the rotor disk in a linear friction welding apparatus between a first holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus and a second holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus providing a support collar defining an internal cavity adapted to receive the blade stub in supporting relationship disposing the support collar in supporting relationship about the blade stub and securing the support collar to the linear friction welding apparatus.

The step of securing the support collar to the linear friction welding apparatus comprises securing a first end of the support collar to the first holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus and securing a second end of the support collar to the second holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus. The step of disposing the support collar in supporting relationship about the blade stub may include slipping a single piece support collar over the blade stub whereby the blade stub is received into the internal cavity of the support collar. The step of disposing the support collar in supporting relationship about the blade stub comprises assembling a two piece collar about the blade stub whereby the blade stub is received into the internal cavity of the support collar. The method may further include providing a support collar having a lower surface contoured to mate with a portion of an outer circumferential surface of the rotor disk.

Referring initially to of the drawing an exemplary embodiment of a turbofan gas turbine engine designated generally as is shown. The turbofan gas turbine engine includes from fore to aft a fan a compressor a combustor and a turbine disposed along a longitudinal axis . A nacelle forms a housing or wrap that surrounds the gas turbine engine to provide an aerodynamic housing about the gas turbine engine. In the turbofan gas turbine engine depicted in the drawings the nacelle includes from fore to aft the engine inlet the fan cowl the engine core cowl and the primary exhaust nozzle .

In operation of the turbofan gas turbine engine a portion of the air entering through the engine inlet passes through the compressor and another portion of the air passes though the fan duct defined between the fan cowl and the engine core cowl . In the combustor fuel is combusted in compressed air from the compressor thereby generating and accelerating high temperature combustion exhaust gases which pass through the turbine . In the turbine energy is extracted from the combustion exhaust gases to turn the turbine to drive the compressor and fan and also to produce thrust.

The compressor may include a low pressure compressor and a high pressure compressor . The turbine may include a high pressure turbine and a low pressure turbine . The fan and the low pressure compressor are mounted to a common shaft with the low pressure turbine and are driven by the low pressure turbine. The high pressure compressor is mounted to a common shaft with the high pressure turbine and is driven by the high pressure turbine .

The fan includes a rotor assembly formed of a row of a plurality of circumferentially spaced fan blades extending outwardly from a fan rotor disk. The low pressure compressor and the high pressure compressor include a plurality of compressor stages. Each compressor stage includes a stator section formed by a row of a plurality of circumferentially spaced stationary vanes followed by a rotor assembly formed by a row of a plurality of circumferentially spaced compressor blades extending outwardly from a rotor disk. The rotor assemblies of the fan and the low pressure compressor and the high pressure compressor may comprise integrally bladed rotors.

Referring now to there is depicted a linear friction welding apparatus for repairing an integrally bladed rotor including operational blades and a blade stub of a damaged blade from which the damaged airfoil section of the blade has been removed. The damaged blade stub is to be repaired by bonding a replacement blade segment i.e. a new airfoil section not shown in to the blade stub . The integrally blade rotor is shown mounted in the linear friction welding apparatus in position between a first holding portion and a second holding portion both of which are part of the superstructure of the linear friction welding apparatus . Generally prior to placement of the integrally bladed rotor in the linear friction welding apparatus the first step is to remove the damaged blade to a prescribed cut plane so as to remove the damaged segment of the blade airfoil and leave behind the blade stub . The segment of the blade to be removed may be removed by any non abusive machining technique or combination of techniques such as for example cutting grinding finishing or other technique that does not damage the blade stub and that leaves a prepared outboard surface on the blade stub to which the replacement blade airfoil segment may be suitably bonded using the linear friction welding apparatus .

As shown in the stub is provided with a consumable collar . The consumable collar may be made of the same material as the rotor and blade and is formed to have an internal cavity that is about the same size and shape of the blade stub in question. Rather than being formed of the same material the collar could also be made of a different material depending on engineering requirements. It is desirable that the maximum gaps between the cavity in the collar and the outer periphery of the blade be small e.g. 0.04 inch 1.02 mm or less .

As shown in the collar is mounted on the blade stub . The blade stub extends between a leading edge and a trailing edge . The collar supports the blade stub as a linear friction welding operation explained schematically with reference to is performed. In particular as shown in the linear friction welding includes moving a replacement blade segment for example new airfoil blank having a leading edge and a trailing edge rapidly relative to the blade stub with an axial compressive force and in a direction generally parallel to a dimension between the leading and trailing edges. By moving the airfoil and blade stub rapidly relative to each other heat is built up and the two sections weld together in the solid state. Generally the replacement blade segment is wrought as opposed to cast as a wrought replacement blade segment has a more desired grain structure and wrought OEM original equipment manufacture properties. The linear friction welding technique is known.

In the prior art there has been little support at the leading edge and trailing edge portions which come to very fine points in production blades. Thus there have been challenges at performing linear friction welding and particularly at the leading and trailing edges of a blade stub which does not have sufficient cross sectional area to be structurally stiff and stationary during linear friction welding. As an example the prior art had two unconnected collar portions at the leading and trailing edges. This did not provide adequate support. The lack of structural support during the linear friction welding process has particularly been an issue in the prior art when attempting to repair relatively small and or relatively thin blades on integrally bladed rotors designed for placement in the aft stages of the compressor of a gas turbine engine.

As can be appreciated from the collar provides additional structural support during the linear friction welding and thus results in a robust reliable bond being formed between the airfoil and the blade stub . To provide additional radial support during the linear friction welding process the lower surface of the collar may be contoured to fit and mate with a portion of the outer circumferential surface of the integrally bladed rotor .

As shown in the collar can be provided by two separate portions which when assembled fit around the blade stub . As shown in the collar may have portions with an internal cavity that actually extends above the blade stub . In this embodiment there will be material from the collar actually sitting between the blade stub and the airfoil blank in the final repaired rotor. It is to be understood however that if the design of the blade permits the collar may be a single piece collar defining an internal cavity having a continuous inner perimeter surface that can be slipped over the blade stub prior to commencement of the bonding step and can also be removed from the repaired blade.

As shown in it is also possible for the collar to be formed of separate portions and only supporting the leading and trailing edges and . As shown the two sub collars support the edges with unsupported portions at the outer circumference of the stub allowed between the two sub collar portions and . Thus a collar holder connects the leading and trailing edge sub collar portions and . In addition tooling may be provided to hold the collar support .

In general the collars are provided at both the leading and trailing edges of the airfoil. Some structure interconnects those collar sub portions. In some embodiments and the collar integrally connects the two. In other embodiments there are two separate collar sub portions that are connected together by a collar holding member. The collar may have enlarged regions about the leading and trailing edges of the airfoil for additional structural support. Further the collar may have sufficient height to exceed the prescribed linear friction weld burn off or to ensure that the collar itself will be at least partially consumed during the linear friction welding operation.

In the method as herein provided for replacing a damaged rotor blade on an integrally bladed rotor after the damaged portion of the damaged blade has been removed leaving a blade stub extending outwardly from the radially outboard surface of the rotor disk and prior to attaching an undamaged replacement blade segment to the blade stub by a bonding operation in the linear friction welding apparatus the rotor disk is disposed in the linear friction welding apparatus between the first holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus and the second holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus as illustrated in . A support collar defining an internal cavity adapted to receive the blade stub in supporting relationship is provided and disposed in supporting relationship about the blade stub .

As illustrated in with the support collar in position about the blade stub the support collar is secured to the linear friction welding apparatus . In the embodiment depicted therein a first end of the support collar is secured to the first holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus and a second end of the support collar is secured to the second holding portion of the linear friction welding apparatus . For example each end of the collar may secured to its respective holding portion by means of jigs respectively adapted to receive a respective end of the collar and to be secured to the holding portions respectively by removable fasteners such as bolts .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description not limitation. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention. Those skilled in the art will also recognize the equivalents that may be substituted for elements described with reference to the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example persons of skill in the art will recognize that although described with respect to a linear friction welding process the method and apparatus of the invention may be applicable with or without modification to other metallurgical bonding processes.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the exemplary embodiments as illustrated in the drawing it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it is intended that the present disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed as but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

