---

title: Methods and system for electrostatic discharge protection of thin-film transistor backplane arrays
abstract: The present invention provides devices and methods for testing the electrical performance of thin-film transistor backplane arrays and protecting thin-films during testing and handling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08884641&OS=08884641&RS=08884641
owner: Arizona Board of Regents, a Body Corporated of the State of Arizona Acting for and on Behalf of Arizona State University
number: 08884641
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100223
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 172 500 filed Apr. 24 2009 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This work was supported at least in part by U.S. Army Research Labs ARL Grant No. W911NF 04 2 005. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the testing of electrical devices. Specifically the invention relates to devices and methods for testing the electrical performance of thin film transistor backplane arrays used in a variety of display technologies.

A wide variety of electronic devices incorporate displays to present an image to a viewer. Made up of one or more transistors per pixel thin film transistor TFT backplane arrays can be used to activate the portions of a display that present an image to the viewer. Since the performance of a display is dependent upon the backplane array used to drive the display backplane arrays are typically tested to identify electrical defects such as short circuits open circuits or other manufacturing defects.

One known method of testing backplane arrays includes connecting one or more wires to each transistor in each pixel element of a backplane array. In high resolution displays comprising hundreds of thousands or even millions of transistors the addition of these wires can significantly increase the cost and complexity of the backplane array. In applications where the space provided for a backplane array is limited the need to include additional wires or other connections to each transistor can severely limit the number of transistors that can be included in the backplane array and thus the number of pixel elements that can be used in the display.

In a first aspect the present invention provides devices for testing a thin film transistor TFT backplane array comprising i a first decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of row connections on the thin film transistor backplane array and ii a second decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of column connections on the thin film transistor backplane array. In this first aspect the decoders may also be located on the same substrate as the thin film transistor backplane array.

The devices of the first aspect may be used with thin film transistor backplane arrays used to drive pixel elements in displays. For example the devices of the first aspect may be used with thin film transistor backplane arrays used to drive electrophoretic displays liquid crystal displays or organic LED displays.

In a second aspect the present invention provides devices for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i a first decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of row connections on the thin film transistor backplane array ii a second decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of column connections on the thin film transistor backplane array and iii an electrical component capable of providing a severable electrical connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device. The devices of the second aspect may be configured such that the first portion of the device to which a severable connection is made is a decoder address line. The devices of this aspect may also be configured such that the first portion of the device to which a severable connection is made is a decoder bias line. Further the decoders included in the second aspect may be configured such that the first portion of the device is a decoder address line and the second portion of the device is a decoder bias line. In such a configuration an electrical component is capable of providing a severable connection between a decoder address line and a decoder bias line.

In the devices of the second aspect the electrical component capable of providing a severable connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device comprises a fuse. In other embodiments of the devices of the second aspect the electrical component providing a severable connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device comprises an electrostatic discharge protection component. In some embodiments of devices of this aspect that include an electrostatic discharge protection component the electrostatic discharge protection component establishes an electrical connection between at least two portions of the device in response to the presence of an electrical current with a magnitude greater than a predetermined level. In other embodiments of devices of this aspect that include an electrostatic discharge protection component the electrostatic discharge protection component establishes an electrical connection between at least two portions of the device in response to the presence of a voltage with a magnitude greater than a predetermined level.

In a third aspect the present invention provides methods for testing thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder to address one or more pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array ii measuring an electrical current drawn from a supply and iii correlating the measured electrical current to an electrical defect in the thin film transistor backplane array. In implementations of the methods of this aspect the methods may further comprise activating a second decoder to address one or more pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array. In example implementations of methods where two decoders are used the decoders can be used to activate a single pixel a row of pixels a column of pixels a plurality of pixels or even all of the pixels in display.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder and a second decoder to address a plurality of pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array and ii optically evaluating the plurality of pixels. The methods of this aspect may further comprise disconnecting the first decoder and the second decoder from the thin film transistor backplane array upon completion of a test of the thin film transistor backplane array.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder to address a pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array ii activating a second decoder to address the pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array iii measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array iv determining whether the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level and v responsive to a determination that the electrical current exceeds a predetermined level activating a fuse to sever an electrical connection between a portion of the thin film transistor backplane array and another electrical component. In some example implementations of the methods of the fifth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical current. In other example implementations of the methods of the fifth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical voltage.

In a sixth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder to address a pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array ii activating a second decoder to address the pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array iii measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array iv determining whether the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level and v responsive to a determination that the electrical current exceeds a predetermined level establishing an electrical connection that electrically bypasses the pixel element. In some example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical current. In other example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical voltage.

Any of the methods of the present invention may be implemented by a computer program and may be carried out using any of the devices according to any aspect and embodiment of the present invention.

In a first aspect the present invention provides devices for testing a thin film transistor TFT backplane array comprising i a first decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of row connections on the thin film transistor backplane array and ii a second decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of column connections on the thin film transistor backplane array.

As used herein the term thin film transistor backplane array refers to any array of transistors formed by depositing thin films of material over a substrate. While the embodiments described herein are primarily directed towards thin film transistor backplane arrays that are used to activate the pixel elements in displays the claimed devices and methods may be used with any thin film transistor backplane array. In thin film transistor backplane arrays that activate pixel elements in a display an image can be formed and changed by selectively applying voltages to one or more transistors. In some implementations of thin film transistor backplane arrays each transistor is electrically connected to its own set of dedicated control lines. In arrays that comprise thousands or even millions of transistors the dedicated control lines for each transistor can introduce additional complexity and bulk to the array. Such additional complexity and bulk is compounded if a separate set of dedicated control lines are added to facilitate testing of the display.

In many thin film transistor backplane arrays a plurality of transistors is arranged into a series of rows and columns. In such arrays one terminal of all of the transistors in a given row can be electrically coupled together to form a row connection and a second terminal of all of the transistors in a given column can be electrically coupled together to form a column connection such that a particular transistor or group of transistors may be selectively activated by applying an electrical signal to the appropriate row connection and column connection. In accordance with the devices of the first aspect of the invention a first decoder is electrically coupled to each of the plurality of row connections and a second decoder is electrically coupled to each of the plurality of column connections.

As used herein the term decoder refers to any component capable of coupling one or more input signal connections to a plurality of output signal connections in response to an address the address presented as a series of binary signals. Any method of electrically coupling the decoders to the appropriate row and column connections may be used. For example the decoders may be integrated into the thin film transistor backplane array such that the array and the decoders are formed as part of the same manufacturing process. Alternatively the decoders may be manufactured separately from the array and later coupled to the array using electrical couplings and or solder for example.

In this first aspect the first and or second decoders may be 1 N decoders where a single input connection can be coupled to one or more of the plurality of output connections present on the decoder denoted by the term N . In some example embodiments N equals the number of row or column connections available on the thin film transistor backplane array that the decoder may connect with. In an example embodiment of a decoder the decoder may be controlled by one or more address lines. When a particular address value is applied to the address lines the decoder responds by coupling one or more inputs to the output connection or connections associated with the particular address value.

The first and or second decoders may also be 2 N 3 N or higher order decoders. In implementations where the decoder is a 2 N 3 N or higher order decoder the decoder can be used to provide a plurality of selectable voltages currents or signals to the row and or column connections of the backplane array. For example a 2 N or higher order decoder may be implemented to provide guard connections to one or more portions of an array or may be used to provide a selectable bias level. For example a row or column adjacent to a row or column under test could be held at an alternate potential such as reverse bias. In other implementations a neutral or zero potential or a guard and or a test bias could also be among the selectable potentials available in implementations using higher order decoders.

The decoders of the devices of this first aspect may be constructed from any of a variety of materials. In decoders that utilize transistors or other semi conducting devices any materials that can be used to form semiconductors can be used to form the decoders. In an example embodiment the decoders may be constructed such that at least a portion of the first decoder and or at least a portion of the second decoder comprise amorphous silicon. In other examples materials such as polysilicon microcrystalline silicon other semiconductors and or metal oxides and or organic materials can be used to form the decoders.

The decoders may be fabricated on any substrate used in the fabrication of thin film transistor backplane arrays. For example glass flexible steel silicon the flexible plastic PEN polyethylene napthalate and other substrate materials may be used. While in some implementations the decoders may be fabricated on the same substrate as the backplane array the decoders may also be fabricated on a different substrate and later integrated with the backplane array.

Further since in some implementations the decoders are not intended to be permanently functional components the decoders can be operated at voltages that would be otherwise unsuitable for the transistors within the backplane array. Operating the decoders at higher voltages may allow for additional output from the decoders and allow the use of smaller transistors within the decoder.

The devices of the first aspect may be used with thin film transistor backplane arrays used to drive pixel elements in displays. For example the devices of the first aspect may be used with thin film transistor backplane arrays used to drive electrophoretic displays liquid crystal displays organic LED displays or other varieties of displays now known or developed later.

In a second aspect the present invention provides devices for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i a first decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of row connections on the thin film transistor backplane array ii a second decoder electrically coupled to each of the plurality of column connections on the thin film transistor backplane array and iii an electrical component capable of providing a severable electrical connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device. In this aspect any of the decoders that may be included in the devices of the first aspect may be included in the devices of the second aspect.

The devices of the second aspect may be configured such that the first portion of the device to which a severable connection is made is a decoder output line. As used herein a decoder output line is any electrical connection between an output of a decoder and a row or column connection on the thin film transistor backplane array. Those skilled in the art will understand that a decoder may couple a single line or node to one or more nodes under the control of one or more address lines. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the terms input and output will be understood in light of the application involving a decoder and may be interpreted in light of the direction of current flow and or signal flow.

The devices of this aspect may also be configured such that the first portion of the device to which a severable connection is made is a decoder bias line. As used herein the term decoder bias line refers to any connection between a voltage supply and an input connection of a decoder. Further the decoders of the second aspect may be configured such that the first portion of the device is a decoder address line and the second portion of the device is a decoder bias line. In such a configuration an electrical component is capable of providing a severable connection between a decoder address line and a decoder bias line.

In the devices of the second aspect the electrical component capable of providing a severable connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device comprises a fuse. Various fuse devices may be used in the devices of the second aspect. For example a two terminal fuse may be used where the first terminal of the fuse is electrically coupled to one portion of the circuit and the second terminal of the fuse is electrically coupled to another portion of the circuit. In another example a three terminal fuse may be used.

The fuses used in this aspect may serve a number of purposes. In one example embodiment fuses are added to the thin film transistor backplane array to prevent damage due to the discharge of electricity during the manufacture and assembly of the array and the overall display. This can be achieved by using fuses to connect multiple row and column connections together and or to a ground connection. In some configurations that protect the array during the manufacturing and assembly the fuses can be removed before testing the array. In other configurations the fuses may remain in place throughout a test. The fuses can also be oriented to prevent the decoders from supplying too much power or applying too much current to the array. Further fuses can be used to form the electrical connection between the decoders and the row and column connections on the array. In such configurations opening the fuses upon the completion of a test may facilitate the removal of the decoders.

In example embodiments comprising a three terminal fuse the three terminal fuse is configured such that a first terminal of the fuse is electrically coupled to one portion of the circuit with a severable connection formed between the first portion of the circuit and a second terminal of the fuse. A second severable connection is formed between the second terminal of the fuse and the third terminal of the fuse which is in turn connected to a second portion of the circuit. In this configuration a surge in voltage or current that causes the first severable connection of the fuse to open is passed to the second severable connection of the fuse which then opens. As a result the fuse prevents damage to the portions of the circuit it is connected to such as the transistors in the thin film transistor backplane array by ensuring that the protected portions of the circuit are not exposed to abnormally high voltages or currents. In configurations where the three terminal fuse must be removed before a test can be performed the three terminal fuse structure reduces the likelihood that the power applied to open the fuses will damage the array.

In example implementations of a three terminal fuse the two severable connections within the fuse may be sized differently to enable the severable connections to sever under different conditions. For example a first severable connection may be sized smaller than the second severable connection. In this configuration the smaller severable connection may sever in the presence of a lower current than the second severable connection and may sever first in the presence of a current that is sufficient to cause both connections to sever. By sizing the severable connections differently the order in which the severable connections sever may be preselected during design and fabrication of the particular three terminal fuse.

In example implementations of a three terminal fuse a severable connection is constructed by forming a necked down region within the device where a conductive path within the device is shaped to be thinner or narrower or otherwise uses less conductive material than the conductive paths within the adjacent portions of the device. The necked down region is configured such that when a current above a predetermined threshold is passed through the device the current density within the device is greatest in a necked down region. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the increase in current density within the necked down region may increase the resistive heating experienced within the necked down region. This increase in current density and the resulting increase in resistive heating can cause the conductor within the necked down region to evaporate or boil away and cause an open electrical circuit.

The three terminal fuses may also be used for current sensing within a portion of a circuit. For example if the fuse has a known resistance a voltage across the fuse can be measured and correlated to a current. In implementations where the severable connections within a three terminal fuse are configured to sever at different currents an approximation of the current can be determined by observing whether both severable connections remain intact one of the severable connections has severed while the second remains intact or both severable connections have severed.

In other embodiments of the devices of the second aspect the electrical component providing a severable connection between a first portion of the device and a second portion of the device comprises an electrostatic discharge protection component. In some embodiments of devices of this aspect that include an electrostatic discharge protection component the electrostatic discharge protection component establishes an electrical connection between at least two portions of the device in response to the presence of an electrical current with a magnitude greater than a predetermined level. In other embodiments of devices of this aspect that include an electrostatic discharge protection component the electrostatic discharge protection component establishes an electrical connection between at least two portions of the device in response to the presence of a voltage with a magnitude greater than a predetermined level. In some example embodiments the electrostatic discharge protection device normally appears as an open circuit and does not allow electrical signals to pass through the electrostatic discharge protection device under normal operating conditions. In such examples embodiments the electrostatic discharge protection device forms a closed circuit when an abnormally high voltage or current is detected and can be used to direct the abnormally high voltage or current away from sensitive circuit components.

In example embodiments of devices of the second aspect the electrostatic discharge protection device may be formed using a plurality of field effect transistors. The plurality of transistors may be electrically connected such that the drain of one transistor is connected to the source of a second transistor and the gates of one or more transistors are connected to the nodes formed by the connection of the drains and sources of the transistors.

In example embodiments of devices of the second aspect the electrostatic discharge protection devices may be configured to break down and conduct electricity in the presence of an electrical potential that is lower than the electrical potential required for other transistors within the array to break down. For example if the other transistors break down at a voltage greater than 200 volts the electrostatic discharge protection devices can be configured and constructed to break down at 200 volts or less and thus can protect the rest of the array by diverting potentially damaging electrical signals away from sensitive portions of the array before the transistors within the array are subjected to electrical potentials that could cause the transistors to break down.

In example embodiments of devices of the second aspect at least as portion of the first decoder and at least a portion of the second decoder may comprise amorphous silicon. Any of the materials and configurations used in the decoders described in the first aspect of the invention may be used for decoders included in devices of the second aspect. Exemplary embodiments of devices in accordance with the second aspect of the invention may include decoders that comprise amorphous silicon and are configured such that i the first decoder is a 1 N decoder ii the second decoder is a 1 N decoder and iii the electrical component capable of providing a severable connection between the first portion of the device and the second portion of the device comprises a fuse. In example devices with a first and a second decoder the decoders may have the same number of output connections or different numbers of output components. For example the first decoder may be a 1 N decoder and the second decoder may be a 1 M decoder where N and M may be different numbers. In other example devices that comprise amorphous silicon the devices are configured such that i the first decoder is a 1 N decoder ii the second decoder is a 1 N decoder and iii the electrical component capable of providing a severable connection between the first portion of the device and the second portion of the device comprises an electrostatic discharge protection component.

In a third aspect the present invention provides methods for testing thin film transistor backplane arrays comprising i activating a first decoder to address one or more pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array ii measuring an electrical current drawn from a supply and iii correlating the measured electrical current to an electrical defect in the thin film transistor backplane array. Any of the decoders described in the first and second aspects of the invention may be used in the methods of the third aspect and any technique for activating the first decoder may be used. For example a control signal such as a digital control signal or an analog control signal may be applied by a test operator to the input of the decoder. In another example the decoder may be configured such that one or more row or column connections in the array are always addressed. In yet another example a computer may be coupled to the decoder and software instructions executed by the computer may be used to activate the decoder. In example implementations of methods where two decoders are used both decoders may be activated to address a single pixel a row of pixels a column of pixels a plurality of pixels or even all of the pixels in display.

Any method of measuring a current drawn from a supply may be used in accordance with the methods of this aspect. For example a current meter may be inserted between the current supply and another portion of the thin film transistor backplane array. Alternatively a current meter may be integrated into the current supply. As another example a voltage measurement may be converted mathematically to determine the current drawn from the supply. In an example implementation of the method a resistor with a known resistance is electrically connected in series between the current supply and the array and the current drawn from the supply is determined by dividing a voltage measured across the resistor by the known resistance. In implementations of the methods of this aspect the methods may further comprise activating a second decoder to address one or more pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array.

To correlate the measured electrical current to an electrical defect in the thin film transistor backplane array the measured electrical current may be compared to a set of reference measurements for the thin film transistor backplane array. The set of reference measurements may include expected current readings that indicate the proper performance of one or more transistors within the array and may also include ranges of readings that indicate particular faults within the array. For example the set of reference measurements may include expected current responses of a transistor with an abnormal short circuit between two terminals an abnormal open circuit condition and or a variety of other abnormalities that may arise during the manufacturing processing and handling of the thin film transistor backplane array.

In some implementations of the methods of this aspect the method may further comprise disconnecting the first decoder and the second decoder from the thin film transistor backplane array. In such example implementations the decoders may be disconnected from the backplane array after the completion of a test reducing or eliminating the need for the packaging of the display to accommodate the decoders. For example if a decoder is positioned adjacent to the array the decoder may be cut away from the array. As another example if the decoder is connected to the array via electrical couplings the decoder may be disconnected by removing the couplings.

In the methods of the third aspect correlating the measured electrical current to an electrical defect in the thin film transistor backplane array may further comprise identifying an electrical defect in a specific pixel in the thin film transistor backplane array. For example an operator or computer that is running a test of a display may correlate the measured current with a particular transistor that was addressed at the time the current was measured and identify the pixel that is driven by the faulty transistor. In addition to identifying that an electrical defect is present in a particular pixel the method may also comprise classifying the electrical defect. As described above the measured current may indicate that there is a short circuit between one or more of the terminals of a transistor in a pixel element an open circuit where an electrical connection should be present or a variety of other defects that may arise during the manufacturing processing and handling of a thin film transistor backplane array. These electrical defects may be further correlated to a performance characteristic of the pixel element. For example one type of electrical defect may cause a pixel element to remain on while a second type of electrical defect may cause a pixel element to remain off and a third type of defect may cause a pixel to operate intermittently or unpredictably.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder and a second decoder to address a plurality of pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array and ii optically evaluating the plurality of pixels. Any of the decoders described herein or that may be used with any other the other aspects of the present invention may be used in example implementations of the methods of this aspect. Further any of the methods for activating the decoders described herein or that may be used with any of the other methods of the present invention may be used to activate the decoders in the methods of this aspect.

The plurality of pixels may be optically evaluated in a number of different ways. In one example implementation the thin film transistor backplane array is electrically coupled to a plurality of pixel elements in a display to allow the transistors to drive the pixel elements. As one or more transistors within the array are activated the performance of the pixel elements can be observed to determine if the display is performing properly.

In example implementations of the methods of the fourth aspect the methods may also comprise activating the first decoder and the second decoder to address a plurality of pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array to form a predetermined image. In such implementations optically evaluating the plurality of pixels may comprise comparing the predetermined image formed by the addressed pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array to a reference image. For example the reference image may be a test pattern a collection of letters or symbols or any other image that can be formed on the display. In implementations that include comparing the predetermined image formed by the addressed pixels to a reference image the methods may further comprise i detecting a difference between the formed image and the reference image and ii responsive to the detection of a difference between the predetermined image formed by the addressed pixels in the thin film transistor backplane array and the reference image correlating the detected difference to an electrical defect in a pixel in the thin film transistor backplane array.

Any method for detecting a difference between the formed image and the reference image may be used. For example an optical scanner may be used to view the image formed during a test and compare the formed image to the reference image. In another example an operator may manually compare the image formed during a test to a copy of the reference image. To correlate a detected difference to an electrical defect in the array the detected difference may be compared to a set of known failure characteristics as described above.

The methods of the fourth aspect may further comprise identifying the location of a pixel with an electrical defect and responsive to identifying the location of a pixel with an electrical defect adjusting either the first decoder or the second decoder such that the pixel with an electrical defect is not addressed. For example the location of the pixel with an electrical defect can be identified by recording which transistor or transistors were addressed when an abnormal condition was identified. Once the address of a potentially problematic transistor is identified either or both of the decoders may be adjusted by changing a control signal sent to the input of a decoder for example. Alternatively adjusting the first decoder and the second decoder such that the pixel with an electrical defect is not addressed may comprise severing an electrical connection between the thin film transistor backplane array and a portion of either the first decoder or the second decoder. In an example implementation where a fuse is placed in series between an output connection of the decoder and a row or column connection the fuse could be selectively opened to sever the electrical connection between the decoder and the row or column that contains a defective component. Alternatively the electrical connection between a portion of the decoder and the array may be severed by cutting the electrical connection or any other method of disconnecting two points in a circuit.

As described above the methods of this aspect may further comprise disconnecting the first decoder and the second decoder from the thin film transistor backplane array upon completion of a test of the thin film transistor backplane array.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder to address a pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array ii activating a second decoder to address the pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array iii measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array iv detecting whether the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level and v responsive to a detection that the electrical response exceeds a predetermined level activating a fuse to sever an electrical connection between a portion of the thin film transistor backplane array and another electrical component.

Any of the decoders described herein and any of the decoders that may be used in other aspects of the invention may be used in this aspect of the invention. Further the decoders may be activated to address a pixel element in accordance with any of the methods that may be used with any aspect of the present invention. In addition measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array can be done in accordance with any of the methods described herein or known to those skilled in the art. In some example implementations of the methods of the fifth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical current. In other example implementations of the methods of the fifth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical voltage.

Detecting that the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level can be performed by a fuse such as any of the fuses described herein and the predetermined level of the electrical response can be set as one of the construction parameters of the fuse. In response to an abnormally high voltage or current within the array the fuse singulates and breaks the electrical connection between the portions of the circuit that were previously connected by the fuse. 

In a sixth aspect the present invention provides methods for testing a thin film transistor backplane array comprising i activating a first decoder to address a pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array ii activating a second decoder to address the pixel element within the thin film transistor backplane array iii measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array iv determining whether the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level and v responsive to a determination that the electrical current exceeds a predetermined level establishing an electrical connection that electrically bypasses the pixel element. In some example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical current. In other example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical voltage.

Any of the decoders described herein and any of the decoders that may be used in other aspects of the invention may be used in this aspect of the invention. Similarly the decoders may be activated to address a pixel element in accordance with any method that may be used with any aspect of the present invention. In addition measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array can be done in accordance with any of the methods described herein or known to those skilled in the art. In some example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical current. In other example implementations of the methods of the sixth aspect measuring an electrical response within the thin film transistor backplane array comprises measuring an electrical voltage.

Detecting that the magnitude of the measured electrical response exceeds a predetermined level can be performed by an electrostatic discharge protection component such as any of the electrostatic discharge protection components described herein and the predetermined level of the electrical response can be set as one of the construction parameters of the electrostatic discharge protection component. When an abnormally high voltage or current is detected within the array the electrostatic discharge protection component can activate to establish a new electrical connection between the portions of the circuit that were previously not connected to bypass a problematic element within the thin film transistor backplane array.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in a thin film transistor backplane array the thin film transistors within the array may be sized and constructed to meet a set of desired performance characteristics for the display. For example the array may have a desired service life that extends for a period of time well beyond the time necessary to test the array and incorporate the array into another device. However in example implementations of the devices and methods described herein test structures including the decoders fuses electrostatic discharge protection devices may be considered temporary structures in the sense that they may be removed after the testing or manufacturing process. Thus in such example implementations the decoders fuses electrostatic discharge protection devices and other test structures may be constructed to only survive the testing process allowing for smaller sizing of the transistors used for testing the array. Further in implementations where the testing structures are considered temporary transistors that degrade under electrical stress such as transistors that incorporate amorphous silicon may be used. Also in such example implementations the transistors in a decoder may be overdriven or otherwise operated in a manner that would result in the failure of a transistor because the transistor within the testing structure does not need to survive the test and the transistor within the testing structure may be fabricated in a manner that ensures it would fail before a properly constructed transistor within the array would fail.

Any of the methods of the present invention may be implemented by a computer program and may be carried out using any of the devices according to any aspect and embodiment of the present invention. The computer program may be implemented in software or in hardware or a combination of both hardware and software.

Referring now to the figures depicts a simplified schematic diagram of device for testing a thin film transistor backplane array . As shown in thin film transistor backplane array comprises a plurality of pixel elements such as pixel element arranged in a plurality of rows and columns. While the thin film transistor backplane array depicted in is suitable for use in an LCD display any type of thin film transistor backplane array used to drive any type of display may be incorporated into device .

Decoders and are electrically coupled to thin film transistor backplane array . Decoder may be referred to as a row decoder and is electrically coupled to the row connections of thin film transistor backplane array . Decoder may be referred to as a column decoder and is electrically coupled to the column connections of thin film transistor backplane array . As depicted in the number of output connections available on decoder may be equal to the number of row connections on thin film transistor backplane array and the number of output connections available on decoder may be equal to the number of column connections on thin film transistor backplane array . However the number of output connections available on either or both of decoders and may not match the number of available row or column connections.

In implementations where the number of available output connections exceeds the number of available row and or column connections on the thin film transistor backplane array the extra decoder output connections may be electrically connected to other portions of the backplane array may be electrically connected to other circuit elements or may be left unconnected. In implementations where the number of available output connections is less than the number of available row and or column connections the output connections on decoders and or may be electrically connected to a subset of the available row and or column connections.

Both decoders and can be activated by applying one or more electrical control signals to the inputs of the decoders and or . The signals can be used to cause the decoder to apply an electrical voltage and or current to one or more of the row and column connections in backplane array . In an example embodiment each row connection and each column connection in backplane array can be identified by an address that can be expressed as a digital number. When control voltages corresponding to a desired address are applied to the inputs of decoder or a voltage is applied by the activated decoder to the row or column at the desired address. As shown in decoders and are activated by control signals that correspond to the address of the desired row or column and the digital inverse of the desired row or column. However any method of activating a decoder may be used.

Pixel element is the pixel element located at the intersection of the selected row and the selected column in backplane array and is activated. In the absence of a defect pixel element draws a known electrical current which can be detected and measured by current sensor . However as shown in there is a short circuit in pixel element causing an electrical connection between the drain of the transistor in pixel element and ground. If a short circuit such as short circuit is present in the pixel element the pixel element will draw a different amount of current. Consequently by comparing the current drawn by activated pixel element to the expected current draw the presence of the short circuit can be detected.

As with activating one or more rows and one or more columns in backplane array causes a known electrical current to be drawn from the voltage supply and the drawn current can be detected and measured by current sensor . As depicted in short circuit is a defect in backplane . If the short circuit is present in backplane array the current drawn by backplane array will differ from the known current allowing for the detection of short circuit .

Like depicts a portion of device comprising backplane array pixel element row decoder column decoder voltage supply and current sensor . In the configuration shown in all of the pixel elements in a selected row of backplane array are activated and the activated pixel elements draw an electrical current which can be detected and measured with current sensor . Short circuits and are present in two of the pixel elements of the selected row and both establish electrical connections between the row connection of the selected row and ground. When the selected row is activated short circuits and cause the current drawn by backplane array to deviate from a known current. Such a deviation can be detected and measured by current sensor . As with short circuits and shown in short circuits and are shown as the same type of defect. However because all of the pixels within the row have been activated the short circuits and cannot be localized to any specific pixels by analysis of the measurements provided by current sensor .

Defect is a short circuit present between the gate and source terminals of one of the transistors in array and defect is a short circuit between the addressed column line in array and the addressed row line in array . If either or both of defect or defect is present in an addressed row and or column the current detected by current sensor will deviate from a known or expected value indicating the presence of a defect within the backplane array . The notation Opt. VDD indicates that the VDD connection within the array can optionally be coupled to the indicated ground terminal or left floating. Skilled artisans will appreciate that electrical paths responsive to defects coupling the VDD lines within the array to other elements of the array will be introduced by the Opt. VDD connection.

In all of the pixel elements in one of the rows of array have been activated by decoders and . As depicted in defects and are short circuits between the sources of transistors with array and the addressed row in array . as with the other defects described herein the presence of defect and or defect causes the current drawn by the array to deviate by an amount that can be detected by current sensor . Analogous to the descriptions provided supra in regard to the configuration shown in is limited to detection of any of the defects and without localization to a specific pixel in the row selected.

In all of the pixel elements in one of the columns in array have been addressed by decoders and . As depicted in defects and are short circuits between the addressed column line and VDD. As with the other defects described herein the presence of defect and or defect causes the current drawn by the array to deviate by an amount that can be detected by current sensor indicating the presence of the defects and of . Analogous to the descriptions provided supra in regard to the configuration shown in is limited to detection of any of the defects and without localization to a specific pixel in the row selected.

To remove the fuses power supply and inductors and are used to apply power in excess of the rating of the fuses to fuses and . As shown in one terminal of power supply is connected to one terminal of fuse via inductor and is also connected to one terminal of fuse through inductor . The other terminal of power supply is coupled via inductor to the node formed by the electrical connection between fuses and .

When a sufficient amount of power is applied one of fuses and will open as depicted in . As a result the full power from power supply will be applied across the remaining fuse shown as fuse in and open as shown in . In this configuration the full power of the power supply used to open fuses and is never applied to the thin film transistor backplane array and thus reduces the likelihood of damage occurring during the fuse removal process.

In the following discussions of it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that mosfet transistors may be configured as symmetrical devices and consequently the interchange of terminals named source and drain may have no effect on the operation of the device. In conventional nomenclature a conventional electrical current is presumed to flow into the source terminal of a PMOS transistor and out from the source terminal of an NMOS transistor. However in some applications and configurations such as a passgate control current may flow in both directions through the devices comprising a particular configuration. Thus while the terms source and drain are applied in the discussion of it is to be understood that the application of the terms is not intended as limiting with respect to the direction of current through a device. Rather the direction of current is to be understood on the basis of the bias potential applied to the device terminals.

In an exemplary use of electrostatic discharge protection device node which is formed by the connection of the gate and source of transistor and the drain of transistor is electrically connected to a first portion of a circuit. Node which is formed by the connection of the drain of transistor and the gate and source of transistor is connected to a second portion of the circuit. In the absence of a voltage or current in excess of the rating of electrostatic discharge protection device the device does not allow electrical signals to flow from node to node . However if a voltage in excess of the rating of electrostatic discharge protection device is applied across nodes and the device allows electrical signals to flow between node and and placing nodes and at approximately the same electrical potential.

In another example implementation of electrostatic discharge device the transistor geometries for each of transistors are configured to control the order in which the transistors break down and conduct electricity when subjected to a voltage or current. In one example implementation transistor is constructed such that the ratio of the channel width of transistor to the channel length of transistor is greater than one. Transistor may also be configured such that the channel length of transistor is less than a standard channel length of the transistors within an array. Transistor may be constructed such that the ratio of its channel width to its channel length is less than one and that its channel length is longer than a standard channel length. In this example configuration transistor may be sized similarly to transistor and transistor may be sized similarly to transistor . By sizing the transistors differently the transistors break down under different conditions and at different voltages.

In an exemplary use of electrostatic discharge protection device node is electrically connected to a first portion of a circuit and node is connected to a second portion of the circuit. In the absence of a voltage or current in excess of the rating of electrostatic discharge protection device the device does not allow electrical signals to flow from node to node . If a voltage in excess of the rating of electrostatic discharge protection device is applied across nodes and the device establishes an electrical connection between the nodes and placing the two nodes and at approximately the same electrical potential.

In an example use of device a bias is applied across nodes and such that those skilled in the art would consider node to be a negative terminal and node to be a positive terminal. In this example use transistor may be configured such that its channel length is less than a standard length and its channel width to channel length ratio is greater than one. Transistor may be configured such that its channel length is longer than a standard length and its channel width to channel length ratio is less than one. In this reverse bias case transistor will break down at a lower electrical potential because it has a shorter channel. After transistor breaks down transistor acts as a series resistor and limits the current that can pass through device which may prevent transistor from self destructing in the presence of a high electrical potential.

In another example use of device a bias is applied across notes and such that those skilled in the art would consider node to be a positive terminal and node to be a negative terminal. In this configuration transistor is in forward bias and transistor is in reverse bias. If transistor is configured such that it has a longer channel and the ratio of its channel width to channel length is less than one transistor will resist breakdown and may prevent leakage current in the system.

In an example implementation the arrangement of fuses and electrical contacts may be used to establish electrical connections between all or most of the row and column connections of a thin film transistor backplane array and protect the pixel elements in the array from damage due to electrostatic discharges that may occur during the manufacture movement and or assembly.

In an example implementation the arrangement of electrical contacts and electrostatic discharge devices may be used to protect the pixel elements of a thin film transistor backplane array during testing. For example if an excessive current is drawn by one or more transistors within an array one or more of electrostatic discharge devices will establish an electrical connection between one or more of electrical contacts and may divert the excessive current away from array.

During fabrication and at other times during the manufacturing of a display shorting bar acts to tie all of the input connections on row connection terminals and column connection terminals together placing them all at the same electrical potential and preventing inadvertent electrical discharges from damaging the array . As shown in by line the shorting bar may also be electrically connected to one or more ground connections such as the ground connections associated with array and decoder . However in order to drive individual row column and pixel elements of array as described supra by applying signals through row terminal connections and column terminal connections the shorting bar must be removed. Prior to removing shorting bar each of the plurality of three terminal fuses and are singulated severing the electrical connection between the shorting bar and the decoders and . As described above the order in which the severable connections in the three terminal fuses and can be controlled to ensure that potentially damaging currents do not flow into any of the row terminal connections and column terminal connections . After the fuses and have been singulated the shorting bar can be cut away or otherwise physically removed as shown in . Alternately since the shorting bar has been electrically de coupled from the all of the row terminal connections and column terminal connections except for the row common terminal the shorting bar could be optionally left in place while testing proceeds. Skilled artisans will further appreciate that an additional fuses could be incorporated into the common terminal connections to electrically sever the common terminal from the shorting bar or to electrically sever the common terminal serving a single row.

In shorting bar has been removed while fuses and continue to prevent excessive currents from passing from the outputs of the row terminal connections and column terminal connections into the array . During a test fuses and may remain in place and provide protection to array . Upon completion of the test selected fuses and may be singulated severing the electrical connections between array and specific row terminal connections and column terminal connections . The fuses selected to be severed are chosen so as to electrically isolate any of rows and columns in array which draw unacceptably high currents as established by the test conditions. The isolation of the selected rows and columns allows the remainder of the array to be operated without anomalous interactions and protects the drive circuits powering array from damage.

Decoder includes outputs which are each electrically connected to one of the columns of thin film transistor backplane array . Each of outputs are identical with the exception that they are each coupled to a different column in thin film transistor backplane array . Each output includes a force switch such as force switch shown in output and a sense switch . Select buss is electrically coupled to each of the outputs and can selectively activate one or more of the outputs in response to receipt of a select code signal. As depicted in force switch is electrically coupled to the output of force amplifier and sense switch is electrically coupled to a reference terminal on force amplifier .

When an output such as output is activated a voltage from force voltage supply is amplified by force amplifier and passed through the selected output such as output to the transistors in a column in thin film transistor backplane array . When output is selected by select buss sense switch allows an electrical response from the column in thin film transistor backplane array to pass to the reference terminal on force amplifier and the electrical response can be observed and measured in accordance with the methods described herein. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the electrical response passed by sense switch to the reference terminal on force amplifier is used by the force amplifier to adjust the output so as to maintain a desired test potential on the input to the selected column. This provides a method for ensuring that a set of test conditions applied to the array remain constant even if the transistors comprising the decoder are varying due to aging effects or other factors.

Select lines establish electrical connections between one or more of the test pads and the row decoder . For clarity the select lines between test pads and the column decoder have been omitted from . Also for the purposes of clarity several select lines are depicted in . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that a greater or lesser number of select lines may be used. Select lines are used to control row decoder and select one or more addresses among address lines for activation during a test. Test pads may be electrically coupled together with the plurality of electrical connections depicted as elements . Elements may be either fuses or ESD protection devices or a combination of both including the fuses and ESD protection devices described herein. Elements may be used to protect the array from potentially damaging currents or voltages that may be applied during handling of the array or during testing.

When a test is performed one or more probes may be electrically connected to test pads within the array of test pads and any of the testing methods or configurations described herein may be applied.

As used in the term address line applies to the output connections of the appropriate decoder and the term bias line applies to an input connection of the appropriate decoder. However those skilled in the art will appreciate the operational relationship of decoders and multiplexer circuits and will also appreciate that a decoder may be configured to be a reversible device. As such in various alternate configurations the address lines may act as input connections and or the bias line may act as an output connection.

In configuration the row decoder and the column decoder may be fabricated at the same time as array . Other structures such as fuses or elements may also be fabricated at the same time as array . Further some or all of the components in configuration may be constructed on the same substrate as array .

Prior to a test using configuration the test pads are electrically disconnected from each other. If elements are fuses these fuses are singulated before a test. If elements are electrostatic discharge protection devices that normally function as an open circuit such electrostatic discharge protection devices may be reused if necessary during a test.

While many of the examples and embodiments described herein have indicated the use of amorphous silicon thin film transistors those skilled in the art will appreciate that the arrangements devices and methods described herein may be used with thin film transistors built with other compositions such as polysilicon microcrystalline silicon other semiconductors and or metal oxides and or organic materials.

Various arrangements and embodiments in accordance with the present invention have been described herein. All embodiments of each aspect of the invention can be used with embodiments of other aspects of the invention. It will be appreciated however that those skilled in the art will understand that changes and modifications may be made to these arrangements and embodiments as well as combinations of the various embodiments without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is defined by the following claims.

