---

title: Proctored performance analysis
abstract: Systems and methods described herein provide for administering and proctoring of a secure online exam that allows for complex testing utilizing practical examination tasks. The practical examination tasks provide for evaluation of the knowledge of the exam taker, as well as the exam taker's ability to apply that knowledge in a real-world environment. By performing the practical examination tasks in the context of a secure online exam, the competence of the test taker can be readily determined without worrying about the exam taker illicitly accessing information on their computer or via a remote source of data. The exam taker may perform the practical examination tasks through manipulation of an evaluation application executing on the exam taker's secured computer. The practical examination tasks may also be carried out through manipulation by the exam taker of an evaluation apparatus coupled to the exam taker's secured computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280907&OS=09280907&RS=09280907
owner: Kryterion, Inc.
number: 09280907
owner_city: Pheonix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101027
---
The present application is a continuation in part and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 571 666 filed on Oct. 1 2009 entitled Maintaining a Secure Computing Device in a Test Taking Environment the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to online testing. More specifically the present invention concerns administering and proctoring of a secure online exam which includes one or more practical examination tasks.

Examinations are used to determine the ability of an exam taker such as a student or prospective practitioner as it pertains to proficiency in a particular subject or skill set. For example a student might take an exam to determine whether the student possesses requisite knowledge in a particular subject that might be related to receiving a degree or certificate. A prospective practitioner of law or medicine similarly might sit for an examination to determine their competence as it pertains to practicing in that profession.

Students or prospective practitioners have historically gathered at the designated locale for an examination on a proscribed date and time. Examination materials are then handed out by a testing authority and the exam begins. During the allotted time the exam takers read questions and provide answers on a provided answer sheet or in a blue book. Throughout the course of examination a teacher or proctor keeps careful watch over the exam takers to ensure that no instances of cheating are taking place. While a single proctor may be able to observe a small group of exam takers such observation becomes more difficult for a larger exam taking pool or for a group of exam takers utilizing laptop computers or other computing devices.

The increased popularity of distance learning has also complicated proctoring of examinations. The distance learning instructional model delivers education material and information to students who are not physically on site at an education facility. Distance learning provides access to learning opportunities when the source of the information and the student are separated by time or distance if not both. Thousands of distance learners may be involved in a particular distance learning program or course at any given time.

Distance learning is no different than any other educational program in that there is a need to verify the qualifications of students through examination. Because distance learners are not collectively gathered at a physical learning institution such as a university the distance learning program often requires that the students attend an examination center which defeats a purpose of distance learning or administers an examination online. An online examination is difficult to proctor as an exam taker could be taking an examination in one window of a web browser while looking up answers in another window via the Internet. An exam taker could also utilize a chat or messaging application to relay questions to and receive answers from a knowledgeable third party. The value of online examinations is therefore questionable and calls into question the overall value of the corresponding class or degree program.

It can also be difficult to accurately evaluate an exam taker s knowledge or skill level in a particular subject through the use of an online examination. Specifically due to ease of administration and relative objectivity an online examination is typically implemented in a question and answer format using true false questions multiple choice questions and or short answer fill in the blank questions. However a question and answer format may not accurately indicate deficiencies in the exam taker s knowledge or skill level. For example these exams may not indicate whether the exam taker possesses the requisite knowledge in a particular subject or just guessed adequately enough to provide a sufficient number of correct responses to meet requirements associated with the exam.

Furthermore an online examination in a question and answer format can be inadequate in other respects such as in determining how well the exam taker can apply their knowledge in a real world environment. In particular the accuracy of question and answer based assessment is limited when what is being tested will eventually require practical hands on proficiency. For example answering questions relating to or involving the use of a software application may be inadequate when proper use of the software application is what is required to demonstrate competence. Similarly answering questions relating to or involving the use of a physical device suffers the same drawback. In addition the evaluation of some learning styles such as hands on learning may not lend themselves to online testing utilizing a question and answer format and instead require a practical based approach. These drawbacks thus limit the usefulness of distance learning with regard to certain subjects.

There is a need in the art for administering and proctoring of a secure online exam which includes one or more practical hands on examination tasks.

Systems and methods described herein provide for administering and proctoring of a secure online exam which allows for complex testing utilizing practical examination tasks. The practical examination tasks provide for evaluation of the knowledge of the exam taker as well as the exam taker s ability to apply that knowledge in a real world environment. By performing the practical examination tasks in the context of a secure online exam the competence of the test taker can be readily determined without worrying about the exam taker illicitly accessing information on their computer or via a remote source of data. The exam taker may perform the practical examination tasks through manipulation of an evaluation application executing on the exam taker s secured computer. The practical examination tasks may also be carried out through manipulation by the exam taker of an evaluation apparatus coupled to the exam taker s secured computer.

A system is described herein for administration of a secure examination via a network. The system includes a testing server coupled to the network that provides testing data for the examination. A first computing device is coupled to the network and receives the testing data to execute a testing routine for the examination. The first computing device also executes a secure testing application that implements security limitations for the first computing device during the testing routine. The first computing device further provides interaction data indicating manipulation by a user of the first computing device in performing one or more practical examination tasks during the testing routine. The system also includes a second computing device coupled to the network that receives the interaction data in order to determine competence of the user in the one or more practical examination tasks.

A method is described herein for administration of a secure examination via a network. The method includes providing testing data for the examination during execution of a testing routine on a computing device. The testing data is provided over the network and includes security limitations for the computing device during the testing routine. Interaction data is then received over the network the interaction data indicating manipulation by a user of the computing device in performing one or more practical examination tasks during the testing routine. The received interaction data is then analyzed to determine competence of the user in the one or more practical examination tasks.

A computer readable storage medium as described herein has embodied thereon a program the program being executable by a processor to perform a method as described above for administration of a secure proctored examination via a network.

Systems and methods described herein provide for administering and proctoring of a secure online exam which allows for complex testing utilizing practical examination tasks. The secure online exam may also include exam questions. An exam question may be a multiple choice question a true false question an essay question or any other type of question an exam taker is asked to answer. In contrast a practical examination task is a task or exercise an exam taker is asked to perform.

The practical examination tasks provide for evaluation of the knowledge of the exam taker as well as the exam taker s ability to apply that knowledge in a real world environment. By performing the practical examination tasks in the context of a secure online exam the competence of the test taker can be readily determined without worrying about the test taker illicitly accessing information on their computer or via a remote source of data.

The exam taker may perform the practical examination tasks through manipulation of an evaluation application executing on the exam taker s secured computer. For example the practical examination task may be a task or scenario the exam taker is asked to complete through the use of the evaluation application. The evaluation application may for example be a commercially available application such as a web browser a word processing application or any other software application which can be manipulated by the exam taker to perform a practical examination task. The evaluation application may alternatively be created by the testing administrator or otherwise developed specifically for administration of the online exam.

Practical examination tasks may also or alternatively be carried out through manipulation by the exam taker of an evaluation apparatus coupled to the exam taker s secured computer. The evaluation apparatus may for example be physically manipulated by the exam taker to perform the practical examination tasks. The evaluation apparatus may alternatively be manipulated by the exam taker via user input to an evaluation application which controls the evaluation apparatus. Manipulation may include turning on or off the evaluation apparatus configuring the evaluation apparatus attaching or otherwise coupling the evaluation apparatus to other devices operating the evaluation apparatus providing user input to the evaluation apparatus reading or otherwise receiving output from the evaluation apparatus or otherwise using the evaluation apparatus to perform a practical examination task in the context of the online exam. The evaluation apparatus may for example be an electrical device laboratory experiment equipment a medical device or any other type of physical device which can be manipulated directly and or remotely by the exam taker and otherwise communicatively integrated with the computing device of the test taker e.g. through a USB port and USB cable through the introduction of a memory card exchanged between the apparatus and computing device or through a wireless or Bluetooth connection .

Securing a computing device includes locking out or preventing access to any application or hardware not deemed necessary or appropriate by the exam administrator. Securing a computing device may further include allowing the test administrator access to the computing device before or during the examination. By granting access to the computing device the test administrator may search for illicit files related to the examination or make determinations as to whether the exam taker has attempted to disable or has disabled certain functionality as it relates to locking out unnecessary or inappropriate applications on the computing device. Securing the computing device further includes allowing for dynamic locking and unlocking of an evaluation application and or an evaluation apparatus pertaining to the practical examination tasks.

A video camera device or other visual and or audio environment capture device may be used to generate data of the examination environment surrounding the exam taker. A remote proctor may view the data in real time and determine if any visual or audio activity in the examination environment constitutes activity not in accordance with the exam protocol.

The computing devices may be any sort of computing device as is known in the art. The computing devices include memory for storage of data and software applications a processor for accessing data and executing applications and input and output devices that allow for user interaction. The computing devices further include components that facilitate communication over the communications network such as an RJ 45 connection for use in twisted pair based 10baseT networks or a wireless network interface card allowing for connection to a radio based communication network e.g. an 802.11 wireless network .

The computing devices may be a general purpose computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer. The computing devices may belong to a particular user rather than being a computing device dedicated to exam taking as might be found in a examination center. Thin client or netbook client devices may be implemented in the context of computing devices as might mobile computing devices such as smart phones.

Communication network may be a local proprietary network e.g. an intranet and or may be a part of a larger wide area network. The communication network may be a local area network LAN which may be communicatively coupled to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The Internet is a broad network of interconnected computers and servers allowing for the transmission and exchange of Internet Protocol IP data between users connected through a network service provider. Examples of network service providers are the public switched telephone network a cable service provider a provider of digital subscriber line DSL services or a satellite service provider. Communication network allows for communication between the various components of system .

The computing device is representative of the computing devices . As described below an evaluation application executable by the computing device may be manipulated by the exam taker to perform one or more practical examination tasks during administration of an examination. Practical examination tasks may also or alternatively be carried out through manipulation by the exam taker of an evaluation apparatus coupled to the computing device . The computing device provides interaction data indicating the manipulation by the exam taker in performing the practical examination tasks. This interaction data can then be analyzed by an analysis application executing on the testing server to determine competence of the exam taker as it pertains to the practical examination tasks. Alternatively the interaction data may be manually analyzed by a person to evaluate how well the exam taker has performed the practical examination tasks.

The testing server is coupled to the communication network . The testing server is a computing device which includes memory a processor for accessing data and executing applications and components to facilitate communication over communications network . The testing server is tasked with transmitting and receiving exam content during the administration and proctoring of an examination.

The exam content includes testing data such as the actual exam e.g. prompts for practical examination tasks questions etc. or other data concerning an exam as well as answers to the questions and the interaction data provided by the computing devices during an examination. Registration information of the exam takers such as a name or examination identification number as well as a password may also be stored in the testing server .

Biometric information such as a visual image of the exam taker may also be stored in the testing server and compared against a previously stored and known good image of the exam taker. A similar comparison may be made with respect to a voice print. Retinal scans and finger prints subject to the presence of the appropriate peripheral device may also be stored and used for verifying exam taker identity. These peripheral devices may be implemented in the context of the use of video camera device microphone or other environment capture device.

The testing server also manages the real time upload and distribution of data streams of the examination environments captured from visual and or audio capture devices coupled to the computing devices . The visual and or audio capture devices are used to monitor the exam taking environment surrounding the exam taker during administration of the exam. The data stream may be transmitted in real time to the central office proctoring center and or one or more geographically distributed proctoring centers . A proctor may then view the data stream via a streaming technique in real time i.e. during administration of the examination and determine if any visual activity in the examination environment constitutes activity not in accordance with the exam protocol. The testing server may also store the data streams for retrieval and playback in a non streaming fashion.

The testing server may for example operate as an origin server for the exam content and be implemented in conjunction with a distributed server network such as a content delivery network CDN . See commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 850 136 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Central office proctoring center is an operations center with computing devices staffed with one or more proctors observing the data streams of various examination environments for exam takers at one or more examination sites. These examination sites may be physically remote from the central office proctoring center . Examination sites can be examination centers dedicated to the offering of examinations traditional classroom settings as well as personal space such as a home or office workspace. The geographically distributed proctoring centers include computing devices which may belong to a particular proctor rather than being a computing device dedicated to proctoring as might otherwise be found in the central office proctoring center . The proctors at the central office proctoring center and geographically distributed proctoring centers may observe and analyze a variety of different types of information to help ensure the integrity of the examination.

The computing devices are secured in order to prevent access to files or other types of data such as notes outlines and exam preparation material during an examination as well as preventing access to applications that themselves allow for access to data.

The computing devices are secured for the taking of an exam through the installation and subsequent execution of a secure testing application e.g. secure testing application installed on computing device . Computing device is representative of the computing devices . Secure testing application may be downloaded from the testing server or another computing device coupled to the communication network . Secure testing application may also be installed from a computer readable storage device such as a CD ROM. The secure testing application may then be stored in memory at the corresponding computing device and executed by a processor to invoke its corresponding functionality.

Secure testing application is a security application software that prevents computing device from accessing certain data or applications that might otherwise be in violation of examination regulations or protocols as identified by testing server . The security application software causes the computing device to operate in a secure mode by introducing certain changes to the system registry such that only those applications or files deemed necessary or appropriate by the exam administrator and as embodied in a corresponding exam protocol may be allocated address space loaded into memory and ultimately executed by the computing device .

For example an exam protocol for a particular examination may deny access to a web browser e mail client and chat applications such that an exam taker may not electronically communicate with other individuals during the examination. This particular protocol may be downloaded to the computing devices from the testing server along with testing data. The secure testing application then operates in accordance with the downloaded testing protocol such that certain applications are not allowed to be loaded and executed. Because the applications that may be installed on a computing device are all but infinite the testing protocol may identify those applications that an exam taker is allowed to access rather than those applications to which access is prohibited.

Similar prohibitions or permissions may apply to hardware components of the computing device as well as any number of hardware peripherals that might be introduced to the computing devices . Examples of such peripherals that might be introduced include a second computer monitor docking stations a traditional full sized keyboard as might be used with a laptop computer. Other peripherals might include thumb drives time shift recording devices that offer TiVo like functionality as well as any number of other plug and play peripherals.

A particularly apt example with respect to hardware at the computing device concerns network connectivity. Network connectivity may be allowed prior to commencing an examination such that certain data may be downloaded. This data may include the actual test e.g. prompts and questions or other data concerning a test. Once the certain data is downloaded however network connectivity may be deactivated through locking out a network card until the test is completed and the network card is released.

In other instances however network connectivity may be maintained throughout the course of the examination. This may be particularly relevant to a scenario where testing data is maintained at the testing server and only displayed at the computing device . In such an instance the test data itself may never be stored or downloaded at the computing device . In these and similar scenarios it may be necessary to allow only certain data to be exchanged over the network connection. This would include both incoming and outgoing data.

The secure testing application may also operate in conjunction with the testing server to properly execute a testing routine for the given examination event. For example the testing routine may allow for the user to have access to all questions at any given time such that the user may answer and not answer questions at their leisure and subsequently return to any questions at a later time for further review. The testing routine may alternatively require the exam taker to lock in an answer or set of answers and have the same reported to the testing server prior to receiving a subsequent question.

In instances where the secure testing application allows access to certain applications on computing device the functionalities of those applications may be limited. For example a testing protocol may allow for activation of a web browser and network connectivity but only to a single secure site providing testing data. The protocol may further or alternatively allow for exchanges of only certain types of data or data that has been certified for exchange. Such certifications may include the presence of certain headers in the data or the data having been encrypted in a particular fashion. Similarly the print function of a particular application may be disabled. The testing protocol may include instructions on how certain application programming interfaces APIs for certain software applications are to be implemented or disabled by the secure testing application . Drivers may be managed in a similar fashion e.g. a printer driver .

Access to certain applications hardware or functionality may be disabled or limited for a particular portion of an examination. For example as noted above a network interface card may be temporarily disabled after an initial download of data. Once the exam is complete however the network card may be re enabled to allow for transmission of data or to allow for the free and general exchange of data rather than a more limited set under the control of the secure testing application .

The occurrence of certain milestones or events during a testing event may correspond to the enablement or disabling of hardware software or specific application functionality. For example print functionality may be disabled during an examination to prevent a test taker from printing a copy of the examination and then delivering the copy to a friend so that they may review the questions before they take the examination. The functionality may be enabled however to allow the user to keep a copy of their answers sans the questions. The functionality may be re enabled once an exam taker clicks on a Test Complete button or icon that locks in the test taker s answers and prevents them from being further manipulated once certain computing device hardware software or functionality has been re enabled that was otherwise disabled during the examination.

The secure testing application may also observe activity on the computing device during administration of an examination. If an exam taker attempts to make changes to the system registry that were implemented by the secure testing application the secure testing application may identify and report these attempts to the central office monitoring center and distributed proctor monitoring centers .

The secure testing application may operate in conjunction with video camera device or other visual and or audio capture device to monitor the exam environment surrounding the exam taker of the computing device . Video camera device which may be a commercially available web camera or other image acquisition device generates a real time data stream of the exam environment. If the exam taker leaves their seat or another individual enters the exam area during the course of the examination the video camera device will capture this visual information. The video camera device provides the data stream to the secure testing application . The secure testing application encodes and uploads the captured data stream into the testing server . The testing server in turn delivers the data stream to the central office monitoring center and or one or more geographically distributed proctor monitoring centers during the administration of the examination.

A proctor at the central office monitoring center and or the proctor monitoring centers may then view the data stream provided by the testing server and determine if any visual activity constitutes activity not in accordance with the exam protocol. The proctor may then log the information for further assessment by the actual exam administrator e.g. the professor or professional association administrating the examination or make a direct inquiry of the exam taker as to the nature of the observed behavior and or provide a warning as to terminate that behavior. Other external devices may also be used to gather environment data that can be provided in the encoded data stream uploaded to the testing server such as a microphone or other environment capture device.

The secure testing application may operate in conjunction with the evaluation application so that the exam taker can perform practical examination tasks in connection with the online exam. In the illustrated embodiment the exam taker performs the practical examination tasks through manipulation of the evaluation application executing on the computing device . Alternatively the evaluation application may be hosted at the testing server or some other computing device coupled to the communications network . In yet other alternative embodiments the stand alone evaluation application may be omitted and a virtual instance of the evaluation application provided through the use of the secure testing application . In such a case the exam content which indicates the appropriate interface interactions and nuances of the evaluation application may be provided by the testing server for use by the secure testing application .

The practical examination task may be a task or scenario the exam taker is asked to complete through the use of or otherwise utilizing the evaluation application . For example the practical examination task may involve configuring the evaluation application or otherwise performing a complex process on the computing device . An assessment module of the secure testing application captures or otherwise receives interaction data indicating the manipulation by the exam taker in performing the practical examination task. The assessment module provides interaction data to the testing server to evaluate the competence of the exam taker. As a result the exam taker s ability to apply knowledge in a real world environment can be evaluated by seeing whether the exam taker can modify the assessment application to complete the task or scenario.

As an example the evaluation application may be an e mail application such as Microsoft Outlook and the practical examination task may involve setting up the e mail application to work with a particular email account. The exam taker then performs the task by navigating through the various menus prompts and windows in the user interface of Microsoft Outlook selecting the appropriate settings and inputting the e mail account information necessary to complete the setup. The assessment module may for example obtain interaction data regarding the setup of the e mail account by capturing the keystrokes input by the exam taker during use of the e mail application. As another example the assessment module may obtain interaction data by examining the disk image file of the computing device or any other file associated with the setting up of the e mail account.

The evaluation application may be enabled launched and then disabled automatically by the secure testing application in accordance with the exam protocol. Alternatively the exam taker may be prompted to manually launch the evaluation application during a particular portion of an examination.

The evaluation application may be placed automatically into a particular state by the secure testing application as defined by the exam protocol. In such a case the exam taker can be presented with a well controlled testing environment with which to begin a practical examination task.

The manipulation of the evaluation application by the exam taker to perform a practical examination task may include user input via an interface of the evaluation application which creates or modifies data associated with the evaluation application . For example the exam taker may provide user input via a keyboard or other input device of the computing device to change the state of the evaluation application . This may include creating modifying or deleting files stored in memory in the computing device which are associated with the evaluation application .

The evaluation application may for example be a commercially available application such as a web browser a word processing application or any other software application which can be manipulated via user input by the exam taker. The evaluation application may alternatively be created by the testing administrator or otherwise developed specifically for administration of the online exam.

The assessment module provides interaction data to the testing server indicating the manipulation of the evaluation application by the exam taker. The interaction data may for example be in the form of one or more data files which were created or modified by the exam taker during use of the evaluation application in performing the practical examination task. Alternatively other techniques may be used for obtaining the interaction data. For example the interaction data may be generated by the evaluation application in response to the user input. As another example the assessment module may obtain the interaction data by capturing the keystrokes input by the exam taker during use of the evaluation application .

Practical examination tasks may also or alternatively be performed by the exam taker through manipulation of an evaluation apparatus coupled to the computing device . Use of the evaluation apparatus may be enabled and disabled automatically by the secure testing application in accordance with the exam protocol. For example the secure testing application may enable or disable the operability of a port e.g. a universal serial bus port of the computing device used to connect to the evaluation apparatus .

The evaluation apparatus may for example be physically manipulated by the exam taker to perform the practical examination tasks. The evaluation apparatus may alternatively be manipulated by the exam taker via user input to the evaluation application which controls the evaluation apparatus . In such a case the evaluation application may provide configuration data to control the evaluation apparatus based on the user input.

Manipulation may include turning on or off the evaluation apparatus configuring the evaluation apparatus attaching or otherwise coupling the evaluation apparatus to other devices operating the evaluation apparatus providing user input to the evaluation apparatus reading or otherwise receiving output from the evaluation apparatus or otherwise using the evaluation apparatus to perform a task in the context of the online exam.

As an example the evaluation apparatus may be a router and the practical examination task may involve setting up the router as part of a local area network. To perform the task the exam taker connects the router to the computing device and turns on the router. The exam taker would then run through set up and configuration of the router using the router s administration application i.e. evaluation application . This set up and configuration by the exam taker may involve providing user input to log in to the router configure settings and security features of the router and enter local area network information such as the SSID as well any additional information necessary to setup the router as part of the local area network.

The assessment module may for example obtain interaction data regarding the setup of the router by capturing the keystrokes input by the exam taker during use of the router s administration application. As another example the assessment module may obtain interaction data by verifying that the network connection through the use of the router is working. For example the assessment module may verify that the network connection is working by confirming that the computing device has received IP address information from the router.

The evaluation apparatus may for example be an electrical device laboratory experiment equipment a medical device or any other type of physical device which can be manipulated directly and or remotely by the exam taker. The evaluation apparatus may for example be a commercially available device or system. The evaluation apparatus may alternatively be created by the testing administrator or otherwise developed specifically for administration of the online exam.

The evaluation apparatus may be placed into a particular state by the secure testing application as defined by the exam protocol. In such a case the exam taker can be presented with a well controlled testing environment with which to begin a practical examination task.

The secure testing application may also implement security limitations to operate the evaluation apparatus in a secure mode. For example if the evaluation apparatus is a device which includes a system registry that stores settings and options for a particular operating system installed on the evaluation apparatus the secure testing application may introduce certain changes to the system registry such that only those applications or files deemed necessary or appropriate by the exam administrator are executed. Similar prohibitions or permissions may apply to hardware components or functionality of the evaluation apparatus as well as any number of hardware peripherals that might be introduced to the evaluation apparatus . The secure testing application may further allow for exchanges of only certain types of data or data that has been certified for exchange with the evaluation apparatus .

The secure testing application may also observe activity on the evaluation apparatus during administration of an examination. If an exam taker attempts to make changes that were implemented by the secure testing application the secure testing application may identify and report these attempts to the central office monitoring center and distributed proctor monitoring centers .

The assessment module provides interaction data to the testing server indicating the manipulation of the evaluation apparatus by the exam taker. The interaction data may for example be in the form of one or more data files which were created or modified by the exam taker during use of the evaluation apparatus in performing the practical examination task. Alternatively other techniques may be used for obtaining the interaction data. For example the interaction data may be generated by the evaluation apparatus in response to user input such as the pressing of certain buttons or the performance of certain measurements using the evaluation apparatus .

In the illustrated embodiment the evaluation apparatus is directly connected to the computing device . In other words the evaluation apparatus is located in the examination environment surrounding the exam taker. In some embodiments the evaluation apparatus may be physically remote from the computing device . In such a case the evaluation apparatus may be coupled to the computing device via the communications network . For example the evaluation apparatus may be laboratory equipment located in a remote lab. The exam taker may then remotely manipulate the evaluation apparatus in the context of the online examination through the use of the evaluation application .

In step the exam which includes one or more practical exam tasks is delivered. The delivery of the exam will be described in more detail below with respect to .

Proctoring step takes place over the course of the examination and may be implemented as part of step . The proctoring step utilizes a variety of security technologies and processes to deter and detect aberrance during the exam process. In particular the exam taking environment surrounding the exam taker may be monitored in real time by a proctor utilizing a live video feed of the exam taker. The live video feed can be captured utilizing a video camera device or other visual and or audio environment capture device as described above. The proctoring step may be carried out as described in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 850 136 the disclosure of which was previously incorporated by reference.

The need to acquire the secure testing application may be previously communicated to the exam taker or may be indicated when the exam taker attempts to access the testing server but lacks the proper credentials to do so as the exam taker has not been authenticated by the secure testing application .

As described above in some embodiments the exam taker performs the practical examination tasks through manipulation of the evaluation application executing on the computing device . In such a case if not already installed the evaluation application may also be installed at step similar to techniques described above regarding the installation of the secure testing application .

Following enrollment and authentication of the exam taker at step the testing server transmits the exam protocols to the computing device . These exam protocols are related to the security of the testing event. Some protocols may be universal and pre implemented in the secure testing application such as requiring authentication of an exam taker prior to commencing an examination.

At step the testing protocols are implemented with respect to various hardware software and functional aspects of the computing device . Implementing the testing protocols may include modifying the system registry of the computing device to prevent certain hardware software or other functionality from being implemented. These changes may be undone once the once the secure testing application completes its execution i.e. the test is complete . As such the secure testing application may maintain a record of changes it makes to the system registry to allow for proper editing back to an original setting. These records may also be maintained in order to allow the secure testing application to make a determination whether any attempt to circumvent the exam protocols have been made.

In embodiments in which the exam taker performs the practical examination tasks through manipulation of the evaluation apparatus the testing protocols may be also be implemented with respect to various hardware software and functional aspects of evaluation apparatus .

At step the exam content including testing data such as the prompts and questions or other data concerning the exam are transmitted by the testing server to the computing device. At step the testing routine including one or more practical examination tasks are implemented in accordance with various exam protocols and exam content. The testing routine will be described in more detail with respect to .

At step the interaction data indicating the manipulation by the exam taker in performing the examination tasks is transmitted by the computing device to the testing server . Step may further include delivery of exam answers back to the testing server .

In step violations of exam protocols may also be reported to the testing server the central office proctoring center and or one or more geographically distributed proctoring centers . Data related to violations may be captured by video camera device microphone or other environment capture device. Data related to attempts to circumvent registry changes related to maintaining the security of the computing device and the evaluation apparatus may likewise be reported. Violations may be reported as they occur in real time on demand in response to a proctor query or part of a regular batch of data.

At step the interaction data along with any other data concerning the exam is received by the testing server . At step the interaction data is analyzed to determine competence of the exam taker in the practical examination tasks. As an example the interaction data may be in the form of a file which was modified by the exam taker in performing the practical examination task. In such a case determining the competence of the exam taker may be based on these modifications to the file.

In the illustrated embodiment this analysis is performed by the analysis application executing on the testing server . The analysis application may automatically compare the interaction data to benchmark data stored in the testing server to determine the competence of the exam taker. Alternatively the interaction data may be manually analyzed by a person to evaluate how well the exam taker has performed the practical examination tasks.

The determination of the competence of the exam taker may be based on the similarity between the interaction data and the benchmark data. The amount of similarity corresponding to a particular score for the exam taker may be defined by the exam authority. For example the exam taker may be assigned a certain number of points indicating how well the exam taker performed a practical examination task. As another example the score may simply indicate whether the exam taker passed or failed the practical examination task.

At step the secure testing application enables execution of the evaluation application so that the exam taker can perform the practical examination task. In the illustrated embodiment the secure testing application enables execution of the evaluation application by introducing certain changes to the system registry of the computing device . Step may correspond to the occurrence of certain milestones or events during the exam.

At step the evaluation application is launched. The assessment application may be launched automatically by the secure testing application in accordance with the exam protocol. Alternatively the exam taker may be prompted to manually launch the evaluation application during a particular portion of an examination.

The evaluation application may be placed automatically into a particular state by the secure testing application as defined by the exam protocol such as by loading a stored file. In such a case the exam taker can be presented with a well controlled testing environment with which to begin a practical examination task.

At step the exam taker is presented with a practical examination task to be performed. The secure testing application may present the practical examination task by displaying information to the exam taker indicating the task that the exam taker must perform. At step the interaction data is captured by the assessment module based on the user input to the assessment application .

At step the secure testing application enables use of the evaluation apparatus so that the exam taker can perform the practical examination task. In the illustrated embodiment the secure testing application enables use of the evaluation apparatus by introducing certain changes to the system registry of the computing device . For example the secure testing application may enable or disable the operability of a port e.g. a universal serial bus port of the computing device used to connect to the evaluation apparatus . Step may correspond to the occurrence of certain milestones or events during the exam.

The evaluation apparatus may be placed automatically into a particular state by the secure testing application as defined by the exam protocol. In such a case the exam taker can be presented with a well controlled testing environment with which to begin a practical examination task.

At step the exam taker is presented with a practical examination task to be performed. In one embodiment the secure testing application presents the practical examination task by displaying information to the exam taker indicating the task that the exam taker must perform.

At step the interaction data is captured by the assessment module based on the user input to the evaluation apparatus . For example the interaction data may be generated by the evaluation apparatus in response to user input such as the pressing of certain buttons or the performance of certain measurements using the evaluation apparatus . In some embodiments the interaction data is also or alternatively captured based on the response of the evaluation apparatus to the user input.

Other techniques may also be used for providing user input to the evaluation apparatus . For example the evaluation apparatus may alternatively be manipulated by the exam taker via user input to the evaluation application which controls the evaluation apparatus . In such a case the evaluation application may provide configuration data to control the evaluation apparatus based on the user input. This configuration data may also be provided as interaction data by the assessment module .

Computer readable storage media refer to any non transitory storage medium and that may allow for instructions to be provided to a central processing unit CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile and volatile media such as optical or magnetic disks and dynamic memory respectively. Common forms computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium RAM PROM EPROM a FLASHEPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge.

Computer readable storage medium which are non transitory in nature differ from the various forms of transmission media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU. Various forms of storage may likewise be implemented as well as the necessary network interfaces and network topologies to implement the same.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

