---

title: Presenting source regions of rendered source web pages in target regions of target web pages
abstract: A target web page may embed resources hosted by a source server. However, this embedding may result in compatibility and/or security issues; e.g., the dimensions of the embedded resource may skew the layout of the target web page. Instead, a source web page may be rendered separately from a target web page, and a source region of the source web page (e.g., a region defined by a set of coordinates) may be extracted from the source web page and may be presented in a target region of the target web page. The elements of the source region may be displayed and executed in isolation within the source web page, and may operate within a source domain (e.g., communicating with the source server and accessing cookies stored by the source server), yet may not interact with the elements of the target web page, thereby alleviating many compatibility and security problems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378294&OS=09378294&RS=09378294
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09378294
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a web page provided by a first server that includes one or more resources provided by a second server. As a first example the second server may host one or more resources such as an image or an audio or video recording that may be embedded by reference in the web page provided by the first server. As a second example the second server may provide information such as a set of headlines and links to news stories or a set of stock symbols and rates that may be included in the web page provided by the first server.

In these and other scenarios a target server e.g. the first server may provide a target web page that includes one or more elements hosted by a source server e.g. the second server . As a first technique for achieving this inclusion the target web page provided by the target server may include among the references to resources hosted by the target server that are included in the web page e.g. images scripts written in programming languages such as Javascript and cascading style sheet CSS objects specifying a formatting of the web page one or more references to resources hosted by the source server. The reference may either natively embed the resource in the target web page or may encapsulate the resource potentially including an entire web page of the second server in a construct such as an iframe. When a user of a computer operates a web browser to access the target web page the target server may send the target web page to the browser including the references to resources hosted by the target server and the source server. Upon receiving the target web page the web browser may scan the web page to identify the references to various resources included in the web page may retrieve the referenced resources from the target server and the source server and may render the resources including the resources hosted by the source server into the web page to be presented to the user.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The inclusion of resources hosted by the source server in the target web page provided by the target server may be advantageous e.g. for permitting cooperative embedding data sharing and advertising. However the inclusion of resources by reference e.g. where the target web page includes references to the resources hosted by the source server which are retrieved and rendered into the target web page in an equivalent manner as for the resources hosted by the target server may present some disadvantages. As a first example if the embedded resources do not correspond to the target web page e.g. the dimensions allocated for the resource the embedded resource and or the target web page may appear skewed or may not function properly unless developer of the source web page may have to develop another version of the embedded resource. In scenarios where a resource of the source server is embedded in many target web pages this redevelopment may be very costly and time consuming but may provide little benefit to either the source web page or the target web page. Moreover the use of an iframe may result in the embedding of an entire resource such as an entire web page of the source server. This may be undesirable e.g. the developer of the target web page may wish to present only a portion of the resource such as a portion of a web page or an image provided by the source server into the target web page but the iframe construct does not support this usage.

As a second example the resource may not be fully compatible with the target web page e.g. the resource may comprise an image having a particular size but the target web page may embed the resource in a target region of a different size resulting in an undesirable skewing of the dimensions of the image e.g. by proportionately or disproportionately scaling the image to meet the size of the target region and or the target web page e.g. by distorting the spacing and other formatting of the target web page . As another such example an active resource provided by the source server such as a script or executable object may be incompatible with the target web page and may not execute correctly within the target web page. Such incompatibilities may become more prevalent e.g. as the formatting of the target web page and or the resource change. As a third example encapsulating a resource provided by a source server in an iframe may raise some security concerns and or may invoke some security restrictions that limit the functionality of the resource. For example exploits have been conceived for circumventing the cross domain restriction policy of the web browser between the contents of an iframe and the target web page such that the target web page may communicate with resource provided in the iframe and new exploits may be identified in the future that diminish the security and trust of the iframe construct.

Presented herein are techniques for improving the inclusion of elements provided by a source server in a target web page provided by a target server. In accordance with these techniques the resources of the source server are not included by reference by the target web page and are not rendered into the target web page in a similar manner as the resources provided by the target server. Rather the source server may provide a source web page which may include one or more resources hosted by the source server e.g. text images audio or video recordings scripts or executable objects . A source region of the source web page such as a particular area of the source web page defined by a particular coordinate set may be designated to appear in a target region of the target web page. Accordingly the web browser of the user may render the source web page but may not display the source web page to the user. Rather the web browser may also render the target web page separately from the rendering of the source web page. The web browser may then extract the source region of the source web page and may present the source region within the target region of the target web page. Thus rather than embedding the elements comprising the source region as functional elements of the target web page which may interact with desirably and undesirably and or affect the functionality of the target web page the source region may be functionally limited to operate within the source web page but may nevertheless appear within the target region of the target web page.

These techniques may present several advantages as compared with embedding the resources. As a first example allowing a target web page to specify e.g. as a set of coordinates a particular source region of the source web page to present within the target region of the target web page may significantly reduce the redevelopment of the resources presented therein. Rather than the developer of the source web page having to generate several versions of an embedded image to match the layout and operating environment of different target web pages the target web page may simply include in the target region a source region comprising a portion of the currently existing source web page. In the context of advertising the target web page may simply specify any selected portion of the source web page within the target region of the target web page. For currently existing advertisements included in the source web page the target web page may simply adjust the dimensions of the selected source region to match the target region. Moreover the developer of the source web page may not have to create advertisements at all the target web page may present any selected portion of the source web page within the target region and may therefore create advertisements out of the ordinary content of the source web page. As a third example the target web page may present source regions of the source web page without the awareness or consent of the source server thereby facilitating mash ups of the content included in the source web page with other content.

As a second exemplary advantage of the techniques presented herein the elements comprising the source region do not functionally interact with any aspect of the target web page and do not affect the functionality thereof. For example because the presentation of the source region is limited to the dimensions of the target region specified by the target web page the dimensions of elements within the source region do not affect the formatting of the target web page. Generally elements that operate within the source web page may be presented in the target region of the target web page without any compatibility issues arising from conflicting configurations of the source web page and the target web page.

As a third exemplary advantage of the techniques presented herein because the elements appearing within the source region are rendered within a source web page the elements may be restricted to a domain associated with the source server rather than the target server. Accordingly these elements may interact with the target server and or locally stored resources e.g. cookies stored on the computer and restricted to the target domain. Moreover the source server may rely on the cross domain restriction policy of the web browser to prevent the elements of the target web page from exploiting the inclusion of the source region to access the locally stored resources that are restricted to the source domain and conversely the target server may rely on the cross domain restriction policy to prevent the elements of the source region from interacting with the locally stored resources that are restricted to the target domain. As a result the source region may access cookies and other locally stored source domain resources and may personalize the content in the source region without concern of interference by the target web page. These and other advantages may be achieved by presenting the elements of the source web page within the target region of the target web page according to the techniques presented herein.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a rendering of a web page provided by a first server where the web page includes one or more aspects provided by a second server. As a first example the second server may host media objects such as images audio or video recordings or rendered documents that are to be embedded in the web page provided by the first server. As a second example the second server may host data objects such as interpretable scripts e.g. a Javascript code section or data objects e.g. an extensible markup language XML data file that provides data incorporated into the web site or a cascading style sheet CSS that specifies the layout and formatting of various aspects of the web page that may be utilized in various ways within the web page. As a third example the second server may provide information that is to be included in the web page e.g. a news feed or weblog providing a set of story headlines each including a hyperlink to other web pages providing the full story that are to be included in a sidebar of the web page . In these and other scenarios the web page provided by the first server may include one or more resources provided by the second server wherein the second server comprising a source server serves as a source of data to be included in a target web page provided by the first server comprising a target server . Additionally these scenarios may be implemented by the target server with the cooperation of the source server e.g. an advertising scenario where the source server provides images comprising advertisements that are to be included in an ad supported target web page or without the cooperation of the source server e.g. a hot linked image embedded in the target web page without the knowledge consent or cooperation of the source server .

Many techniques may be utilized to achieve this inclusion. As a first example the source server may provide data directly to the target server either on an independent basis e.g. a periodic transfer of data or on an ad hoc basis e.g. when the target server receives a request from a user for a target web page embedding one or more resources provided by the source server . The user may therefore receive the entire web page directly from the target server without knowledge of the existence of or data sharing by the source server. As a second example the target web page provided by the target server may embed one or more references to resources hosted by the source server. For example a web document formatted according to a hypertext markup language HTML may include one or more tags each specifying the embedding of an image within the web page. The target server may use this tag in the web document to specify an image hosted by the target server in this manner 

A second technique that may be utilized to present a resource hosted by a source server within a target server involves the encapsulation of a referenced resource within a construct known as an iframe. The iframe supports the inclusion of resources in the following manner 

The exemplary scenario of may present some advantages e.g. by promoting the cooperative embedding into the target web page of resources provided by the source server data sharing and for promoting data sharing among the target server and the source server s . The embedding of resources may also be comparatively simple e.g. achieved by including in the web document a single reference to the resource and may be performed without the knowledge consent or cooperation of a source server . Such techniques may therefore be advantageous in scenarios involving a loosely coupled or uncoupled target server and source server e.g. in an advertisement network where the target server presents web documents upon the requests of respective users where the target server providing the web document and the source server providing the resource do not interact or even know the identity of the other but where the content and the resources are to be appear together in the web page .

However the techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of may present some disadvantages. As a first set of examples a resource may not be fully compatible with the target web page such that the rendering of the target web page may be distorted or non functional. For example a resource comprising an image may be of different dimensions than anticipated by the developer of the target web page and may therefore skew the layout of the target web page . Conversely the web document may skew the image to fit a desired area in the target web page e.g. by undesirably or unintentionally scaling cropping and or resampling the image. Similar consequences may arise with resources comprising text to be embedded in the target web page . For example formatting specified in the web document such as by a cascading style sheet CSS may adversely affect text provided by the source server and the text may therefore render in an overly large small or unreadable manner. Conversely a large volume of text provided by the source server may overflow the area provided within the target web page resulting in a truncation of the text and or a distortion of the layout of the target web page . As yet another example active elements to be included within the target web page such as interpretable scripts and executable binaries may interfere with the other elements of the target web page e.g. by undesirably rendering over other portions of the target web page or by intercepting user input that the user wishes to direct toward other portions of the target web page . Alternatively an execution framework for the resource specified by the web document e.g. an applet or sandbox within which the resource is to be interpreted executed or rendered may be incompatible with the resource thereby causing a failure or limitation of the resource . Such incompatibilities may become more prevalent e.g. as developers of the source server and or the target server alter the target web page the resource the configurations of the servers and as the user updates the computer and the web browser .

These discrepancies and incompatibilities may limit many scenarios involving the embedding of a resource hosted by a source server in the target web page and or the importing of the resource or a web document of the source server within an iframe. As a first such example in the context of advertising an advertiser may have developed some advertising resources that are hosted by the source server such as a banner ad or an interactive applet. However because of size or compatibility discrepancies with a target web page a developer may have to adapt the resource in order to match the target web page . This redevelopment may occur on a wide scale if the resource is embedded in many target web pages having different properties thereby incurring a significant and perhaps large development cost. Moreover because the advertisement has already been generated the costs of this redevelopment present little benefit to either developer or the target web page . Additionally the designer of the target web page may not wish to include an entire resource or web document of the source server but may only wish to include a particular region within the web document or a particular portion of the web document or resource . However embedding techniques and the iframe construct do not permit this usage the developer of the target web page may specify only the uniform resource identifier URI of the resource web document to be embedded or imported which may be rendered wholly within the target web page .

A second set of examples that may illustrate some consequences inherent in the embedding techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of relates to security limitations or violations. In such scenarios the target server and the source server are often operated by different individuals in different roles e.g. employees of different organizations and the individuals operating one of the servers may intentionally or unintentionally exploit or misuse the resources of the other server while rendering together the web document of the target server potentially including various resources provided by the target server and the resources of the source server embedded in the target web page . As a first such example an interpretable script or executable binary provided by the source server may be configured to intercept communication between the user and the target server e.g. by accessing locally stored resources e.g. cookies associated with the target server and stored on the computer of the user or vice versa. As a second such example a resource provided by a source server may exploit the context of rendering within the target web page e.g. a security certificate provided to authenticate the identity of the web document and resources provided by the target server may inappropriately apply also to the resources provided by the source server . Such security problems may arise from the generation of the target web page by rendering together the resources of the source server and the web document and resources of the target server .

In order to reduce such security concerns web browsers often implement a cross domain restriction policy. In accordance with this policy a resource provided by a server for rendering within a web page may only communicate with the server and access the resources provided by the server and may neither communicate with another server nor access any resources provided by another server. This restriction is implemented by associating each resource with a domain of the server e.g. a web domain serving as a base address for all resources provided by the server . When a first resource attempts to contact a server or access a second resource the web browser compares the domains associated with the first resource and the server or second resource only permits the interaction if the first resource and the server or second resource belong to the same domain. For example a maliciously crafted resource executed on a computer of a user may attempt to access banking details of the user by contacting the banking server while impersonating the user by eavesdropping on communication between the user and the banking server and or by accessing a cookie or other resource of the banking server that is locally stored on the computer of the user . Such intrusion attempts may be obstructed through the implementation of a cross domain restriction policy such that the maliciously crafted resource not belonging to the domain of the banking server can neither contact the banking server nor access any resources of the banking server stored on the computer of the user or executing within a web browser of the computer . Each resource may therefore be isolated from the resources associated with other domains thereby improving the security and stability of the computer .

However the implementation of a cross domain restriction policy may create other consequences in the exemplary scenario of . For example the cross domain restriction policy may be incomplete or circumvented due to the rendering together of the resources of the source server and the web document and resources of the target server . For example in some embedding arrangements one of the target server and or the source server may have to extend a measure of trust to the other by permitting limited interaction and this trust may be exploited. As one such example in some embedding scenarios the target server may have to receive and store a resource from the source server and serve the resource directly to the computer of the user thereby creating an opportunity for the resource to exploit the access to the domain of the target server . Conversely the cross domain restriction policy may interfere with some legitimate types of interaction that the target server and or the source server may wish to implement. For example the target server may wish to permit a first resource rendered in the target web page to interact with a second resource also rendered in the target web page . However if both resources are rendered within the target web page the cross domain restriction policy may prohibit with such interactions. These and other consequences of the cross domain restriction policy may therefore interfere with the appearance and functionality of the resources of the target web page due to the rendering together of such resources with the web document of the target server according to the embedding techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of .

An additional problem illustrated in the exemplary scenario of involves the manner of rendering the resource of the source server within the target web page . In particular the entire resource is imported and rendered into the iframe e.g. the entire image hosted by the source server is thereby presented. However the developer of the target web page and or the source server may intend only a portion of the resource to appear such as a visual portion of a web document or a portion or a cropped portion of an image. For example in the exemplary scenario of the developer of the target web page may intend only the portion of the image depicting a particular product to appear in the target web page but may only be able to embed or encapsulate in an iframe the entire image comprising all of the images. These and other disadvantages may arise in traditional techniques for embedding or importation of resources in the target web site .

Presented herein are techniques for improving the presentation of a target web site including one or more aspects provided by a source server . In accordance with these techniques the target server may provide a target web page including a target region where the aspects provided by the source server are to appear e.g. an advertising area wherein an advertisement provided by an advertiser may be presented without embedding resources of the source server in the target web page . Rather the source server may provide a source web page which may be rendered by the web browser separately from the target web page . A particular source region of the source web page may be defined e.g. a coordinate set bounding an area of the source web page and the web browser may extract the source region of the source web page and present the source region within the target region of the target web page . The extraction may comprise e.g. cropping the display area of the source web page to the source region and then displaying this source region atop the target region of the target web page . Additionally the extracted source region continues to operate within the context of the source web page optionally interacting with other resources included in the source web page even if such resources are outside of the source region and are not displayed . However in contrast with the embedding techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of the presentation of the source region extracted from the source web page in the target region of the target web page does not involve embedding any resources of the source server in the target web page and such resources cannot interact with the web document and or the resources provided by the target server because the web pages are separately rendered and are as isolated from one another within the web browser as if rendered in separate web browser windows or separate tabs. These techniques therefore sustain the functionality of the resources of the source server as if operating natively on a source web page while also improving the isolation of such resources from the web document and the resources of the target server comprising the target web page .

The techniques illustrated in the exemplary scenario of may present some advantages particularly in comparison with the techniques presented in the exemplary scenario of . As a first example the specification of a source region may be adjusted in many ways in view of the presentation within a particular target region such as matching the dimensions of the target region . As a result the redevelopment of resources to achieve the adaptation of the source region to fit a target region may be reduced or eliminated thereby incurring a significant efficiency advantage. Moreover the target web page may include advertisements and mash ups may be generated simply by selecting different source regions of the source web page e.g. by specifying the coordinates bounding any desired area to be included in the target region . For example an advertisement for or portal to the source web page may be included as a source region within the target web page even if the selected area is not an actual advertisement but simply content presented on the source web page . Additionally the target web page may be able to include several source regions of the source web page within the target web page to create an advertisement or portal to the source web page with a new or adjusted layout or a mash up of the content of the source web page with content from the target web page and or other source web pages .

As a second set of advantages the features of the target web page such as may be specified in the web document and the resources of the target server and other source servers do not affect the presentation of the source region . For example the formatting of text specified in a cascading style sheet CSS associated with the target web page does not influence the formatting of text in the source region as it is rendered separately within a source web page . Additionally no features of the configuration of the target web page may affect the functionality of any resources presented within the source region if the source web page function acceptably when natively rendered by a web browser e.g. when a user visits the source web page these elements also function when extracted and presented within the target region of the target web page . Conversely the properties of the source region cannot affect the formatting layout for functionality of any aspect of the target web page . For example if the sizes of elements in the source region differ from the size of the target region as in the exemplary scenario of then such differences may affect the appearance within the target region e.g. only part of an image may appear and a portion laying outside of the boundaries of the source region may be cropped out and cannot affect any aspect of the appearance of the target web page outside of the target region .

As a third set of advantages presented in the exemplary scenario of the security issues involved in embedding resources in a target web page and the complexities of the cross domain restriction policy do not affect the presentation of the source region within the target region of the target web page . Rather the source region operates within the source domain of the source server as it is rendered simply as a source web page served by the source server while the remainder of the target web page is rendered within the target domain associated with the target server . According to the security policy of the web browser these different regions are as isolated from each other as separate web pages rendered within different web browser windows or within different web browser tabs. As a result the source region may be personalized for the user e.g. including personal content of the user such as account information of the user with the source web page or content that may be of personal interest to the user such as a personalized news feed. Moreover the source region may be personalized for the user without concern that the target web page may be able to interfere with such personalization due to the mutual isolation of the source region and the target web page as isolated within different renderings of different web pages. These and other advantages may be achieved according to the techniques presented herein.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. Such computer readable media may include e.g. computer readable storage media involving a tangible device such as a memory semiconductor e.g. a semiconductor utilizing static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM and or synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM technologies a platter of a hard disk drive a flash memory device or a magnetic or optical disc such as a CD R DVD R or floppy disc encoding a set of computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a device cause the device to implement the techniques presented herein. Such computer readable media may also include as a class of technologies that are distinct from computer readable storage media various types of communications media such as a signal that may be propagated through various physical phenomena e.g. an electromagnetic signal a sound wave signal or an optical signal and in various wired scenarios e.g. via an Ethernet or fiber optic cable and or wireless scenarios e.g. a wireless local area network WLAN such as WiFi a personal area network PAN such as Bluetooth or a cellular or radio network and which encodes a set of computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a device cause the device to implement the techniques presented herein.

An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of presenting a source region of a source web page in a target region of a target web page such as the exemplary method of . In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system for presenting a source region of a source web page in a target region of a target web page such as the exemplary system of . Some embodiments of this computer readable medium may comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk drive an optical disc or a flash memory device that is configured to store processor executable instructions configured in this manner. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein such techniques may be utilized. As a first variation these techniques may be utilized to present to a user many types of web sites and resources included therein wherein elements of a source web page are to appear in a target web page such as text rendered documents images audio or video recordings or applications. Additionally these scenarios may be based on an explicit or implicit cooperation of the target server and the source server such as an advertising relationship between an advertiser who wishes to present some advertisements within an advertising space of an advertising supported target web page . Alternatively these techniques may be used if the target server and the source server do not cooperate and even if the source server does not know about or consent to the inclusion of the source region in the target region of the target web page e.g. where the target web page comprises a mashup including content of the source web page and optionally of several source web pages to create a new set of content. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many such scenarios wherein the techniques presented herein may be utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of detecting the source region of the source web page and or the target region of the target web page . As a first example the target web page may identify the target region e.g. as a coordinate set bounding the target region within the target web page e.g. coordinates 50 50 to 100 200 or as a region having particular dimensions e.g. an area rendered within a position in the flow layout of the target web page having a size of 100 pixels 200 pixels . As a second example the source region of the source web page may be similarly defined by the source web page e.g. the source region defined by these coordinates within the source web page may be extracted for inclusion in target web pages or may be defined by the target web page e.g. the source region of the source web page defined by these coordinates is to be extracted and included in this target web page . The target web page may also specify a particular type of container wherein the source region may be rendered e.g. an iframe that may serve as a placeholder for the source region within the layout of the target web page . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of indicating the presence and areas defining the source region and or the target region while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of extracting the source region of the source web page and presenting the source region within the target region of the target web page . As a first variation the source region may be extracted in many ways such as by rendering the source web page in a non visible manner selecting a visible portion of the rendering of the source web page matching only the source region and positioning the rendering of the source web page so that the source region matches the target region of the target web page . In this example the entire source web page is logically rendered and all resources that are embedded in the source web page are processed so that any resources embedded within the source region may interact with resources embedded in the source web page outside of the source region as if the entire source web page were visible even though only the source region is visible to the user . Alternatively an embodiment may generate an extracted representation of the source region e.g. a snapshot such as a screen capture or a video recording and may present the extracted representation within the target region of the target web page .

As a second variation of this third aspect a source region of a source web page may be positioned within a target region of a target web page in many ways. If the properties of the target region e.g. the shape size and resolution match the properties of the source region the source region may simply be presented atop the target region . However the one or more properties of the target region may differ from those of the source region . As a first example of this second variation the source region may simply be positioned over the target region e.g. matching the centers or a particular corner of the source region and the target region and any portion of the source region not fitting within the target region may simply be cropped and or hidden. This hiding may lead to undesirable consequences e.g. showing only a portion of the contents of the source region but may preserve the layout of the target web page outside of the target region . Conversely if the source region is smaller than the target region the source region may simply be positioned e.g. centered within the target region and the remainder of the target region may be presented without adjustment e.g. using a background color or image specified by the target web page .

However in other examples of this second variation the source region may be adjusted in various ways. In keeping with the principles of the techniques presented herein it may be desirable to adjust the source region in a manner that does not alter the content and or functionality of the source region e.g. disproportionate scaling of the source region that may alter and distort the dimensions of the content presented therein . However some alterations may be acceptable and anticipated variations in the rendering of the source web page and that the source web page is designed to utilize while rendering. For example a user of a web browser may select certain properties of the web browser such as the dimensions of the browser window a zoom level of the content presented within the browser window and a general adjustment of the size of text rendered within the web browser e.g. large text vs. small text . Many web pages including the source web page may be designed to be rendered acceptably for many sets of such properties. Accordingly it may be acceptable to specify or adjust these same properties in the rendering of the source web page in order to extract the source region for presentation within a target region .

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to domain restrictions that may affect the functionality of resources presented in the source region or other portions of the source web page when presented in the target region of the target web page . In general because the source web page is served from the source server and rendered accordingly a cross domain restriction policy implemented by a web browser may associate and restrict the source web page with the source domain associated with the source server . Thus even though the target web page is restricted to a target domain and the source region is presented within the target region of the target web page the resources of the source region and the other resources included in the source web page are nevertheless associated with a source domain associated with a source server . Therefore the web browser may allow the resources of the source web page to communicate with the source server and to access any other resources also associated with the source domain including any locally stored source domain resources e.g. cookies stored on the computer of the user but may otherwise isolate the source web page such that the resources may neither communicate with any other source server nor the target server access resources associated with any other domain. Additionally the cross domain restriction policy may also prevent any resources not associated with the source domain e.g. other resources operating within the target web page from contacting the resources of the source web page including any locally stored source domain resources e.g. cookies associated with the source domain and from contacting the source server . These restrictions may be stronger and more consistent and therefore less vulnerable to circumvention than those applied to the resources embedded in the target web page in the exemplary scenario of . Additionally the cross domain restriction policy may provide less interference into some operations of the resources of the source web page since the entire source web page is now served from the source server and is therefore associated with the source domain .

A particular use of this cross domain isolation of locally stored source domain resources may arise in scenarios featuring an association of the user with the source server e.g. an account identity transaction or personally identifying information of the user that has been shared with the source server . The source server may often utilize this information to identify the user in order to personalize the source web page when presented to the user e.g. by including in the source web page information about the account of the user such as advertisements for related products and services or the interests and settings of the user such as a selected layout of the source web page that the user has previously selected . In particular the source web page may store some information as locally store source domain resources such as the username or account number of the user on the source web page and when the user requests to view the source web page may access such resources in order to identify the user and personalize the source web page . Moreover as a result of the techniques presented herein the source server may extend this personalization into the rendering of the source region presented in the target web page . This extension may occur without concern that the target web page may interfere with the locally stored source domain resources or even detect the personalization because the source web page is rendered as a completely different web page from the target web page despite the presentation of the source region within the target region .

Several additional variations in this restriction may present some additional features in view of the restrictions of the cross domain restriction policy of the web browser . As a first variation a target web page may include a second target region where a second source region of the source web page may be presented e.g. both a top banner and a bottom banner presented by the source server and extracted from different source regions of the same or different source web pages . However a developer of the first source region and the second source region may seek to enable the resources presented in these source regions to communicate e.g. in order to synchronize content the timing of animations or responses to user interactions by the user . This intercommunication may be achieved in various ways. As a first example of this first variation if the web browser recognizes that these source regions are extracted from the same source web page the web browser may render the source web page only once and may therefore extract both source regions from the same rendered instance of the source web page . Because these resources rendered into the same instance of the source web page and are restricted to the same source domain the resources may be able to communicate directly with one another e.g. through Javascript calls referencing each other. Additionally this example presents an improved efficiency over rendering two separate instances of the same source web page and extracting different source regions from different instances. 

This intercommunication may not be as easily achievable if the web browser does not render the source regions into the same instance of the source web page . However intercommunication between the resources of a first source region and a second source region may still be achievable through other examples of this first variation. As a second such example because the resources in both source regions are associated with the same source domain the resources may communicate through the source server . For example a first resource in the first source region may send a communication to the source server for delivery to a resource in the second source region and a second resource in the second source region may receive messages from the source server e.g. in a push or pull manner and may therefore receive the message from the first resource . As a third such example the resources may communicate through source domain resources e.g. cookies stored on the computer of the user . For example a first resource in the first source region may store a communication on the computer within a source domain resource and a second resource in the second source region may retrieve the source domain resource to receive the communication from the first resource .

As a second variation of this fourth aspect the cross domain restriction policy of the web browser may be relevant to user interactions of the user with one or more resources presented in the source region . As a first example of this second variation because the resources of the source region are associated with the source domain associated with the source server the resources may be permitted to notify the source server of the user interaction and optionally may utilize a source server response received from the source server to update the source region .

As a second example of this second variation the user interaction may result in a navigation to a different web page. For example the user may click on a hyperlink presented within a source region or the source region may respond to the user interaction e.g. a clicking of a button by sending the user to a second source web page provided by the source server . For example an advertisement for a product may encourage the user to click on the advertisement to visit another source web page that fully describes the product or includes a sales form. However due to the isolation of the source region form the rest of the target web page the source region may be unable to achieve this navigation by navigating away from the target web page nor in a pop over manner obstructing a portion of the target web page by exceeding the boundaries of the target region . Instead in a first such example the navigation may occur within the source region such that the source region presents the second source web page. In a second such example where the target page is presented in a first web page interface e.g. a web browser window presented on the display component of the computer or a tab within a web browser the navigation may cause the second source web page to be presented in a different web page interface. Accordingly an embodiment of these techniques may be configured to upon receiving the user interaction from the user with the source region instantiate a second web page interface e.g. a new web browser window or a new tab within the web browser and cause the web browser to render the second source web page and present the second source web page to the user within the second web page interface.

As a third example of this second variation in some scenarios a tracking server may be provided to track the user interactions of respective users with the resources presented in a source region . For example an advertising agency may be configured to track the user interactions of a user with an advertisement provided by a client and may utilize the information to provide advertising revenue to the target server and or to bill the clients for the advertising service. Accordingly the resources of the source region may be configured to notify the tracking server of user interactions received from respective users . However the association of the resources of the source region with the source domain may interfere with attempts to track the user interactions of the user . Because of the cross domain restriction policy the resources within the source region may be permitted to communicate only with the source server and not with the tracking server.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

