---

title: System and method for rapid assessment of lab value distributions
abstract: System and methods for rapid assessment of lab value distributions are provided. In one embodiment, the system includes a data storage device and a server. The data storage device may be configured to store a database comprising one or more records, wherein the records are identified by one or more test codes. The server may receive a medical code, search the database to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code, wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code, search the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population, wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code, and generate an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429186&OS=08429186&RS=08429186
owner: OptumInsight, Inc.
number: 08429186
owner_city: Eden Prairie
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100505
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 175 538 filed May 5 2009 the entire contents of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference without disclaimer.

This invention relates to health related data analysis and more particularly relates to a system and method for rapid assessment of lab value distributions between comparison groups.

Most corporations including health insurance corporations maintain a high volume of data. Such data may be analyzed and exploited for valuable information regarding business trends and other important statistics. Data mining is a common strategy for identifying and analyzing such data.

There are many various forms of data mining. Custom analytic operations may be developed to meet specific needs. Alternatively commercially available statistical analysis tools such as Statistical Analysis Software SAS may be used to identify statistical trends in data.

Health insurance companies typically maintain databases of health insurance claim information demographic information and other data about health insurance plan members. Such information may be used to gain valuable insights into early disease diagnosis relationship between lab tests and diseases or drug treatments and disease severity. Unfortunately typical methods for analyzing such data are often cumbersome costly and require unworkably high processing times and resources.

The referenced shortcomings are not intended to be exhaustive but rather are among many that tend to impair the effectiveness of previously known techniques in disease management diagnosis and treatment however those mentioned here are sufficient to demonstrate that the methodologies appearing in the art have not been satisfactory and that a significant need exists for the techniques described and claimed in this disclosure.

From the foregoing discussion it should be apparent that a need exists for a system and method to rapidly analyze discover and summarize differences in lab value distribution between comparison groups particularly in any temporal context of any temporal attribute.

A system is presented for rapid assessment of lab value distributions. In one embodiment the system includes a data storage device configured to store a database comprising one or more records wherein the records are identified by one or more test codes. The system may also include a server in data communication with the data storage device. The server may be suitably programmed to receive a medical code where lab values may include a range of interest search the database to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code search the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code and generate an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records.

In one embodiment the server may compare a first value representing the first group and a second value representing the second group of records. In a further embodiment the server may interpolate the first group of records to obtain the first value and to interpolate the second group of records to obtain the second value wherein the first and second values are associated with a shared percentile such as 5 32 50 95 or any intermediate percentile. For example values of median in both groups may be compared.

In a certain embodiment the server may count distinct records in the first group of records and the second group of records. The server may also aggregate records from the first group and from the second group according to a selected attribute such as a selected range of test values and or compute a probability in response to a ratio of a number of records in the first group having the selected attribute and a number of records in the second group having the selected attribute.

The server may further select the first group of records from within a time interval such as a time span e.g. about 30 days before or after of initial diagnosis or disease onset. In a further embodiment the server may select records in the first group and in the second group according to a limiting criterion such as a disease related parameter.

A method is also presented for comparing two groups of records to analyze their distribution discrepancy. In one embodiment the method includes receiving a medical code searching a database stored on a data storage device to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code searching the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code and generating an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records. The method in the disclosed embodiments substantially includes the steps necessary to carry out the functions presented above with respect to the operation of the system of the present invention.

The method may further include comparing a first value representing the first group and a second value representing the second group of records. Additionally the method may also include interpolating the first group of records to obtain the first value and interpolating the second group of records to obtain the second value wherein the first and second values are associated with a shared percentile such as any intermediate percentile from 5 95 or. In a particular embodiment median associated values may be compared.

In a certain embodiment the method may include counting distinct records in the first group of records and the second group of records. The method may also include aggregating records from the first group and from the second group according to a selected attribute such a test value or range. In a still another embodiment the method may also comprise computing a probability in response to a ratio of a number of records in the first group having the selected attribute and a number of records in the second group having the selected attribute.

To process records at any temporal interval related to a disease the method may further comprise selecting the first group of records from within a time interval. Such a time interval may be relative to the date or time of the individual s first occurrence of the disease associated with medical code or the date or time when the individual is first diagnosed. In a still further embodiment the method may comprise selecting records in the first group and in the second group according to a limiting criterion such as a disease related parameter age gender or the like.

There may be also provided a tangible computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having computer usable program code executable to perform operations comprising receiving a medical code searching a database stored on a data storage device to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code searching the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code and generating an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records.

The operations may further include comparing a first value representing the first group and a second value representing the second group of records. Moreover the operations may include interpolating the first group of records to obtain the first value and interpolating the second group of records to obtain the second value wherein the first and second values are associated with a shared percentile.

In a certain embodiment the operations may include counting distinct records in the first group of records and the second group of records. The operations may also include aggregating records from the first group and from the second group according to a selected attribute. In still another embodiment the operations may also include computing a probability in response to a ratio of a number of records in the first group having the selected attribute and a number of records in the second group having the selected attribute.

For a temporal analysis the operations may further comprise selecting the first group of records from within a time interval. In a still further embodiment the operations may also include selecting records in the first group and in the second group according to a limiting criterion such as a disease related parameter age gender or the like.

For a record with multiple lab test values the record could comprise an average a first reading or a last reading of a test. To further analyze disease associated parameters each record in the first group of records may share a limiting criterion with each record in the second group of records for example those records in the first and second group may have the same age range gender or geographic residence. Furthermore the control population could be a normal group or a cohort group. In certain aspects the distribution graph may be a histogram or any format suitable for presenting a distribution.

The term associated is referred to as connected or related. The term coupled is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

The term substantially and its variations are defined as being largely but not necessarily wholly what is specified as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and in one non limiting embodiment substantially refers to ranges within 10 preferably within 5 more preferably within 1 and most preferably within 0.5 of what is specified.

The terms comprise and any form of comprise such as comprises and comprising have and any form of have such as has and having include and any form of include such as includes and including and contain and any form of contain such as contains and containing are open ended linking verbs. As a result a method or device that comprises has includes or contains one or more steps or elements possesses those one or more steps or elements but is not limited to possessing only those one or more elements. Likewise a step of a method or an element of a device that comprises has includes or contains one or more features possesses those one or more features but is not limited to possessing only those one or more features. Furthermore a device or structure that is configured in a certain way is configured in at least that way but may also be configured in ways that are not listed.

Other features and associated advantages will become apparent with reference to the following detailed description of specific embodiments in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Various features and advantageous details are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known starting materials processing techniques components and equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements within the spirit and or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure.

Certain units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. A module is a self contained hardware or software component that interacts with a larger system. Alan Freedman The Computer Glossary 268 8th ed. 1998 . A module comprises a component of a machine a machine or a plurality of machines that are suitably programmed to operate according to executable instructions. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices a controller or the like.

Modules may also include software defined units or instructions that when executed by a processing machine or device retrieve and transform data stored on a data storage device from a first state to a second state. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and when executed by the processor achieve the stated data transformation.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices.

In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of the present embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

In one embodiment the user interface device is referred to broadly and is intended to encompass a suitable processor based device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a mobile communication device or organizer device having access to the network . In a further embodiment the user interface device may access the Internet to access a web application or web service hosted by the server and provide a user interface for enabling a user to enter or receive information. For example the user may enter a medical code a test code a time interval a limiting criterion a selected attribute for generating an output or the like.

The network may facilitate communications of data between the server and the user interface device . The network may include any type of communications network including but not limited to a direct PC to PC connection a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a modem to modem connection the Internet a combination of the above or any other communications network now known or later developed within the networking arts which permits two or more computers to communicate one with another.

In one embodiment the server is suitably programmed to receive a medical code where lab values may include a range of interest search the database to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code search the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code and generate an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records. Additionally the server may access data stored in the data storage device via a Storage Area Network SAN connection a LAN a data bus or the like.

The data storage device may include a hard disk including hard disks arranged in an Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID array a tape storage drive comprising a magnetic tape data storage device an optical storage device or the like. In one embodiment the data storage device may store health related data such as insurance claims data consumer data or the like. The data may be arranged in a database and accessible through Structured Query Language SQL queries or other data base query languages or operations.

In one embodiment the server may submit a query to selected data storage devices to collect a consolidated set of data elements associated with an individual or group of individuals. The server may store the consolidated data set in a consolidated data storage device . In such an embodiment the server may refer back to the consolidated data storage device to obtain a set of data elements associated with a specified individual or group. Alternatively the server may query each of the data storage devices independently or in a distributed query to obtain the set of data elements associated with a specified individual or group. In another alternative embodiment multiple databases may be stored on a single consolidated data storage device .

In various embodiments the server may communicate with the data storage devices over the data bus . The data bus may comprise a SAN a LAN or the like. The communication infrastructure may include Ethernet Fibre Chanel Arbitrated Loop FC AL Small Computer System Interface SCSI and or other similar data communication schemes associated with data storage and communication. For example there server may communicate indirectly with the data storage devices the server may first communicate with a storage server or storage controller .

In one example of the system the first data storage device may store data associated with clinical data that may be comprised in insurance claims made by one or more individuals. The clinical data may include data associated with medical services procedures and prescriptions utilized by the individual. In one embodiment the second data storage device may store diagnosis data associated with the individual. The diagnosis data may include one or more diagnoses of conditions which the individual suffers from or is at risk of. The third data storage device may store lab test data associated with the individual. For example the third data storage device may include data associated with the individual s lab test results and or clinical observations. A fourth data storage device not shown may store demographic data. For example the demographic data may include information relating to the individual s demographics include gender race or ethnicity age income disabilities mobility educational attainment home ownership employment status location or the like.

The server may host a software application configured for rapid assessment of lab value distributions. The software application may further include modules for interfacing with the data storage devices interfacing a network interfacing with a user and the like. In a further embodiment the server may host an engine application plug in or application programming interface API . In another embodiment the server may host a web service or web accessible software application.

The computer system also may include Random Access Memory RAM which may be SRAM DRAM SDRAM or the like. The computer system may utilize RAM to store the various data structures used by a software application suitably programmed for rapid assessment of lab value distributions. The computer system may also include Read Only Memory ROM which may be PROM EPROM EEPROM optical storage or the like. The ROM may store configuration information for booting the computer system . The RAM and the ROM hold user and system data.

The computer system may also include an input output I O adapter a communications adapter a user interface adapter and a display adapter . The I O adapter and or the user interface adapter may in certain embodiments enable a user to interact with the computer system in order to input information for authenticating a user identifying an individual or group receiving health profile information or entering information like a medical code a test code a temporal range a percentile a limiting criterion or a selected test value range. In a further embodiment the display adapter may display a graphical user interface associated with a software or web based application for generating an output comprising a distribution graph.

The I O adapter may connect to one or more storage devices such as one or more of a hard drive a Compact Disk CD drive a floppy disk drive a tape drive to the computer system . The communications adapter may be adapted to couple the computer system to the network which may be one or more of a LAN and or WAN and or the Internet. The user interface adapter may couple user input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device to the computer system . The display adapter may be driven by the CPU to control the display on the display device .

The present embodiments are not limited to the architecture of system . Rather the computer system is provided as an example of one type of computing device that may be adapted to perform the functions of a server and or the user interface device . For example any suitable processor based device may be utilized including without limitation including personal data assistants PDAs computer game consoles and multi processor servers. Moreover the present embodiments may be implemented on application specific integrated circuits ASIC or very large scale integrated VLSI circuits. In fact persons of ordinary skill in the art may utilize any number of suitable structures capable of executing logical operations according to the described embodiments.

The network based system may include components or devices configured to operate in various network layers. For example the server may include modules configured to work within an application layer a presentation layer a data access layer and a metadata layer . In a further embodiment the server may access one or more data sets that comprise a data layer or data tier . For example a first data set a second data set and a third data set may comprise a data tier that is stored on one or more data storage devices .

One or more web applications may operate in the application layer . For example a user may interact with the web application though one or more I O interfaces and configured to interface with the web application through an I O adapter that operates on the application layer. In one particular embodiment a web application may be provided for rapid assessment of lab value distributions that includes software modules configured to perform the steps of receiving a medical code searching a database stored on a data storage device to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group of records is identified by a test code searching the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group of records is identified by the test code and generating an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records.

In a further embodiment the server may include components devices hardware modules or software modules configured to operate in the presentation layer to support one or more web services . For example a web application may access or provide access to a web service to perform one or more web based functions for the web application . In one embodiment a web application may operate on a first server and access one or more web services hosted on a second server not shown during operation.

For example a web application for identifying diagnostic records and or analyzing diagnostic data or other information may access a first web service for identifying records of a first group of individuals associated with a diagnostic code and a second web service for identifying a control population such as a normal group or a cohort group. The web services may receive a medical code. In response the web service may return data associated with individuals having the medical code statistics distributions graphs or the like. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize various web based architectures employing web services for modular operation of a web application .

In one embodiment a web application or a web service may access one or more of the data sets through the data access layer . In certain embodiments the data access layer may be divided into one or more independent data access layers DALs for accessing individual data sets in the data tier . These individual data access layers may be referred to as data sockets or adapters. The data access layers may utilize metadata from the metadata layer to provide the web application or the web service with specific access to the data set .

For example the data access layer may include operations for performing a query of the data sets to retrieve specific information for the web application or the web service . In a more specific example the data access layer may include a query for records associated with individuals who have been diagnosed with a particular disease such as diabetes or who are associated with a medical code where lab values may include a range of interest such as an ICD 9 code associated with a diagnosis of diabetes.

In one embodiment the server may include one or more software defined modules configured to search a dataset on a data storage device to obtain a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code wherein each record of the first group is identified by a test code search the database to obtain a second group of records associated with a control population wherein each record of the second group is identified by the test code and generate an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first and second group of records. In one embodiment these modules may include an interface module a first search module a second search module and a distribution module . Optionally the server may also include a discovery module as described in further detail below with relation to .

Generally the interface module may receive user inputs and display user outputs. For example the interface module may receive a medical code. The interface module may further receive one or more test codes temporal interval limiting criterion percentile selected test value ranges and or other user inputs. In a further embodiment the interface module may display discovery or detailed distribution analysis results. Such analysis results may include statistics tables charts graphs recommendations and the like.

Structurally the interface module may include one or more of an I O adapter a communications adapter a user interface adapter and or a display adapter . The interface module may further include I O ports pins pads wires busses and the like for facilitating communications between the CPU and the various adapters and interface components . The interface module may also include software defined components for interfacing with other software modules on the server .

In a specific embodiment the server may load and execute computer software configured to generate retrieve send or otherwise operate SQL instructions. For example the first search module may communicate a first SQL query to the data storage device which is configured to search the database for a first group of records associated with individuals having the medical code and identified by the test code.

The medical code may include a medical code used to group and identify diseases disorders symptoms or medical signs and stored in a database of healthcare insurance information a medical code indicative of a risk of developing a pathologic or disease condition or a medical code identifying a treatment or a procedure. In a specific embodiment the first search operation may identify a first group of individuals having records that include a specified ICD 9 medical code. For example the first search may identify a first group of records in the database associated with individuals that have been diagnosed with diabetes. In another embodiment the medical code may represent a risk such as a metabolic syndrome which is characterized by a group of metabolic risk factors or a combination of medical disorders that increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease and diabetes. In a further embodiment the medical code may include an identification or classification of individuals after treatment with one or more drugs or procedures for post treatment or post procedure diagnosis.

In an additional embodiment the test code may be a code or classification for identifying a laboratory test or a clinical test or observation such as a LOINC code Logical Observations Identifiers Names Codes a universal code system for reporting laboratory and other clinical observations. For each observation the database may include a code of which 25 000 are laboratory test observations a long formal name a short 30 character name and synonyms. It was identified by the Health Level Seven HL7 Standards Development Organization as a preferred code set for laboratory test names in transactions between health care facilities laboratories laboratory testing devices and public health authorities.

A record may comprise multiple lab test values identified by a common test code wherein an average first reading or last reading or the like of the multiple values can be used to represent a data point for this record.

The first or second search may also involve a temporal component to aggregate records. If a test code has a time aspect the searches may obtain multiple records associated with the same individual but identified by a set of test codes at different time point within a common time interval. Those records may be processed e.g. averaged to yield a data value representing the time interval associated with the individual.

In certain aspects the first search module may be configured to search the database for a first group of records within a selected temporal interval while matching the test code and medical code. Specifically the first search module may generate a first search query configured to retrieve for a first group of records within a selected temporal interval while matching the test code and medical code. In a further embodiment the first group of records may include a temporal component which may specify a time period before during or after an event such as a diagnosis a disease or disorder or onset a procedure or a drug treatment. In a particular aspect the first group of records may be from within a clean period or disease free period before the individuals are diagnosed with a disease or a disorder for example from within about 30 60 120 or 180 days before a diabetic diagnosis.

The second search module may generate and or communicate a second SQL query to the database in response to or independent of the results of the first SQL query. The second query may be configured to search the database for a second group of records each record in the second group of records identified with the same test code as that identify the records in the first group but associated with a control population. The second group of records may be cohorts of the first group of records or records of a normal group or all records identified by the test code in the database or records filtered by a limiting criterion which is shared by the first group of records. Such a limiting criterion may include a field value that indicates certain specified characteristics of the individuals associated with the records such as age gender lab tests lab results other diseases or diagnoses use of medication and the like. In a certain embodiment the second group of records may also have a temporal component or are associated with a temporal interval for example each record in the second group may be associated with individuals having at least three years of record in the database.

By way of example the first search module may identify a first group of individuals that have been diagnosed with diabetes or some other illness based on an ICD 9 medical code associated with such a medical diagnosis. The second search module may then identify cohorts for each individual or record identified by the first search. The cohorts may share one or more common second index attributes with the individuals or records identified in the first group such as age gender or the like however the cohorts would not have the medical code. In this example the cohorts may be the same age and gender as the individuals in the first group but not have been diagnosed with diabetes.

In another embodiment the second search module may generate a group of records associated with a normal group such as a relatively normal group of individuals not associated with the medical code used in the first search or a normal group of disease free individuals a master group of records which include test values associated with each lab test and lab test unit stored in the database or a group of filtered records associated with a selected limiting criterion which can be created before during or after the first search or dynamically at run time applying any desired limiting criterion such as age or gender.

In a further embodiment the first search module and the second search module may be integrated into a single search module. Specifically a single set of SQL instructions may be used to both identify the first group of records and identify the second group of records. The benefits of this embodiment may include reduced system overhead reduced search and analysis time reduced labor for configuration and generation of queries etc. For example with a single integrated SQL query a user may be able to obtain results for analysis in far less time than the user might otherwise expect. Such an embodiment may not require separate analysis and generation of separate queries for the first group and the second group. Consequently a significant time savings may be realized.

In one embodiment the discovery module may discover one or more lab tests relating to disease diagnosis or treatment evaluation. In order to do so the discovery module may extract the difference between representative values from the first and second group of records identified by the same test code but associated with different diagnosis status. For example the discovery module may include analogue or digital logic firmware or software configured to carry out one or more discoveries according to one or more predefined logic functions. In a further embodiment the server may include a software defined discovery module configured to perform analysis and comparison of the information and data retrieved from the database for the first group of records and the associated second group of records.

In a specific embodiment the first search module and the second search module may feed retrieved data into a spreadsheet configured to perform one or more calculations on the data. For example an Excel spreadsheet may include one or more embedded functions or operations configured to calculate statistics such as percentages averages odds ratios and other probabilities counts summations and the like. The data may be automatically imported into a spreadsheet using a macro a software based script or the like. In an alternative embodiment the discovery module may include hard coded or dynamically variable software functions for calculating such statistics and generating results for a user. In a further embodiment the discovery module may also create outputs such as statistics tables charts graphs recommendations and the like and particularly identify one or more test codes that indicate a significant difference between two groups of records based on a selected discovery threshold or criterion. Significant difference may be referred to as a statistically significant difference such as a significance level of 5 1 or 0.1 .

In a further embodiment the filter module may narrow the first group or second group of records according to a limiting criterion. The filter module may narrow the first or second group of records by restricting search parameters before the first or second search is performed. Alternatively the filter module may filter remove or otherwise delete the search results according to the limiting criterion. In a certain embodiment multiple limiting criteria may be used to restrict the scope of the returned search results. In one embodiment a limiting criterion may include a field value such as record date age gender or the like.

In an alternative embodiment an SQL command generated by the server or stored in RAM or on the data storage device may include instructions that when executed by a storage controller or the CPU on the server may perform a search for records matching the limiting criterion before or in combination with the first or second search. In a specific embodiment an SQL operation embedded with the first or second search may activate the filter.

In a certain embodiment the discovery module may include an interpolation module configured to derive a percentile value from the first group or the second group of records for comparison. The percentile may be any one ranging from 1 to 99 such as a median 5 32 or 95 . The interpolation function may involve fitting a function to the data comprised in the records and evaluating that function at the desired point or calculate the interpolated data by statistical methods. For example interpolation methods may include a linear interpolation a piecewise constant interpolation a polynomial interpolation a spline interpolation or a non linear interpolation such as an interpolation via Gaussian processes. In a specific embodiment an SQL command may be generated by the serve or the interpolation module for calculating a percentile value from the first or second group of records. For example such an SQL command may be designed similarly as that exemplified in for linear interpolation from a group of data points.

In a further embodiment the representative values of the corresponding percentile of both groups may be processed by a comparison module . For example such a comparison module may generate an output comprising a graph showing the difference between the two corresponding values like a percentage shift of the first value associated with the medical code from the second value associated with a control group. For a particular medical code a plurality of test codes may be assembled by the comparison module to show the shift of the diagnosed group from the control group as exemplified in . The relative degree of the shift associated with a test code may represent its relevance with the medical code and usefulness in the diagnosis.

In one embodiment the distribution module may include a count module configured to count distinct records in the first group of records and the second group of records. The counting function may be implemented using a hardware based counter. Alternatively the counting function may be implemented in a software. In a specific embodiment the server or CPU may execute SQL instructions configured to provide the record count in response to search or query results. In such an embodiment the counting function may be integrated with the search and filter instructions into a single set of SQL commands or instructions.

In a further embodiment the distribution module may include an aggregation module configured to aggregate records from the first group and from the second group according to a selected attribute such as a series of bucket ranges created manually or derived empirically. The server may also include other modules for computing formatting and otherwise producing statistics including a compute module and an output module . The compute module may compute a probability in response to a ratio of a number of records in the first group having the selected attribute and a number of records in the second group having the selected attribute. The output module may generate format and provide a graphical representation of the statistics. These modules may be stand alone modules implemented in hardware firmware or software. Alternatively the functions may be accomplished through commercial calculation products or spreadsheets software or SQL instructions that are integrated with the other functions of the server . In a specific embodiment the distribution module including some or all of its component modules may communicate the statistics with the interface module for display or communication to a user.

Although the various functions of the server and the CPU or processor are described in the context of modules the methods processes and software described herein are not limited to a modular structure. Rather some or all of the functions described in relation to the modules of may be implemented in various formats including but not limited to a single set of integrated instructions commands code queries etc. In one embodiment the functions may be implemented in database query instructions including SQL PLSQL or the like. Alternatively the functions may be implemented in software coded in C C C php Java or the like. In still another embodiment the functions may be implemented in web based instructions including HTML XML etc.

The schematic flow chart diagrams that follow are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

The server may then issue a command to search the database for a second group of records. Each record in the second group of records may share a common test code with a record in the first group of records but is associated with a control population a majority of which does not have the medical code. For example SQL query issued by the server may also include a query statement to search for a second group of individuals each individual having the same age and or gender as an individual identified in the first group but not having the diabetes medical code in their record. These individuals in the second group may be considered cohorts of the individuals in the first group of records. In another embodiment the second group of records may be associated with a normal group which may include all health or disease free individuals or a group including all individuals with records available in the database of all time points or a specific time period.

The server may then receive the results from the database searches and . The distribution module may then generate an output comprising a distribution graph on a shared scale from the first group of records and the second group of records. For example a spreadsheet program may calculate distribution of records identified by the test code in the presence of the received medical code as compared with those of a control group. The distribution may include averages probabilities and other computational products including identification of trends and commonalities among the records.

Limiting criteria may include windowing values configured to limit or restrict the time frames from which records will be searched restrictions on minimum enrollment time minimum number of records gender restrictions age restrictions weight restrictions physical conditions healthcare patterns other diagnoses or identified lab values and other similar threshold and limiting values. The filter module may incorporate the limiting criterion into a query used to filter the records by the limiting criterion before during or after the search or the search . For example the query may search for all records associated with individuals that have been diagnosed with diabetes but the query may be restricted to return only results associated with individuals that have at least two years worth of records in the database. In a further embodiment the filter module may use the same limiting criterion for both searches to identify a cohort for the first group of records. Specific time interval relative to the diagnosis associated with the medical code may be also used to filter records to assess lab value distributions at the specific time interval.

For the discovery module the interpolation module may interpolate percentile values from both group of records according to a received or selected percentile. An example of interpolation is illustrated in . The price records in may be replaced by health care records. The server may send such an SQL instruction based on to interpolate different percentile values of the records as exemplified in for records in the presence of a plurality of test codes e.g. LOINC code listed in the first column in the presence of a common medical code 292.4 representing thalassemia. In a further embodiment the comparison module may compare the corresponding percentile values of both groups and generate an output comprising a graph showing the comparison such as a percentage shift of the median of the first group in the presence of thalassemia from the median of the second group associated with a normal population for multiple LOINC codes in . Discovery may help identify or confirm test codes that may be potentially relevant for a particular medical code and may be used for disease diagnosis or prediction as well as treatment evaluation. However discovery steps of those test codes may be optional for example these steps may not be necessary for test codes known to be associated with the medical code.

In the distribution module records may also be retrieved by search and and optionally filter . In an embodiment the count module may count distinct records in both groups for a total number of records and also records in each aggregated category as the aggregation module may aggregate records from the first group and from the second group according to a selected attribute such as a series of bucketed ranges of test values for distribution. An example of aggregation is illustrated in . The compute module may then compute an odds ratio an average or some other mathematical statistic and the output module may generate an output comprising one or more distribution graphs to display one or more statistics calculated by the server . For example the graph may be a histogram as illustrated in .

In a specific example the server may send a single set of SQL instruction to perform the first search perform the second search and other searching functions such as filtering .

In a further embodiment the SQL instructions may include instructions for interpolating percentile values from both groups. In a still further embodiment the SQL instructions may also include comparing the corresponding percentile values and generate an output comprising a graph showing the comparison for example in the format of percentage shift which may also be ranked by the degree of shift. For example one embodiment of SQL instructions that may be used to perform the method of may include 

In a further embodiment the SQL instructions may include instructions for counting distinct records and or aggregating the records. In still another embodiment the same set of SQL instructions may include functions for generating an output comprising a probability distribution graph by computing statistics such as the odds ratio of a specified test value or range within the records. One particular embodiment of SQL instructions that may be used to perform the method of may include 

The limiting criteria may also include an aggregation window or time frame for collecting records associated with the individual. The aggregation window variable may include a time frame before or after the occurrence of the medical code from which to collect records. For example the filter module may only collect records for two years prior to the occurrence of the medical code and for ninety days after the occurrence of the medical code.

All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the systems and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. In addition modifications may be made to the disclosed apparatus and components may be eliminated or substituted for the components described herein where the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

