---

title: Method, system and apparatus for remote data searching
abstract: A method and apparatus for remote searching of data stored on a communication device is provided. The communication device is generally in communication with a server for tracking data associated with the communication device and data associated with a synchronizable computing device, synchronizable with the communication device. An index of data stored at the communication device is maintained at the server, the index for distinguishing the data stored at the communication device from data stored at the synchronizable computing device. A searchable copy of data stored on the communication device cross-referenced to the index is maintained, the searchable copy searchable using search parameter data received from the communication device to produce search results transmittable back to the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429122&OS=08429122&RS=08429122
owner: Research in Motion Limited
number: 08429122
owner_city: Waterloo, ON
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100521
---
The specification relates generally to computing devices and specifically to a method system and apparatus for remote data searching.

As the storage abilities of mobile electronic devices grow it becomes more challenging to search for data both on and off a device the processing capability of such devices is generally limited as are the power capabilities. As a rule of thumb the larger the data is on a device then the longer it takes to find a data e.g. document e mail being searched for. Furthermore to minimize power consumption searching algorithms usually do not do any in depth searching but just simple string comparisons hence the results may not be useful. While remote searching of data has been suggested such remote searching generally occurs upon a larger body of data than is stored on the device and hence search results may not be pertinent to data stored at the device to view the data contained in the search results it may be necessary to request the data from a remote device.

A first aspect of the specification provides a method for remote searching of data stored on a communication device the communication device in communication with a server for tracking data associated with the communication device and data associated with a synchronizable computing device synchronizable with the communication device. The method comprises maintaining at the server an index of data stored at the communication device the index for distinguishing the data stored at the communication device from data stored at the synchronizable computing device. The method further comprises maintaining a searchable copy of data stored on the communication device cross referenced to the index the searchable copy searchable using search parameter data received from the communication device to produce search results transmittable back to the communication device.

The method can further comprise receiving from the communication device the search parameter data searching the searchable copy using the search parameter data to produce the search results and transmitting the search results to the communication device. The method can further comprise synchronizing the index of data and the searchable copy with the data stored at the communication device prior to searching the searchable copy.

The method can further comprise synchronizing the index of data and the searchable copy with the data stored at the communication device.

The index of data can include respective locations of the data stored at the communication device. The search results can comprise respective locations of the search results on the communication device.

The data stored on the communication device can comprise at least one of message data attachments to messages calendar data contact data note data memo data and task data.

The searchable copy can be maintained at at least one of the server and a remote computing device in communication with the server.

A second aspect of the specification provides a server for remote searching of data stored on a communication device. The server comprises a communication interface enabled to communicate with the communication device and a synchronizable computing device synchronizable with the communication device. The server further comprises a memory enabled to store an index of data stored at the communication device. The server further comprises a processing unit in communication with the communication interface and the memory the processing unit enabled to track data associated with the communication device and data associated with the synchronizable computing device maintain the index of data the index for distinguishing the data stored at the communication device from data stored at the synchronizable computing device and maintain a searchable copy of data stored on the communication device cross referenced to the index the searchable copy searchable using search parameter data received from the communication device to produce search results transmittable back to the communication device.

The processing unit can be further enabled to receive from the communication device via the communication interface the search parameter data search the searchable copy using the search parameter data to produce the search results and transmit the search results to the communication device via the communication interface. The processing unit further can be enabled to synchronize the index of data and the searchable copy with the data stored at the communication device prior to the searching the searchable copy.

The processing unit can be further enabled to synchronize the index of data and the searchable copy with the data stored at the communication device.

The index of data can include respective locations of the data stored at the communication device. The search results comprise respective locations of the search results on the communication device.

The data stored on the communication device can comprise at least one of message data attachments to messages calendar data contact data note data memo data and task data.

The searchable copy can be maintained at at least one of the memory and a remote computing device in communication with the server.

A third aspect of the specification provides a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for remote searching of data stored on a communication device the communication device in communication with a server for tracking data associated with the communication device and data associated with a synchronizable computing device synchronizable with the communication device. The method comprises maintaining at the server an index of data stored at the communication device the index for distinguishing the data stored at the communication device from data stored at the synchronizable computing device. The method further comprises maintaining a searchable copy of data stored on the communication device cross referenced to the index the searchable copy searchable using search parameter data received from the communication device to produce search results transmittable back to the communication device.

Communication device is in communication with a server via a link . The link can be wireless or wireless as desired link can further comprise any suitable communication network. In general server is enabled to track data associated with communication device and data associated with a synchronizable computing device in communication with server via a communications network . In some embodiments link can comprise communication network . Furthermore communication device can be synchronized with computing device via server in any desired manner.

However computing resources at communication device are generally less powerful than computing resources at computing device e.g. i.e. communication device will generally comprise a slower processor and have less memory than computing device . Hence data at communication device is generally a subset of data at computing device . For example computing device can be enabled to store thousands of e mails e.g. data while communication device can be enabled to store a subset e.g. data of the thousands of e mails. In some non limiting embodiments computing device comprises a MAPI Messaging Application Programming Interface server and communication device comprises a mobile communication device such as PDA Personal Digital Assistant enabled to receive and process messages e mail.

In any event communication device generally comprises any suitable communication computing device including but not limited a laptop computer a PDA a cellphone and the like and or a combination.

In an event communication device generally comprises any suitable communication computing device including but not limited a laptop computer a PDA a cellphone and the like and or a combination.

Communication device comprises a communication interface enabled to communicate with server interface being generally compatible with link . That is if link comprises a wireless link interface is enabled to communicate wirelessly using any suitable protocol including but not limited to WiFi WiMax and or cellular telephone protocols and or if link comprises a wired link then interface is enabled to communicate via a wired link including but not limited to both remote and local links such as USB serial cables and or a wired communication network using any suitable wired protocol.

Communication device further comprises a memory for storing data . Memory can comprise any suitable memory device including but not limited to random access memory RAM removable memory memory cards hard disks and the like.

Communication device further comprises a processor in communication with interface and memory for example via a suitable computer bus not depicted . Processor comprises any suitable processor including but limited to a central processing unit CPU .

Communication device can also be in communication with any suitable input device or combination of input devices. Input device is generally enabled to receive input data and can comprise any desired combination of suitable input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a track wheel a touchpad a touch screen and the like.

Communication device can also be in communication with any suitable display device . The display device can include but is not limited to a flat panel display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD plasma and the like a cathode ray tube CRT a computer monitor and the like. Display device comprises circuitry for generating a representation of data or any other suitable data including but not limited to graphical user interfaces GUI . Display device can include any suitable combination of CRT and or flat panel displays e.g. LCD plasma and the like and circuitry can include any suitable combination of circuitry for controlling the CRT and or flat panel displays etc. including but not limited to display buffers transistors electron beam controllers LCD cells plasmas cells phosphors etc. In particular display device and circuitry can be controlled by processor unit to generate representation .

Server generally comprises any suitable computing device for tracking data and data . Server can also be enabled to manage synchronization of data between communications device and computing device in any suitable manner. For example if data is deleted at communication device corresponding data within data can be deleted in some embodiments but is not deleted in other embodiments. Server generally manages these processes and to keep communication device and computing device synchronized in accordance with pre defined synchronization rules and or commands from communication device and or computing device .

Server generally comprises a communication interface which can be similar to interface interface generally compatible with link and for communication with computing device via communications network . Server further comprises a memory for storing an index of data stored at communication device and a searchable copy of data stored on communication device cross referenced to index . In particular index distinguishes data stored at communication device from data stored at synchronizable computing device . For example data is generally transmitted to communication device via server and data is generally transmitted to computing device via server with data generally comprising a subset of data . In the prior art servers similar to server do not always track data and data and or distinguish between data and data and do not distinguish between data and data when performing a remote search. Hence index generally enables server to distinguish between data and data by indexing data stored at communication device .

Server further comprises a processor for tracking data data managing synchronization between communication device and computing device maintaining index and maintaining copy . Processor is further enabled to process search parameter data received from communication device to search copy as described below with reference to .

Index generally comprises a list of identifiers of each data . . . stored at communication device . For example system is generally enabled to deliver data to communications device via server server can then be generally enabled to assign an identifier ID to each respective data . . . before it is transmitted to communications device each identifier ID for distinguishing each data from one another. For example an identifier ID of each respective data . . . can comprise a unique and or computationally unique identifier including but not limited to consecutively assigned alphanumeric identifiers and a hash of each respective data though any suitable identifier is within the scope of present embodiments. Identifier ID can be transmitted to communications device along with data identifier ID and data stored in memory . Furthermore identifier ID is added to index in memory and data is added to copy . In some alternative embodiments data can be processed into a more searchable format e.g. unformatted text before being added to copy .

In any event index enables server to distinguish data and data for example in embodiments where memory stores a copy of at least a subset of data that is not in data .

In further embodiments index can comprise a location ML of each data in memory . In these embodiments once data is stored in memory communications device can transmit location ML to server along with identifier ID where location ML is added to index .

While Table 1 is comprised of rows and columns index can comprise any suitable format. Furthermore while Table 1 can have any suitable number of rows and any suitable number of columns. In this embodiment Table 1 comprises two columns one for Data Identifier and one for Memory Location a header row comprising the text Data Identifier and Memory Location and a number of rows corresponding to data in a one to one relationship. Each Data Identifier ID ID . . . ID comprises an identifier of corresponding data . . . as described above. Furthermore each Memory Location comprises a location of corresponding respective data in memory .

Copy can comprise data stored in any suitable format. As described above in some embodiments data can be processed into a more searchable format e.g. unformatted text before being added to copy . In some non limiting embodiments index comprises Table 2 where data is cross referenced to index using identifiers ID 

While Table 2 is comprised of rows and columns copy can comprise any suitable format. Furthermore while Table 2 can have any suitable number of rows and any suitable number of columns. In this embodiment Table 2 comprises two columns one for Data Identifier and one for Data a header row comprising the text Data Identifier and Data and a number of rows corresponding to data in a one to one relationship. Each Data Identifier ID ID . . . ID comprises an identifier of corresponding data . . . as described above. Furthermore each Data comprises data stored in any suitable format.

Attention is now directed to which depicts a method for remote searching of data stored on a communication device. In order to assist in the explanation of the method it will be assumed that the method is performed using the system and in particular server . Furthermore the following discussion of the method will lead to a further understanding of the system and its various components. However it is to be understood that the system and or the method can be varied and need not work exactly as discussed herein in conjunction with each other and that such variations are within the scope of present embodiments.

At step data is synchronized with index by transmitting synchronization notifications between communications device and server using any suitable manner. For example if given data is deleted from memory communication device can be enabled to transit a delete notification to server which can be processed by processor such that index and copy are updated to delete the corresponding identifier ID and data . Similarly if data is modified at communication device communication device can be enabled to transit a modification notification to server which can be processed by processor such that copy is updated to modify data in these embodiments index is modified if memory location ML of data is modified. Finally in some embodiments information can be added to data at the communication device for example via input device and or via addition of data stored on a removable memory e.g. a flash memory and or a wired synchronization with a computing device other than computing device connected directly to communication device the synchronization bypassing server . In these embodiments new data can be created at communication device communication device can be enabled to transit an addition notification to server including the new data which can be processed by processor such that index and copy are updated accordingly. In these embodiments further data can be exchanged between communication device and server in the generation and assignment of an identifier ID to new data such that data index and copy are synchronized.

In some embodiments step can occur on an on going basis as each change to data occurs in that when data is deleted modified or added to then the corresponding notification is transmitted to server . In other embodiments step can occur periodically with all changes to data being synchronized at once. In further embodiments step can occur when a search is to be initiated as in step described below.

At step index is maintained index for distinguishing data from data . For example as data is transmitted to communication device index is maintained updated with identifiers ID as they are determined described above. Step can include storing memory locations ML received from communication device as described above.

At step copy is maintained copy searchable using search parameter data received from communication device to produce search results transmittable back to communication device as described below. For example as data is transmitted to communication device and index is maintained updated with identifiers data in any suitable format described above. In some embodiments copy can be maintained at yet another remote computing device not depicted different from computing device and server the remote computing device in communication with server . In these embodiments synchronization step can occur via server with synchronization notifications transmitted to the remote computing device via server .

Steps and can be performed in any suitable order and or simultaneously. In some embodiments step and or step can comprise step with index and or copy being maintained due to a synchronization.

At step and as depicted in search parameter data is received at server from communication device . For example search parameter data can be first received at communication device via input device and in some embodiments via a GUI provided via representation . Search parameter data is then processed by processor processor enabled to transmit search parameter data to server rather than search data stored in memory using search parameter data . In some embodiments processor can be further enabled to search data stored in memory using search parameter data before or after transmitting search parameter data to server . In other embodiments transmission of search parameter data to server occurs upon receiving further input data indicative that a remote search is to be performed.

At step server searches searchable copy using search parameter data to produce search results . Any suitable algorithm of any suitable complexity can be applied in searching searchable copy using search parameter data . In general processor can be more powerful e.g. faster etc. than processor and hence more robust search algorithms may be used to search copy than could be practically used at communication device . Furthermore index can be processed in order to distinguish between data and data for example in embodiments where memory stores a copy of at least a subset of data that is not in data . In some embodiments if a synchronization notification described above with reference to step is delayed and or lost and hence index is out of date then server can use out of date index and communication device can filter search results based on data stored in memory . Furthermore if searchable copy is maintained on a remote computing device server can forward search parameter data to the remote computing device to produce search results which are then transmitted back to server server then processes index in order to distinguish between data and data to further filter search results before transmitting them to communication device as described below.

At step search results are transmitted to communication device where they can be provided in representation via a suitable GUI. Search results can include respective identifiers ID and memory locations ML of data provided in search results .

In any event by performing remote searches at server and further by maintaining index and copy to limit remote searches only to data rather than data more complex algorithms may be applied in a search and search results will be limited to a subset of data such that search results are available for processing at communication device rather than having to be requested from a remote computing device such as computing device .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the functionality of computing device and server can be implemented using pre programmed hardware or firmware elements e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs etc. or other related components. In other embodiments the functionality of computing device and server can be achieved using a computing apparatus that has access to a code memory not shown which stores computer readable program code for operation of the computing apparatus. The computer readable program code could be stored on a computer readable storage medium which is fixed tangible and readable directly by these components e.g. removable diskette CD ROM ROM fixed disk USB drive . Alternatively the computer readable program code could be stored remotely but transmittable to these components via a modem or other interface device connected to a network including without limitation the Internet over a transmission medium. The transmission medium can be either a non wireless medium e.g. optical and or digital and or analog communications lines or a wireless medium e.g. microwave infrared free space optical or other transmission schemes or a combination thereof.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that there are yet more alternative implementations and modifications possible for implementing the embodiments and that the above implementations and examples are only illustrations of one or more embodiments. The scope therefore is only to be limited by the claims appended hereto.

