---

title: Technique for performing dielectric property measurements at microwave frequencies
abstract: A method, system, apparatus, and computer readable medium has been provided with the ability to obtain a complex permittivity ∈ or a complex permeability μ of a sample in a cavity. One or more complex-valued resonance frequencies (f) of the cavity, wherein each fis a measurement, are obtained. Maxwell's equations are solved exactly for ∈, and/or μ, using the fas known quantities, thereby obtaining the ∈ and/or μ of the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08653819&OS=08653819&RS=08653819
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 08653819
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e of the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. provisional patent application which is incorporated by reference herein 

Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 240 564 filed on Sep. 8 2009 by Martin B. Barmatz and Henry W. Jackson entitled NEW TECHNIQUE FOR PERFORMING DIELECTRIC PROPERTY MEASUREMENTS AT MICROWAVE FREQUENCIES. 

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. Section 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

This invention relates to a method for obtaining dielectric and magnetic constants for a sample and an apparatus for performing the same.

 Note This application references a number of different publications as indicated throughout the specification by one or more author names and or years within parentheses e.g. Name year . A list of these different publications ordered according to these reference numbers can be found below in the section entitled References. Each of these publications is incorporated by reference herein. 

Most microwave dielectric property measurements rely on a cavity perturbation approach that requires very small solid samples Meng et al. 1995 . Cavity perturbation methods are only approximate and have several assumptions that have to be satisfied to obtain accurate results. In the conventional cavity perturbation approach it is assumed that the sample is sufficiently small so that the perturbation in the electric and magnetic fields with the sample inserted in the cavity is negligible. It is also assumed that the difference between the quality factors of the cavity due to the cavity wall loss with and without the sample is negligible. These assumptions limit the sample volume to be only a few percent of the cavity volume in order to obtain accurate results.

The present invention has performed the additional calculations that enables one to arrive at an even more accurate determination of the complex dielectric constant more accurate than a cavity perturbation approach for example . This improved approach is particularly important when working with liquid samples larger solid or liquid samples or samples with larger dielectric constants that further perturb the cavity electromagnetic fields.

The present invention may solve Maxwell s equations for dielectric and magnetic properties by knowing the cavity quality factor before and after the sample is inserted and then matching the solutions of Maxwell s equations with experiment. The Maxwell s equations applied to this invention may be solved using a unique root finder approach.

Thus to overcome the limitations in the prior art and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses a method of obtaining at least one property selected from a complex valued dielectric permittivity and a complex valued magnetic permeability of at least one sample comprising obtaining one or more complex valued resonance frequencies f of the cavity wherein each fis a measurement the real part Re of fbeing the measured cavity resonant frequency and the imaginary part Im of fbeing related to the measured cavity quality factor Q by Im f Re f 2 Q and solving Maxwell s equations Sphicopoulos et al. 1984 after including wall losses to then solve exactly for or using the fas known quantities thereby obtaining the or of the sample.

The method may comprise obtaining one measured complex valued resonance frequency f fof the cavity when empty obtaining one measured complex valued resonance frequency f fof the cavity containing the sample wherein fand fare measurements obtained by exciting the cavity with one or more cavity resonant modes and solving Maxwell s equations exactly for the or using the fand the f.

The exciting of cavity modes may comprise exciting cavity resonant frequencies to produce electric and magnetic fields in the cavity.

The method may further comprise obtaining one measured complex valued resonance frequency fof the cavity comprising the sample holder without the sample.

The solving step may further comprise solving the Maxwell s equations for a complex valued resonance frequency f of the cavity including the sample wherein the f may be a function of the and or .

The solving step may further comprise solving the Maxwell s equations for a complex valued resonance frequency g of the cavity including the sample holder without the sample wherein the g is a function of the .

The cavity may comprise one or more additional materials having known material dielectric permittivities and known material magnetic permeabilities such that the sample s or are the only unknowns during the solving step.

More generally the method may further comprise solving Maxwell s equations for complex valued resonance frequency f where a complex valued dielectric permittivity and complex valued magnetic permeability are assigned for each zone i in a set i 1 2 . . . N of annular regions and a central cylinder the set of zones i comprising the interior of the cylindrical cavity Sphicopoulos et. al. 1984 .

The method may further comprise obtaining an experimentally determined electrical conductivity of the cavity s walls using the f. The electrical conductivity of the cavity walls may be obtained using the fand known formulas for the complex valued f of the empty cavity Wilson et. al. 1949 .

The present invention may use the to modify the f and or g to account for a power absorbed by the cavity s walls thereby obtaining a resultant complex valued resonant frequency F from f that is a function of the and or and or obtaining a resultant complex valued resonant frequency G from g that is a function of the .

More generally in order to achieve the modification s for f the method may further comprise using the surface resistance formula evaluated using the calculated magnetic field corresponding to the frequency f and the electrical conductivity of the cavity walls to obtain the power absorbed Pand corresponding quality factor Qfor the cavity walls and then obtaining the contribution f Re f 2 Qto the imaginary part of the complex valued resonance frequency so that the resultant complex valued resonance frequency being F f j f.

The present invention may further comprise obtaining the or by solving F f. Alternatively the method may further comprise obtaining the by solving G fand then solving of F fusing the obtained by the solving of G f.

The method may further comprise obtaining a range of values for the or and selecting the value in the range that satisfies F fto any degree of precision desired.

A sample holder may be needed when performing dielectric and or magnetic measurements on liquids or granular materials. Generally the sample holder is made of a nonmagnetic dielectric material such as Teflon or quartz. In many cases the dielectric properties of these materials can be obtained from the manufacturers. However when that information is not available the dielectric properties of the sample holder can be obtained using the present invention. More generally the method may further comprise obtaining the complex valued dielectric permittivity of an empty nonmagnetic sample holder in a zone i I or in two non adjacent zones I and K occupied by the holder where the dielectric permittivity for each of the other zones in the set i is known by solving F f where fis the complex valued resonance frequency for the cavity containing an empty sample holder.

The method may further include obtaining the complex valued dielectric permittivity of a nonmagnetic sample in a zone i J contained in a sample holder where the complex valued permittivity for each of the other zones in the set i is known by solving F f where fis the complex valued resonance frequency for the cavity containing a sample in a sample holder.

The sample may be large and or lossy enough to perturb cavity modes of the cavity. For example the sample may fill between 1 and 95 of the volume of the cavity. However in the present invention the sample may be of any size relative to the cavity volume.

Transverse Magnetic TM modes wherein n is a positive integer may be used to excite the cylindrical cavity. The integer n may be but is not limited to between one and three.

To obtain the of the sample that is magnetic the cavity resonant modes may comprise at least one TMmode and a magnetic field and an electric field associated with the TMmode. The method may then further comprise performing the steps of the present invention for the sample that is a first cylindrical sample positioned along the cavity s axis the first cylindrical sample having a first radius that is sufficiently small so that the magnetic field s strength at the surface at the first radius end is negligible thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the dielectric permittivity of the sample .

Next the steps of the present invention may be performed for the same sample that is a second cylinder comprising a same material as the first cylinder and having a larger radius than the first radius such that the second cylinder positioned along the axis experiences both the magnetic field and the electric field thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the using the obtained with the first cylinder.

If it is desired to use only one sample for measuring both the permittivity and permeability the present invention may place an annular sample or a liquid or powder in an annular holder located at a radius value associated with the maximum electric field for the TMmode where the magnetic field is zero . Measurements for this TMmode may determine the sample permittivity . Then using the TMmode where the same sample may be in both the magnetic and electric fields the present invention may back out the sample permeability knowing its permittivity. With this approach the present invention may assume that the permittivity does not change significantly between the frequencies of the TMand TMmodes.

The method may further comprise using the or to interpret remote sensing data obtained from extra terrestrial or terrestrial material thereby identifying one or more compositions optical properties or dimensions of the material and transmitting storing or displaying the compositions optical properties or dimensions of the material.

The solving of F ffurther may further comprise finding roots of F f 0 by i specifying a range of values for z within a first rectangle in a complex plane wherein the z are complex numbers in a complex plane ii introducing a mesh into the first rectangle thereby forming the mesh comprising mesh points at corners of second rectangles wherein the second rectangles are smaller than the first rectangles iii evaluating Re F z at each of the mesh points iv determining one or more first sides of the second rectangles where the Re F z changes sign v evaluating Im F z at each of the mesh points vi determining one or more second sides of the second rectangles where the Im F changes sign vii selecting the second rectangles having both the first sides and second sides where both the Re F z and the Im F z change sign to obtain selected second rectangles viii interpolating the Re F z in the selected second rectangles to define a Re F z null line ix interpolating the Im F z in the selected second rectangles to define an Im F z null line x finding a first intersection point between the Re F z null line and the Im F z null line xi setting the second rectangle as the first rectangle and repeating steps i x using the second rectangle as the first rectangle thereby finding a second intersection point xii obtaining a difference between the first intersection point and the second intersection point and comparing the difference with a precision parameter that is equal to a desired precision xiii repeating the method until the difference is at least as small as the precision parameter thereby obtaining a final intersection point xiv and setting the final intersection point equal to the property.

In the following description of the preferred embodiment reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration a specific embodiment in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present invention discusses the need to perform accurate dielectric and magnetic property measurements on larger sized samples particularly liquids at microwave frequencies. These types of measurements cannot be obtained with accuracy using conventional cavity perturbation methods particularly for liquids powdered or granulated solids that require a surrounding container. To solve this problem a model has been developed for the resonant frequency and quality factor of a cylindrical microwave cavity containing concentric cylindrical samples. This model can then be inverted to obtain the real and imaginary dielectric and magnetic constants of the material of interest.

The present invention may also determine the of a magnetic material however in this case there may be typically 4 unknowns real and imaginary parts of both and and the sample may be measured to isolate and determine each unknown separately.

The approach is based on using exact solutions to Maxwell s equations for the resonant properties of a cylindrical microwave cavity and also using the effective electrical conductivity of the cavity walls that is estimated from the measured empty cavity quality factor. This new approach calculates the complex resonant frequency and associated electromagnetic fields for a cylindrical microwave cavity with lossy walls that is loaded with concentric axially aligned lossy dielectric and or magnetic cylindrical samples. In this approach the calculated complex resonant frequency consisting of real and imaginary parts is related to the experimentally measured quantities.

Because this approach uses Maxwell s equations to determine the perturbed electromagnetic fields in the cavity with the material s inserted one can calculate the expected wall losses using the fields for the loaded cavity rather than just depending on the value of the fields obtained from the empty cavity quality factor. These additional calculations provide a more accurate determination of the complex dielectric constant of the material being studied. The improved approach may be important when working with larger samples or samples with larger dielectric constants that will further perturb the cavity electromagnetic fields. Also this approach enables a larger sample of interest such as a liquid or powdered or granulated solid inside a cylindrical container.

The new technique of the present invention takes advantage of a theoretical model previously developed at JPL Jackson et al. 1994 . This more exact approach is based on exact solutions to Maxwell s equations for the resonant properties of a cylindrical microwave cavity Sphicopoulos et al. 1984 . The new feature of this measurement approach is the ability to use a cylindrical sample of interest such as a liquid like methane or ethane at Titan surface temperature of 92 K inside a cylindrical container. This new method goes beyond cavity perturbation approaches Meng et al. 1995 by allowing the diameter of a concentric cylindrical sample and holder to be of arbitrary sizes.

In the mid 1990 s JPL had an active microwave laboratory where many experimental and theoretical studies were undertaken to understand how microwaves interact with materials. This approach was extended for use in earlier JPL studies on microwave processing of materials Jackson et al. 1994 . One theoretical study developed a sophisticated computer program to predict the temperature dependence inside a cylindrical sample as a function of time when a cavity resonance was excited at a given microwave power level Jackson et al. 1994 .

The present invention may be used to obtain the dielectric permittivity and magnetic permeability of samples by measuring the samples in a cavity with or without a sample holder.

In one embodiment the present invention is concerned with measurements made on a cylindrical sample inserted along the axis of a cylindrical microwave cavity using the TMmodes whose resonant frequencies are independent of the length of the cavity and only depend on the radius of the cavity as given in Eq. 1 for an ideal empty cavity. 2 1 where c is the speed of light in vacuum a is the cavity radius and the constant depends on the value n 2.405 for example and is the nzero of the JBessel function.

The resonant frequency value of a real experimental cavity may be affected by any changes in the boundary conditions for example due to holes in the walls or insertion of a small exciter or detector antenna. Of course the resonant frequency may also change with temperature since the cavity dimensions may expand or contract depending on the thermal properties of the cavity material.

However the present invention may be used for more general configurations comprising multiple materials and regions. For example in order to perform this analysis a cylindrical cavity may divided into concentric cylindrical regions and as shown in Sphicopoulos et. al. 1984 .

There may be an arbitrary number N or L of concentric regions. Each region may have a different complex dielectric constant respectively and each complex dielectric constant may have a known temperature dependence. Given that information the program Jackson et al. 1994 may calculate the instantaneous cavity complex resonant frequency at any given temperature as microwaves heat the sample.

The program Jackson et al. 1994 is valid for essentially any resonant cavity mode and any diameter sample or concentric materials situated along the axis of the cavity . The outer walls may be metallic walls. The outer walls are typically but not necessarily considered boundary conditions rather than regions . Also shown in is the radius of the cylindrical region the radius of the cylindrical region the radius of the cylindrical region and the radius of the Lor Ncylindrical region. Also shown is the height or length h of the cavity .

This new approach of the present invention may calculate the complex resonant frequency and associated electromagnetic fields for a cylindrical microwave cavity that is loaded with concentric axially aligned lossy dielectric or magnetic cylindrical samples. The actual losses in the walls are estimated from the measured empty cavity quality factor Q. In this approach the real f and imaginary f resonance frequencies f f jf are related to the experimentally measured quantities by the following expressions f f 2 2 3 where fis the measured resonant frequency and Qis the quality factor associated with the sample only given by 1 1 4 where Qis the loaded cavity quality factor Q.

This calculation assumes known values for the complex dielectric constants of the material s in the cavity. However the present invention is interested in calculating the dielectric constants from the measured cavity frequencies and quality factors with and without the material s inserted. Thus the present invention developed an inverse program that runs through a range of real and imaginary dielectric or magnetic constants until the present invention obtained the experimental values for fand Q. Since this approach can actually determine the perturbed electromagnetic fields in the cavity with the material s inserted the present invention can recalculate the expected wall losses using the new fields rather than just depending on the value obtained from the empty cavity quality factor.

Each power sweep through the cavity resonance may be fit to a Lorentzian line shape with an additional linear background frequency term. From this fit the present invention obtained the resonant frequency f and quality factor Q for the measured experimental arrangement.

The present invention has modified the program Jackson et al. 1994 to allow the present invention to probe any range of real and imaginary dielectric or magnetic constants for a sample and surrounding holder until the present invention obtains the complex dielectric or magnetic constants that give the measured cavity complex resonant frequency f and quality factor Q.

Block represents obtaining e.g. measuring one or more complex valued resonance frequencies f and quality factors Q of the cavity wherein each fis a measurement. The Re f may be the measured cavity resonant frequency and the Im f may be related to the measured cavity quality factor Qby Im f Re f 2Q.

The step may comprise obtaining e.g. measuring at least one of the fthat is a measurement of a complex valued resonance frequency f of the cavity when empty obtaining e.g. measuring at least one of the fthat is a measurement of a complex valued resonance frequency f of the cavity containing a sample holder wherein the sample holder is without a sample or contains a vacuum and obtaining e.g. measuring at least one of the fthat is a measurement of a complex valued resonance frequency f of the cavity containing the sample in the sample holder or containing the sample without the sample holder.

Block represents obtaining an effective electrical conductivity of the cavity s walls using the f. The may be obtained using fand known formulas for the calculated complex valued f of the empty cavity derived from Wilson et. al 1949 2 5 where Qis empty cavity quality factor obtained from f is the permeability of vacuum fis the empty cavity resonant frequency also obtained from f Dis the cavity diameter and L is the cavity length. Thus the is an experimentally determined electrical conductivity for the actual cavity walls used because it is based on a measured f and can therefore take into account the real non ideal properties of the cavity walls including holes and other imperfections in the cavity walls.

Block represents solving Maxwell s equations exactly using the method of Sphicopoulos et. al. 1984 for a complex valued resonance frequency f of the cavity including the sample wherein the f f is a function of the and or of the sample. Alternatively the Maxwell s equations may be solved for the sample in the cavity and in a sample holder so that f f is a function of both the and or of the sample and the complex valued dielectric permittivity of the sample holder. The step may further comprise solving the Maxwell s equations for a complex valued resonance frequency g of the cavity including the sample holder without the sample wherein the g g is a function of the .

More generally the step may comprise solving the Maxwell s equations Sphicopoulos et al. 1984 for a complex valued resonance frequency f where a complex valued dielectric permittivity and is assigned for each zone i in a set i 1 2 . . . N of annular regions and a central cylinder the set of zones i comprising the interior of the cylindrical cavity. The f is a single frequency for the whole cavity that is a function of every and or in the cylinder. If there are no magnetic materials in the cavity then f .

Regions in the cavity that are air or vacuum may use the known complex valued permittivity for air or vacuum. For example the complex permittivity for a vacuum has a real part equal to one and an imaginary part equal to zero.

Block represents using the to modify the f to account for the power absorbed by the cavity s walls thereby obtaining a resultant complex valued resonant frequency F that is a function of the and or . The step may further comprise modifying the g to account for the thereby obtaining a resultant complex valued resonant frequency G that is a function of the .

More generally the step may further comprise modifying the f to account for the power absorbed by the cavity s walls thereby obtaining a resultant complex valued resonant frequency F. In the general case the modifying may comprise the following steps.

 1 Calculating a surface resistance Rformula e.g. p. 32 equation 1.125 of Pozar 3Edition 6 where f f is the theoretical resonant frequency.

 2 Using Rto obtain the power absorbed by the cavity s walls P see e.g. Pozar 3Edition page 33 equation 1.131 2 7 where t represents the tangential component of the magnetic field at the surface of the cavity walls Pindicates the total power absorbed by the total surface area of the cavity walls indicates an integral over the surface of the cavity walls ds is the surface element and His the magnetic field tangential component at the surface of the cavity walls. Thus the energy loss in the cavity walls Pdepends on the Rand the magnetic field strength evaluated at the cavity wall for the calculated magnetic field corresponding to the frequency f . The cavity wall quality factor Qcan then be determined from Pusing Q 2 Re f U Pwhere U is the total electromagnetic energy stored in the cavity see e.g. Pozar 3Edition page 268 equation 6.7 .

 4 Obtaining the contribution f Re f 2 Qto the imaginary part of the resultant complex valued resonance frequency so that the resultant complex valued resonance frequency F f jf. If there are no magnetic materials in the cavity then F .

Thus F and f may be a function of sample with no sample holder or and sample with sample holder . F and f may be a function of the sample s if the sample is magnetic.

Block represents obtaining the or and by solving F f G f respectively or more generally by solving F fand F f. The model may choose different values for the only unknown to obtain a theoretical F to compare to the experimental value f to see which value of gives a match to any desired degree of precision. For example the step may comprise obtaining a range of values for the and selecting the value in the range that satisfies F fto any desired degree of precision. The solving may be performed numerically or analytically for example.

The cavity may comprise one or more additional materials e.g. sample holder vacuum air etc. having known material dielectric permittivity and known material magnetic permeability such that the is an only unknown during the solving step. In this regard the method may first obtain the dielectric properties of the unknown materials in the cavity. For example the present invention may obtain the by solving G f and then solve of F ffor the sample inserted in the sample holder using the obtained by the solving of G f.

Thus more generally the step may comprise obtaining the complex valued dielectric permittivity of an empty sample holder in a zone i I or in two non adjacent zones I and K occupied by the holder where the dielectric permittivity and if necessary for each of the other zones in the set i is known by solving F f where fis the complex valued resonance frequency for the cavity containing an empty sample holder.

The step may then further comprise obtaining the complex valued dielectric permittivity or of a sample in a zone i J contained in a sample holder where the complex valued permittivity and if necessary for each of the other zones in the set i is known by solving F f where fis the complex valued resonance frequency for the cavity containing a sample in a sample holder. The solved in the previous paragraph may be used as one of the known .

Thus Blocks above represent solving Maxwell s equations exactly for and or and or using the fas known quantities thereby obtaining the and or of the sample and or of the sample holder. The method of the present invention may comprise exciting the cavity measuring quality factors and resonant frequencies to obtain the experimental complex resonant frequency f of the cavity solving Maxwell s equations for the theoretical complex resonant frequency F and obtaining and or by equating the theoretical complex resonant frequency F to the measured complex resonant frequency f.

The present invention allows for exploring any range of the unknown complex or to determine the value that satisfies F f to any degree of precision desired.

Block represents using the or to interpret remote sensing data obtained from earth or extra terrestrial material thereby identifying one or more compositions optical properties or dimensions of the material and transmitting storing or displaying the compositions optical properties or dimensions of the material Janssen et al. 2008 . This invention could also support data interpretation from future flight missions including SMAP Soil Moisture Active Passive 1.2 1.4 GHz and DESDynI Deformation Ecosystem Structure and Dynamics of Ice 1.2 GHz .

However the present invention is not limited to providing or for any one particular application. The method of the present invention can be used to provides or for any application.

In general the present invention solves for one unknown at a time. For the case of non magnetic materials in the cavity the functions f and F are not a function of In the case of magnetic materials in the cavity the permeability of the materials in the cavity will have to be known. The sample s permeability can be determined using the method of the present invention once the sample s permittivity is known as further discussed below.

A similar method may be used to measure magnetic permeability as illustrated in . The present description given above may make accurate permittivity measurements on essentially any size non magnetic materials.

However even if the sample is magnetic the permittivity may be determined by placing a small cylindrical sample and holder along the axis of a cylindrical cavity where the magnetic field is close to zero.

For example Block of represents determining the of a magnetic sample. The step may comprise using a cavity resonant mode that is at least one Transverse Magnetic TM mode. The step may further comprise performing the steps of Blocks in for the sample that is a first cylindrical sample positioned along the cavity s axis the first cylindrical sample having a first radius that is sufficiently small so that the magnetic field s strength produced by the cavity resonant mode at the first radius end is negligible see also thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the .

The present invention may also measure the permeability of samples. The permeability can be determined by first using a thin sample to obtain the complex dielectric constant as mentioned above e.g. using the first cylindrical sample . Then a larger diameter sample second cylindrical sample is used so it sees both a magnetic and electric field produced by the cavity resonant mode. Knowing the dielectric constant the present invention can then back out the permeability.

Block represents determining the of a magnetic sample. The step may comprise performing the steps of Blocks in using the sample that is the second cylinder comprising a same material as the first cylinder and having a larger radius than the first radius such that the second cylinder positioned along the axis experiences both the magnetic field and the electric field thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the using the obtained using Block .

With this approach there may be a slight shift in the resonant frequency between the small and large samples. With a proper design of the cavity these permittivity and permeability measurements may be made for at least the three lowest resonant frequencies TM TM and TM .

The present invention further discloses a second method for measuring the permeability of a sample where only one sample is required. In this case the cavity resonant modes may comprise a first frequency a first magnetic field and a first electric field associated with a first TMmode where n is an integer. The cavity resonant modes may further comprise a second frequency a second magnetic field and a second electric field associated with a second TMmode wherein the first frequency and the second frequency such that the and the at the first frequency are negligibly different from the and the at the second frequency.

In this case Block represents 1 exciting the cavity with the first TMmode where the sample is an annulus positioned placed or located at a radius value of the cavity associated with a maximum of the first electric field and a zero of the first magnetic field where the magnetic field is zero and 2 performing the steps of Blocks in using the first TMmode thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the .

Block then represents performing the steps of Blocks in using the second TMmode so that the sample experiences both the second electric field and the second magnetic field thereby allowing the Maxwell s equations and the F to be solved for only one unknown the using the obtained using the first TMmode.

In one example the first TM mode is a TMmode measurements for this TMmode may determine the permittivity and the second TM mode is a TMmode that allows the same sample to be in both magnetic and electric fields thereby allowing the present invention to back out the permeability knowing the permittivity obtained using the TMmode. The annular sample may a solid or a liquid or powder in an annular holder for example.

The present invention has developed Mathematical programs for calculating the permittivity and permeability using this technique. These programs are able to determine the changes in the electromagnetic field at the cavity wall from its empty cavity and loaded cavity states. This ability goes beyond the previous perturbation approaches.

A highly efficient rootfinder that may be used to solve an equation such as F f 0 for a complex valued dielectric permittivity or complex valued dielectric permeability has been developed and is described below. This rootfinder may be applied to a large variety of problems.

One or more solutions of the equation C z 0 where C Re C j Im C and z Re z j Im z can be obtained as intersection points of two lines that lie in the complex z plane. The coordinate axes in that plane are labeled Re z and Im z. The two null or zero lines that intersect can be determined by the conditions Re C z 0 Im C z 0. The procedure for locating the one or more solutions of C z 0 may be made highly efficient by first obtaining approximate solutions with a minimum of calculation. Only then are complicated quantities evaluated that accurately locate the solution or solutions.

The first step in the procedure represented in Block is to specify a range of values of z within a rectangle in the complex z plane that is to be searched for solutions of C z 0. The rectangle is specified to be the region having coordinates along the Re z axis between ZRMIN and ZRMAX and coordinates along the Im z axis between ZIMIN and ZIMAX.

Next a mesh is introduced in this rectangle as illustrated in Block the mesh having NR equal intervals between ZRMIN and ZRMAX and NI equal intervals between ZIMIN and ZIMAX. Each small rectangle in the mesh will be associated with the indices L M that locate its lower left hand corner.

Block represents scanning and evaluating Re C z on the mesh. Start at L 1 M 1 scan from left to right and then move upward to the next row and scan from left to right. Repeat this procedure until the entire large rectangle has been scanned. Evaluate the function Re C z at each corner of each rectangle in the mesh i.e. at each mesh point . Then return to L 1 M 1 and scan again in the same manner but also determine sides of the small rectangles in the mesh such that Re C z changes sign there as represented in Block . For each rectangle L M assign the value 0 or 2 to a function JR L M according to whether there are zero or two sides of the rectangle where Re C z changes sign.

A similar procedure is carried out for Im C z 0 as illustrated in Blocks and but now assign the value 0 or 2 to a function JI L M according to whether there are zero or two sides of the small rectangle where Im C z changes sign.

The next step represented in Block is to scan the large rectangle and select for further processing each small rectangle thick dashed rectangle in where JR L M 2 and JI L M 2. Any point z within or on the boundary of such a rectangle L M is an approximate solution of C z 0. However a more accurate solution can be obtained by the following steps.

In each rectangle L M that satisfies the conditions specified points on the sides of the rectangle such that Re C z 0 can be obtained to good approximation by linear interpolation of values of Re C z on the corners of the rectangle as represented in Block . The two null points on sides of the rectangle L M define a straight null line segment for the function Re C z . This line segment lies in the rectangle L M .

For that same L M rectangle points on the sides of the rectangle such that to good approximation Im C z 0 can be obtained by linear interpolation of Im G z on the corners of the rectangle Block . Those two null points define a straight null line segment for the function Im C z . That line segment lies in the rectangle L M .

The intersection point zof the two straight null lines inside the rectangle L M can be found by simple algebra as represented in Block . The value of zis a better approximate solution of C z 0.

The entire procedure of Blocks is then repeated as represented in Block by further partitioning the above rectangle L M with a smaller mesh size and determining a new intersection point which will now be called z.

The difference Re z Re z and the difference Im z Im z are now individually compared with a specified precision parameter as represented in Block . If each of these differences meets the specified precision criterion then zwill be taken as the solution of C z 0. If the precision criterion is not met then this procedure is repeated with successively smaller rectangles covered by successively finer meshes until the specified precision criterion is met by two successive calculations.

Block represents the final value for the intersection point now called z is a solution of C z 0 that meets the precision that has been specified. Application of this procedure an infinite number of times will converge to an exact solution of C z 0.

Thus as applied to the solving of F f the method of the present invention may further comprise finding roots of F f 0 by 

 i specifying a range of values for z within a first rectangle in a complex plane wherein the z are complex numbers in a complex plane Block 

 ii introducing a mesh of second rectangles into the first rectangle thereby forming the mesh comprising mesh points at corners of second rectangles wherein the second rectangles are smaller than the first rectangles Block 

 iv determining one or more first sides of the second rectangles where the Re F z changes sign Block 

 vii selecting the second rectangles having both the first sides and second sides where both the Re F z and the Im F z change sign to obtain selected second rectangles Block 

 viii interpolating the Re F z in the selected second rectangles to define a Re F z null line Re C z Re F z 0 Block 

 ix interpolating the Im F z in the selected second rectangles to define an Im F z null line Im C z Im F z 0 Block 

 xi setting the second rectangle as the first rectangle and repeating steps i x using the second rectangle as the first rectangle thereby finding a new or second intersection point Block 

 xii obtaining a difference between the first intersection point and the second intersection point and comparing the difference with a precision parameter that is equal to a desired precision Block 

 xiii repeating the method until the difference is at least as small as the precision parameter thereby obtaining a final intersection point 

In one embodiment the present invention used an existing microwave cavity 3 long cylindrical cavity designed to excite the TMresonant mode with a resonant frequency of 2.45 GHz using equation 1 the TMmode has f 2.452 GHz . The test samples were Polyvinyl Chloride PVC rods some of which were enclosed in a Polycarbonate PC tube. The present invention performed dielectric property measurements on various sized PVC rods Type 1 PVC solid rods of diameter and diameter simulating e.g. the sample either alone or enclosed in the PC tube used e.g. as the sample holder . A outer diameter OD 1 16 wall PC tube was used as the holder for the smaller diameter PVC rod that could also simulate a liquid contained in the holder .

These measurements should give the same values for the PVC real and imaginary dielectric constants for both PVC rods.

The present invention was careful regarding the way energy is transmitted into and out of the cavity. The cavity was excited using a small loop antenna positioned to couple to the TMmode magnetic field. The energy in the cavity was detected using a similar small loop antenna situated on the sidewall. The approach taken by the present invention was to weakly couple the microwave energy into the cavity. This was accomplished by designing a special support for a rotatable rod attached to the loop antenna. The rod was rotated so that the excitation loop area barely coupled to the magnetic field lines associated with the TMmode. This approach requires a much larger drive signal since 99 of the signal may be reflected back. In this way a negligible amount of the energy that does enter the cavity may leak back out through the weakly coupled exciter or detector loops and cause an error in the quality factor Q measurement.

An Agilent Technologies E8364B Vector Network Analyzer VNA was used to sweep the frequency through the resonance. With the exceptional signal to noise characteristics of this unit only 8 mW of drive power was needed to obtain measurable signals.

First the empty cavity resonant frequency and quality factor were measured. These empty cavity measurements were needed because the cavity walls absorb microwave energy in addition to the sample and a correction for this additional energy loss needed to be taken into account.

Then the sample of interest was inserted and the loaded sample cavity frequency and quality factor were measured. For the case of the diameter PVC rod inserted into the PC tube the PC tube complex dielectric constant was first determined by inserting this tube into the cavity separately and making the frequency and quality factor measurements for the tube alone. Then knowing the dielectric properties of the tube the present invention repeated the measurements with the PVC rod inserted in the PC tube. The present invention also separately performed cavity measurements on the larger OD PVC rod.

Each power sweep through the cavity resonance may be fit to a Lorentzian line shape with an additional linear background frequency term. From the fit the present invention obtained the resonant frequency f 2.38071e 09 12 Hz and quality factor Q 1414.27 0.03 for one example of a measured experimental arrangement.

These sets of measurements were used to determine the dielectric properties of the two different sized PVC rods using various calculation methods cavity perturbation and the present invention . The validation of the new technique of the present invention depended on the measured values of the two PVC rods being consistent with each other.

The difference in the real and imaginary dielectric constants between the two PVC rods was 3.6 and 1.1 respectively using the approach of the present invention. These results confirmed the validity of the present invention s new technique. The resultant deviations were partially due to the slight non uniformity in the PVC rods the fact that there was a slight gap between the PVC rod inserted in the PC tube.

This technique was also validated for a solid ice sample enclosed in a container at lower temperatures.

Additional measurements were made on pure water ice samples at 20 C. and 38 C. For the real part of the dielectric constant at these temperatures the present invention obtained 2.91 and 2.99 respectively. The only other reliable measured values of the real part of the dielectric constant in the present invention s frequency and temperature ranges 0.15 to 2.5 GHz 1 to 60 C. have been obtained by Westphal Ulaby and are in the range 2.90 2.95. These values by Westphal are in excellent agreement with the present invention s measurements at 20.3 C. and 38.0 C.

However a comparison of the present invention s imaginary dielectric constant measurements of pure water ice was difficult because there is substantial scatter in the previously published studies Ulaby et. al 1986 . Westphal c.f. Warren et al. 1985 noticed that annealing ice samples for a few hours at 10 C. resulted in lower losses and used this technique for making the ice measurements. However even with this approach Westphal estimated the accuracy in measuring the imaginary dielectric constant to be 20 .

The present invention always cooled the cavity as quickly as possible to the target low temperatures. However because of Westphal s uncertainties the present invention was not able to make a meaningful comparison of the present invention s imaginary dielectric constant with literature values. Nevertheless the results of the present invention s initial study of PVC and ice samples gives confidence in using the present invention s new approach for performing further cryogenic measurements on liquid methane and ethane.

One of the motivations for developing this invention was to be able to perform accurate dielectric measurements on cryogenic liquids such as methane and ethane. These are materials assumed to be components in lakes on Titan a moon of Saturn. The Cassini spacecraft has been taking radar measurements of Titan s lake at a frequency of 13.78 GHz. In the past the free space resonant cavity capacitive and calorimetric methods Whiffen 1950 Lorenz 1999 Lorenz and Shandera 2001 Lorenz et al. 2003 Paillou et al. 2008 Paillou et al. 2008a have been used to measure the complex dielectric constant of some Titan relevant materials. Some of the early studies were performed at lower frequencies near room temperature and were not very accurate Whiffen 1950 Lorenz and Shandera 2001 Lorenz et al. 2003 . More recent studies by Paillou and co workers Paillou et al. 2008 Paillou et al. 2008a working in the microwave region have used the free space method Ghodgaonkar et al. 1989 to measure the complex dielectric constant of cryogenic liquids and the resonant cavity method to measure solids. The more accurate of these earlier resonant cavity studies have used a form of the cavity perturbation to extract the dielectric constants from their microwave measurements Vaid et al. 1979 Rodriguez et al. 2003 . The present invention has fabricated a cylindrical microwave cavity designed to excite the TMmodes in order to perform these cryogenic microwave measurements. By making the cavity length small the higher order unwanted modes are moved to higher frequencies allowing the first three TMmodes to be unperturbed.

The radius for an empty cavity tuned to have a TMresonant frequency at 13.78 GHz is a 1.91 cm. However when a quartz tube used as a sample holder is inserted in the cavity the resonant frequency may be lowered. For the resonant frequency to be at 13.78 GHz when a thin walled quartz tube filled with liquid methane is inserted the present invention estimates the cavity radius to be 1.65 cm.

A drawing of the custom microwave resonant microwave cavity fabricated for measuring condensed liquids is shown in . The cavity is sealed to eliminate water condensation. The cavity may be first evacuated and then filled with a small amount of transfer gas to provide good thermal contact between the quartz tube and cavity s copper walls. The quartz tube may be moved in and out of the cavity and may be sealed by a Teflon O ring. A gas handling system may be used to allow pure hydrocarbons or their mixtures such as methane and ethane to be prepared and condensed through a capillary fill line into the quartz tube at cryogenic temperatures. A pressure gauge may measure the pressure in the transfer line. Once liquid forms the measured pressure corresponds to the vapor pressure which is a function of the interface temperature. The experimenter knows when the quartz tube is filled since at that time the gas liquid interface may move up the warmer fill line where a higher vapor pressure may be measured. Also shown is the exciter wherein exciting radiation is inputted and the detector for detecting the resonance frequency and Q factor e.g. with a loop antenna 

A larger microwave cavity having the same design as shown in may be fabricated to operate at 2.38 GHz. This new cavity may be used to study solid icy compositions relevant to understanding the surface behavior of Saturn s airless icy satellites. A different quartz tube design may be needed when solid samples are to be initially inserted into the quartz tube and measured. These solid samples may be characterized before and after their dielectric properties are measured using a cryogenic polarizing microscope and low temperature scanning electron microscope with an X ray Energy Dispersive Spectrometer EDS .

A cryogenic facility may be constructed to provide precision temperature control of the disk shaped microwave cavity. The cavity may be supported inside a dewar using thin walled stainless steel SS tubes. The dewar may be filled with liquid nitrogen to a level below the cavity. A long copper rod or finger may extend to near the bottom of the dewar to act as a cooling link to the cavity. A stainless steel insert inserted between the copper rod and cavity may act as a thermal impedance. With this design the cooling power to the cavity should remain rather constant even as the liquid nitrogen level is reduced. The cavity may have a heater and thermometer and the cavity temperature may be controlled using a proportional integral differential PID controller. The temperature of the cavity may have a stability better than 0.01 C. The cavity can be easily detached as a module if there is a need to insert a solid sample into the quartz tube. The temperature controllers and vacuum pumps needed for this cryogenic system may also be provided as well as a VNA such as an HP 8510C VNA for measuring the resonant shape.

There are three steps in the procedure for performing measurements. First the resonant frequency and quality factor of the empty cavity may be measured over the temperature range of interest. This is needed to determine the temperature dependence of the cavity wall electrical conductivity from which the present invention can obtain the absorption behavior of the cavity walls. Then the empty quartz tube may be inserted into the cavity and the measurements repeated. With these two sets of initial measurements the present invention may calculate the complex dielectric constant of the quartz tube over the measured temperature range. Then the final set of measurements may be made with the sample and quartz tube inserted. With these data sets the present invention may calculate the complex dielectric constant of the sample over the entire temperature range of interest.

The absolute accuracy in the calculated dielectric constants primarily depends on the accuracy in 1 the measurement of the microwave cavity and quartz tube dimensions 2 the measurement of the shift in the cavity resonant frequency and quality factor when the sample is inserted and 3 the calculation method. The microwave cavity and quartz tube dimensions as well as the frequency shift can be measured quite accurately. The new calculation method depends on an exact solution of Maxwell s equations for this experimental configuration. However it assumes perfect boundary conditions. In reality there can be perturbations in the electromagnetic fields due to no ideal boundary conditions holes in cavity walls exciter and detector antennas and etc. that modify the currents in the cavity walls. These perturbations may be minimized by using a metal coating on the top of the inserted quartz tube that may approximate the expected metal boundary and may also significantly reduce the leakage of energy out the cavity opening. The present invention may also use specially designed antennas with very small metal loops that approximate the expected boundary.

With regards to determining the complex dielectric constant where is Re is Im and the may be determined from the measured quality factor shift there may be a limitation as to how small a can be determined. For the worst case scenario of a pure methane sample with a small loss tangent of say tan 10 the present invention estimates the shift in the cavity Q when the sample is inserted may only be 0.35 . For an expected initial Q of 11 300 this corresponds to a shift in Q of 40. This accuracy may depend on having a good signal to noise sweep measurement and on how well the measured resonant line shape matches the expected Lorentzian shape. The present invention may be able to measure this low loss tangent to 5 .

The fand Qmay be measured by exciting the cylindrical cavity with a TMmode of microwave radiation with n such that but not limited to 0

The cavity may have any size for example a radius of the cavity may be selected to excite the TM modes for the required frequency range.

The fand the Qmay be measured or obtained as a function of temperature thereby obtaining as a function of temperature.

The present invention allows accurate measurements of dielectric permittivity and magnetic permeability of various materials. The real part dielectric permittivity is a measure of the reflectivity of the material for example and the imaginary part of the dielectric permittivity is a measure of the absorption of the material for example.

The present invention uses one or more modes or resonances of a cavity for the empty cavity and for the cavity containing a sample and or sample holder. The sample and the sample holder perturb the empty cavity modes and shift the field behavior. The shift depends on the size of the sample. Prior to the present invention only permittivities for samples having small sizes of the order of a few percent of the cavity s volume could be measured accurately using a cavity perturbation approach.

Prior to the present invention attempts to measure the change in Q factor with and without the sample measured only small samples a few percent of cavity volume ignored certain errors and ignored the effect of the sample holder and used only solid samples.

The present invention on the other hand may use a larger sample and accounts for cases where the fields at the cavity walls are changed due to the presence of the sample as compared to the empty cavity. Therefore the present invention may determine the new field at the walls when the sample gets larger. The present invention may also compensate for imperfections losses in the cavity walls. The present invention may use a rod of solid or a liquid in a sample holder.

The present invention may solve Maxwell s equations exactly for a cylindrical cavity containing a sample that is a cylindrical tube or containing the sample that is a cylindrical tube within the sample holder that is also a cylindrical tube. However the present invention s cavity may be a cylinder of any size that can be broken up into an arbitrary number of regions or cylinders e.g. 20 and solve for the behavior in each region. The present invention may monitor the temperature profile inside the sample rod as a function of time for different materials thereby obtaining the properties of the sample and sample holder as a function of time and temperature. For example the present invention may account for the inside of the sample heating before the surface of the sample.

Using the present invention the permittivity of the sample obtained with and without the sample holder is the same to within a few percent. Therefore the present invention can more accurately account for the effect of the sample holder on the fields.

The validation of the present invention s new approach opens up opportunities for performing complex dielectric constant measurements on larger sized samples both solids and liquids and porous materials that cannot accurately be obtained by other means. An important application of this new approach is the determination of the dielectric properties of candidate liquid hydrocarbon compositions methane ethane that may be the components of the apparent lakes observed on Titan 90 K . These new measurements may support the interpretation of radar echoes obtained from the Cassini Synthetic Aperture Radar Imager SAR operating at 13.8 GHz.

These types of low temperature measurements may require new cavity designs and a better temperature controlled cryogenic chamber. Small disk shaped cylindrical cavities can be designed to excite the first three TMmodes without interference from other cavity modes i.e. f 2 GHz f 5 GHz and f 8 GHz. The frequency range from 1 15 GHz could be covered by using two different sized chambers.

The present invention may perform cryogenic microwave dielectric property measurements to support the interpretation of radar and radiometric observations of Titan and other icy satellites of Saturn. In particular the present invention may use these measurements to interpret Cassini radiometric and radar observations at 13.78 GHz 2.2 cm of Titan and other Saturnian icy satellites obtained by the Cassini RADAR instrument and available from the Cassini Planetary Data System PDS archive as well as ground based radar measurements collected on the main airless icy satellites of Saturn at 2.38 GHz 13 cm . New dielectric measurements are essential to constrain the surface and near surface composition of these bodies.

 1 Setting up a microwave cavity and cryogenic system for operation at temperatures down to near liquid nitrogen 80 K . This first microwave cavity may make measurements of complex dielectric properties at 13.78 GHz 2.2 cm and have the capability of measuring low loss tangents to a high degree of precision e.g. down to 10to within 5 using the new more accurate analysis model.

 2 Subsequently measuring properties of liquid hydrocarbons relevant to Titan specifically methane ethane and their mixtures initially without and afterwards with impurities dissolved nitrogen solid hydrocarbons etc. .

 3 Applying these results to the analysis of lakes on Titan. The present invention may estimate lake depth observation limits as a function of composition and RADAR looks and geometry. These dielectric measurements may be used in conjunction with RADAR stereo bathymetric measurements of apparent subsurface intra lake structures to a test whether these structures are consistent with being observed through volumes of cryogenic liquids b bracket compatible composition ranges using a wide range of dielectric properties measured in the lab and c refine and apply a technique to estimate the depth of subsurface intra lake structures if viable dielectric properties are in a narrow range.

 4 Performing additional dielectric measurements on solids mainly various ice mixtures to support the interpretation of the publicly available microwave radar and radiometry observations of the main Saturnian icy satellites namely Titan Mimas Phoebe Enceladus Tethys Dione Rhea Hyperion and Iapetus. For some of these studies different microwave cavities operating at various frequencies may be fabricated.

Major objectives of planetary research revolve around understanding the origin and evolution of solar system objects. In particular the surfaces of the outer icy satellites contain a record of their history. Constraining their composition is necessary to determine the physical or geological endogenic or exogenic processes that have affected their surface and to determine the state and early evolution of the solar system since the materials present at the surface of these satellites are those from which the solar system formed.

Radar and radiometry observations can make an important contribution to this effort. However the interpretation of the accumulating data requires knowledge of the properties of the materials that comprise these surfaces. Existing data is sparse on properties of candidate surface materials at the low temperatures on these satellites particularly dielectric properties at microwave frequencies. The first part of the proposed effort will fill gaps and close uncertainties in these properties of one of the most important of these namely liquid methane ethane mixtures thereby enabling more thorough interpretation of data obtained by the Cassini RADAR instrument on the lakes observed on Titan. Additional dielectric property measurements may be performed on ice mixed with various contaminants ammonia silicate organics etc. and organic compounds at temperatures relevant to the main icy satellites of Saturn 60 100 K and at other frequencies. Most of these measurements will be totally new and are critical to better understand the surface composition of Saturn s icy worlds.

Since 2004 Titan has been explored extensively at 2.2 cm 13.8 GHz wavelength by the RADAR instrument through the Cassini prime mission in scatterometery and altimetry modes as well in the high resolution synthetic aperture radar SAR mode Elachi et al. 2005 Lunine et al. 2008 Wye et al. 2007 . Radiometric data at the same wavelength were obtained concurrently in all radar modes Janssen et al. 2009 .

The observations have been interpreted to yield unique information about Titan s diverse and complex surface which includes vast dune fields and evidence for the shaping and evolution of the surface by fluvial erosion putative cryovolcanism impacts and tectonics Lorenz et al. 2006 Stofan et al. 2007 Lorenz et al. 2008 Le Mou lic et al. 2008 Wall et al. 2009 . In particular strong evidence has been found for liquid filled seas and lakes on Titan especially in the high northern latitudes Stofan et al. 2007 . The recent detection of liquid ethane in Ontario Lacus by the VIMS instrument Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer Barnes et al. 2009 confirmed a long held idea that these lakes and seas are presently filled with liquid Stofan et al. 2007 Hayes et al. 2008 Mitchell et al. in review most likely primarily a combination of methane due to a methane rich atmosphere VIMS may not detect surface methane and ethane.

An accurate measurement of the microwave loss tangent of liquid ethane and methane and their mixture is of prime interest since it will allow the present invention to obtain a reliable estimate of the depth of the lakes. For example the 2 10loss tangent obtained by Paillou et al. 2008 based on a Liquefied Natural Gas LNG mixture primarily containing methane but also ethane and various other volatiles and hydrocarbons including nitrogen implies rather shallow up to 7 m lakes where the bottom is even slightly visible. This is not inconsistent with observations of lake Ontario Lacus which exhibits SAR backscatter that falls off exponentially with distance from the margins. When one extrapolates local altimeter data with slopes of 10 the observations would appear to suggest a loss tangent of 7.6 10 Hayes et al. in prep. differing from Paillou et al. s 2008 measurement by a factor of less than two.

However this contrasts with more direct stereo bathymetric measurements of the depth of seas in the Arctic calculated from stereo mappings Digital Topographic Mapping or DTM of the polar regions led by collaborator R. Kirk Kirk et al. 2010 . A surprising result has been the apparent success of the automatic image matching algorithm in very dark portions of the seas though not in the darkest and completely featureless areas. The DTM indicates a few hundred meters of relief in areas believed to be liquid covered. Some of the DTM results in the darker parts of the seas may well result from spurious matching between speckle noise in the images but substantial portions with backscatter cross sections between 10 and 15 db e.g. around the northern sides of Mayda Insula clearly show channels and other features common to both images of the pair and manual measurements of these features confirm that their elevations vary by up to several hundred meters.

The apparent contradiction with Paillou et al. s 2008 measurement has not yet been explained. One possibility is that the moderately dark areas are not in fact liquid filled seas of varying depth but are relatively smooth perhaps swampy exposed surfaces of varying texture. This would however seem to be at odds with a the observation that all near circular lakes appear to get progressively darker towards the middle until they reach the noise floor and b an analysis of a channel that extends into one of the polar seas and gets consistently darker downstream a result that indicates strongly imaging through progressively greater depths of liquid.

The laboratory results of Paillou et al. represent only one value for absorptivity of liquid hydrocarbon that may not be representative of all seas and lakes and that Titan s seas are sufficiently transparent that the radar is indeed seeing the bottom through up to a few hundred meters of liquid.

The seas have also been observed radiometrically. The Cassini RADAR instrument includes a passive mode able to acquire data with or separately from the active measurements. Over the past 4 years the Cassini radiometer has observed the 2.2 cm thermal emission from Titan s surface at resolutions ranging from 5 to 500 km and at a variety of emission angles and polarizations. 98 of the surface has been mapped by the radiometer and nearly 30 with a high resolution enabling the construction of a global map of the brightness temperature corrected to normal incidence Janssen et al. 2009 .

The radar dark seas and lakes observed at closest approach are well resolved on the radiometry map. They appear as high emissivity radiometrically warm regions surrounded by terrain of lower emissivity consistent with a dielectric constant of about 1.7 and an equator to pole temperature gradient of about 2 K. The brightness temperature mosaic revealed differences between lakes that might indicate different composition. An accurate knowledge of the dielectric properties of liquid ethane methane mixtures will allow a better interpretation of the data collected over the winter when the evaporation can be neglected and thus the physical temperature of the lakes taken as constant and may ultimately lead to a classification of the lakes as a function of their ethane methane ratio.

Another aspect of importance is that when winter underway in the northern latitudes the volumes and mixing ratio of ethane and methane the more volatile liquid in the lakes might change over the course of the Cassini mission one may be observing the lakes for a total of 10 terrestrial years which is approximately one third of a Saturn Titan year and so seasonal changes may be observed. Establishing a semi empirical mixing law for the dielectric properties of a ethane methane solution will enable a better understanding of the impact of the seasonal changes in radar observations of the lakes a major objective of the Cassini Solstice Mission . In addition it will help to interpret changes in the brightness temperatures of the lakes by discriminating between the effect of a change in the composition and the effect of a decrease in the physical temperature.

In addition to the atmosphere liquids and various ices Titan s environment contains significant amounts of hydrocarbons organics tholins and possibly nitriles organic materials resulting from photolysis of methane in the upper atmosphere all of which may be dissolved to some extent in the lake liquids and affect their dielectric properties. The present invention may also explore their impact on loss tangent in particular in order to assess their likely impact.

The methods used for determining the relationship between observed radar backscatter incidence angle and lake floor depth for a two layer surface of a complex dielectric liquid over a solid have already been applied by Mitchell and are summarized here. In that work the 10loss tangent of Paillou et al. 2008 was used which may be revised in view of the results from task 2 discussed above.

Radar backscattered power is found in the uncorrected for incidence angle versions of the RADAR basic image data records BIDR products in the PDS archive.

The present invention may fix surface and subsurface roughness parameters for the two layer scattering model of the lake. The surface layer is characterized by its dielectric constant previously taken to be 1.75 0.002j after liquefied natural gas LNG measurements surface roughness height standard deviation correlation length L and albedo a 0.2 in order to take into account scattering by heterogeneities or suspensions in the liquid . The bottom layer is characterized by its dielectric constant 2.20 0.01j for tholins after Rodriguez et al. 2003 if non ice sediment is suspected and 3.10 0.000006j for water ice if bedrock is suspected and roughness L .

Using this method the present invention may estimate the maximum observable depth on a pixel by pixel basis for different materials in individual RADAR passes T16 T18 T19 T25 T28 T29 and T30 all of which have been in PDS archive for long enough to be eligible for OPR analysis . Where stereo bathymetry is available the present invention may intercompare with radar modeling results for the full viable range of compositions.

In doing so the present invention may determine a if these data are indeed consistent with illumination through a liquid body b whether variations between lakes are consistent with changes in liquid composition and c if possible constraints by which the present invention may estimate the depth of observed features in non stereo scenes.

During this exercise the present invention may also look for possible changes of properties and depths as a function of latitude and elevation drawing on 2008 Cassini Data Analysis Program CDAP to investigate lake elevations in the polar region.

Saturn s airless icy satellites range from planet like geologically active worlds to small irregular objects. Their spectra imply compositions of mostly water ice Clark et al. 1986 but their respective evolutionary history and near environment have lead to different regolith composition and structure. Investigating the radar and radiometric properties of the icy satellites surface can help estimating their degree of purity and maturity as well as their possible composition and therefore provide insight on the various physical and geological processes that have affected them. Yet such effort requires knowledge of the microwave dielectric properties of the ice mixed with different contaminants at the relevant temperatures.

During the 2004 through 2007 oppositions of the Saturn system Black et al. 2007 observed the mid size Saturnian satellites Rhea Dione Tethys and Enceladus with the Arecibo Observatory s 13 cm wavelength 2.38 GHz radar system and measured their bulk radar reflectance properties. Early on Black et al. 2004 had used the same radar system to observe Iapetus optically bright trailing hemisphere and the optically dark leading hemisphere of Iapetus.

Concurrently since Saturn orbit insertion in 2004 the Cassini RADAR has acquired a wealth of radar data on Saturn s main airless icy satellites namely Mimas Phoebe Enceladus Tethys Dione Rhea Hyperion and Iapetus Ostro et al. 2006 Ostro et al. 2009 . With the exception of one close flyby of Iapetus all these observations were distant ones and therefore designed largely for disk integrated albedo calculations at 2.2 cm. Radiometric data obtained concurrently provide the thermal radiometric brightness of the icy satellites at the same wavelength.

On Sep. 10 2007 the Cassini spacecraft encountered Iapetus at an altitude near 20 000 km and collected radar and radiometric measurements on the leading side of the moon imaging its dark terrains and part of the bright terrains of the North and South polar caps.

At temperatures as low as 100 K surfaces made of water ice if fresh and clean have negligible absorption length at radio wavelength Thompson and Squyres 1990 Maetzler 1998 Lorenz 1998 . The general understanding gained so far about the radar properties of the icy surfaces of the Saturn system including Titan is that they are precisely characterized by relatively much lower loss compared to other solar system surfaces Wye et al. 2007 Janssen et al. 2009 . The dominant reflection mechanism in the microwave domain is therefore expected to be subsurface volume scattering due to inhomogeneities within the low loss subsurface medium. This mechanism has been advanced to explain the radar reflective properties of the Galilean satellites from Earth based radar Ostro 1993 Black et al. 2001 .

However the icy satellites exhibit different radar signatures and longitudinal variations that may be indicative of differences in the electrical properties and thus in composition of the regolith. In particular Ostro et al. 2006 2009 invoke an increase in surface contaminants of Saturnian satellites with distance from Saturn to explain the observed proportional decrease in radio albedo from Enceladus to Phoebe. The purity of Enceladus regolith may be due to its ongoing geologic activity and the resultant resurfacing by fresh water ice.

The wavelength dependence of radar properties is a further argument for the likely presence of non ice material in the icy regolith of the Saturnian satellites Black et al. 2007 Ostro et al. 2006 2009 . The 13 cm wavelength radar albedos are systematically lower than similar results from the Cassini RADAR instrument at 2.2 cm suggesting a gradient in composition with depth. The most striking observation concerns Iapetus. This Saturnian moon is famous for the dramatic and unique albedo asymmetry between its leading and trailing hemispheres. The Cassini RADAR observations of Iapetus mimic the optical ones Ostro et al. 2006 whereas the ground based 13 cm radar measurements show hardly any hemispheric dichotomy Black et al. 2004 . This means that the dark material of Iapetus the source of which is unknown is thin. It also implies that multiple volume scattering is not as effective at 13 cm as it is at 2 cm. Black et al. 2004 and Ostro et al. 2009 argue that since Iapetus entire surface is mature regolith the wavelength dependence must involve composition rather than structure. Either the composition is a function of depth everywhere with electrical loss much greater at depths greater than a decimeter or two or the regolith material is dispersive with higher losses at higher wavelength .

Both Black et al. 2004 and Ostro et al. 2009 point to ammonia as the most likely contaminant of the icy satellites regolith because it is known to reduce the radar albedo without affecting the visual albedo Lorenz 1998 . Ammonia is indeed expected to be a dominant contaminant due to the cool temperature in the Saturnian nebula Lewis 1972 . It has been unequivocally detected on Enceladus Emery et al. 2005 Verbiscer et al. 2006 .

However the present invention can think of other candidates that would increase the absorptivity of the regolith 1 from cosmo chemical considerations it can be argued that silicate minerals should be present on the surfaces of the icy satellites Lewis 1971 2 organics such as nitriles acetylene polymers or tholins have been detected in the spectra of a number of satellites Owen et al. 2001 Buratti et al. 2005 3 the presence of metallic iron oxides for instance in the form of iron bearing grains has been advanced Brown et al. 2006 Filacchione et al. 2009 submitted . The water ice can also be mixed with other frozen volatiles such as methane carbon monoxides nitrogen carbon dioxide or sulfur dioxide.

Dielectric measurements on various ice mixtures are crucial to be able to properly use the available radar and radiometry observations of the Saturn s icy satellites to constrain the nature and the concentration of the contaminant in their near surface. These measurements will be also useful for the understanding of the surfaces of the Galilean satellites.

The candidates for Titan s surface materials are similar to the icy satellites ones though likely structurally different. Plausible cryovolcanic landforms have been identified on Titan Nelson et al. 2009 Wall et al. 2009 and prompt measurements on ammonia rich water ice samples Mitri et al. 2008 .

However Titan s atmospheric and crystal volatile chemistry produce a complex assemblage of materials in some cases beyond those of other icy bodies that may be mobilized surficially and in the upper crust. Therefore in addition to water ice mixtures candidates for Titan s solid surface should include an accumulation of photochemically produced organic materials tholins resulting from methane in the upper atmosphere and various processed materials developing from this precipitate as in the dunes fields .

Resultant data may be compared to the knowledge of the dielectric properties of the main geological units of Titan obtained from the scatterometry analysis Wye et al. 2007 Wye et al. 2008 and the radiometry polarimetric measurements Janssen et al. 2009 .

Once the experimental 13.8 GHz microwave cavity is validated using liquid nitrogen whose dielectric properties are known Smith et al. 1991 the present invention may perform dielectric measurements on pure methane. The gas handling system may be consistent with safety requirements of various entities e.g. JPL .

From these initial measurements the present invention may determine if modifications to the experimental set up are necessary.

The present invention may then perform measurements on pure ethane and on methane ethane mixtures covering the range of ethane from 0 to 100 in 10 intervals.

Then mixture measurements may be performed that include dissolved nitrogen and solid solutes such as ammonia or tholins for comparison.

The present invention may also perform 13.8 GHz and 2.38 GHz measurements on ice solids relevant to the surfaces of icy satellites.

Measurements on solids may involve pure water ice HO ammonia rich water ice and water ice mixed with other frozen volatiles methane carbon monoxides nitrogen carbon dioxide or sulfur dioxide at the relevant temperatures. Samples of water ice mixed with contaminant such as silicates organics and iron oxides may also be studied.

The full interpretation of the radar and radiometry observations of Saturn s icy satellites depends critically on understanding the dielectric properties of potential surface materials. Thus the present invention may obtain and study the dielectric properties of relevant liquids and solids for Saturn s icy satellites.

The present invention may also provide independent data to support or refute the interpretation of present day liquid lakes on Titan and may improve constrains on lake depths volumes and potentially compositions which are important to understanding Titan s carbon organic cycle and inevitably the evolution of its environment.

The present invention s measurements on solid samples may help constraining the surface composition of the icy satellites of Saturn and thus provide critical insight into the unique processes that have shaped them.

The present invention is relevant to NASA s strategic plan to advanced scientific knowledge of the origin and history of the solar system . . . and contributing to . . . learning how the Sun s family of planets and minor bodies originated and evolved. 

The research is relevant to the objects of Enhancing the scientific return from the New Horizons Cassini Galileo Voyager Pioneer and Ulysses missions by continuing the analysis of their respective data sets through broadened scientific participation Improving our understanding of the evolution of the outer Solar System including the giant planets their satellites and other small bodies and Creating data products useful to the broad scientific community. The approach to be developed here promises to yield significant insight into Titan hydrological hydrocarbon research. It also provides a clear path to future studies specifically the analysis of the radar properties of icy worlds solids.

The present invention may help to understand data from Cassini Huygens studies of Titan and other satellites that have only recently been released to the PDS archive. The present invention may help to fully appreciate the discoveries made by the Cassini Huygens and Galileo missions on icy satellites surfaces and may be of great importance to support the preparation of flagship missions to Europa and the Jupiter System and to Enceladus and Titan.

However many applications are envisaged for the present invention. Applications for the present invention are not limited to those applications described herein.

In one embodiment the computer operates by the general purpose processor A performing instructions defined by the computer program under control of an operating system . The computer program and or the operating system may be stored in the memory and may interface with the user and or other devices to accept input and commands and based on such input and commands and the instructions defined by the computer program and operating system OS to provide output and results.

Output results may be presented on the display or provided to another device for presentation or further processing or action. In one embodiment the display comprises a liquid crystal display LCD having a plurality of separately addressable liquid crystals. Each liquid crystal of the display changes to an opaque or translucent state to form a part of the image on the display in response to the data or information generated by the processor from the application of the instructions of the computer program and or operating system to the input and commands. The image may be provided through a graphical user interface GUI module A. Although the GUI module A is depicted as a separate module the instructions performing the GUI functions can be resident or distributed in the operating system the computer program or implemented with special purpose memory and processors.

Some or all of the operations performed by the computer according to the computer program instructions may be implemented in a special purpose processor B. In this embodiment the some or all of the computer program instructions may be implemented via firmware instructions stored in a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM or flash memory within the special purpose processor B or in memory . The special purpose processor B may also be hardwired through circuit design to perform some or all of the operations to implement the present invention. Further the special purpose processor B may be a hybrid processor which includes dedicated circuitry for performing a subset of functions and other circuits for performing more general functions such as responding to computer program instructions. In one embodiment the special purpose processor is an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computer may also implement a compiler which allows an application program written in a programming language such as COBOL Pascal C FORTRAN or other language to be translated into processor readable code. After completion the application or computer program accesses and manipulates data accepted from I O devices and stored in the memory of the computer using the relationships and logic that was generated using the compiler .

The computer also optionally comprises an external communication device such as a modem satellite link Ethernet card or other device for accepting input from and providing output to other computers .

In one embodiment instructions implementing the operating system the computer program and the compiler are tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium e.g. data storage device which could include one or more fixed or removable data storage devices such as a zip drive floppy disc drive hard drive CD ROM drive tape drive etc. Further the operating system and the computer program are comprised of computer program instructions which when accessed read and executed by the computer causes the computer to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention or to load the program of instructions into a memory thus creating a special purpose data structure causing the computer to operate as a specially programmed computer executing the method steps described herein. Computer program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in memory and or data communications devices thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture program storage device and computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with the computer .

Although the term user computer or client computer is referred to herein it is understood that a user computer may include portable devices such as cell phones notebook computers pocket computers or any other device with suitable processing communication and input output capability.

A network such as the Internet connects clients to server computers . Network may utilize ethernet coaxial cable wireless communications radio frequency RF etc. to connect and provide the communication between clients and servers . Clients may execute a client application or web browser and communicate with server computers executing web servers . Such a web browser is typically a program such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOZILLA FIREFOX OPERA APPLE SAFARI etc. Further the software executing on clients may be downloaded from server computer to client computers and installed as a plug in or ACTIVEX control of a web browser. Accordingly clients may utilize ACTIVEX components component object model COM or distributed COM DCOM components to provide a user interface on a display of client . The web server is typically a program such as MICROSOFT S INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER .

Web server may host an Active Server Page ASP or Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI application which may be executing scripts. The scripts invoke objects that execute business logic referred to as business objects . The business objects then manipulate data in database through a database management system DBMS . Alternatively database may be part of or connected directly to client instead of communicating obtaining the information from database across network . When a developer encapsulates the business functionality into objects the system may be referred to as a component object model COM system. Accordingly the scripts executing on web server and or application invoke COM objects that implement the business logic. Further server may utilize MICROSOFT S Transaction Server MTS to access required data stored in database via an interface such as ADO Active Data Objects OLE DB Object Linking and Embedding DataBase or ODBC Open DataBase Connectivity .

Generally these components all comprise logic and or data that is embodied in or retrievable from device medium signal or carrier e.g. a data storage device a data communications device a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via a network or via another data communications device etc. Moreover this logic and or data when read executed and or interpreted results in the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention being performed.

Although the term user computer client computer and or server computer is referred to herein it is understood that such computers and may include portable devices such as cell phones notebook computers pocket computers or any other device with suitable processing communication and input output capability.

Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components peripherals and other devices may be used with computers and .

Embodiments of the invention are implemented as a software application on a client or server computer .

Barnes J. W. R. H. Brown J. M. Soderblom L. A. Soderblom R. Jaumann B. Jackson S. Le Mou lic C. Sotin B. J. Buratti K. M. Pitman K. H. Baines R. N. Clark P. D. Nicholson E. P. Turtle and J. Perry Shoreline features of Titan s Ontario Lacus from Cassini VIMS observations Icarus 201 217 225 2009.

Barmatz M Microwave Dielectric Property Measurements of Icy Materials and Applications A New Technique for Performing Dielectric Property Measurements presented at the first internal JPL Ices Labs Workshop Feb. 3 2009.

Barmatz M and Jackson H. W. Technique for Performing Dielectric Property Measurements at Microwave Frequencies at http www.techbriefs.com component content article 8328 and page 58 of Tech Briefs August 2010 issue Books and Reports .

Black G. J. Campbell D. B. Nicholson P. D. Icy Galilean satellites Modeling radar reflectivities as a coherent backscatter effect Icarus 151 167 180 2001.

Black G. J. D. B. Campbell L. M. Carter Arecibo radar observations of Rhea Dione Tethys and Enceladus Icarus 191 702 711 2007.

Brown R. H. K. H. Baines G. Bellucci B. J. Buratti F. Capaccioni P. Cerroni R. N. Clark A. Coradini D. P. Cruikshank P. Drossart V. Formisano R. Jaumann Y. Langevin D. L. Matson T. B. McCord V. Mennella R. M. Nelson P. D. Nicholson B. Sicardy C. Sotin N. Baugh C. A. Griffith G. Hansen K. Hibbitts T. W. Momary and M. R. Showalter Observations of the Saturn system during approach and orbital insertion with Cassini s Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer VIMS Astron. Astrophys. 446 707 716 2006.

Clark R. N. Fanale F. P. Gaffey M. J. in Satellites ed. J. A. Burns M. S. Matthews Univ. of Arizona Press 437 1986.

Elachi C. S. Wall M. Allison Y. Anderson R. Boehmer P. Callahan P. Encrenaz E. Flamini G. Franchescetti Y. Gim G. Hamilton S. Hensely M. A. Janssen W. Johnston K. Kelleher R. Kirk R. Lopes R. Lorenz J. Lunine D. Muhleman S. Ostro F. Paganelli G. Picardi F. Posa L. Roth R. Seu S. Shaffer L. Soderblom B. Stiles E. Stofan S. Vetrella R. West C. Wood L. Wye H. Zebker Cassini Radar Views the Surface of Titan Science 308 970 974 13 May 2005.

Emery J. D. Burr D. Cruikshank R. Brown and J. Dalton Near infrared 0.8 4.0 m spectroscopy of Mimas Enceladus Tethys and Rhea Astronomy and Astrophysics 435 1 353 362 2005.

Filacchione G. et al. Saturn s icy satellites investigated by Cassini VIMS. II. Results at the end of nominal mission Icarus submitted 2009.

Ghodgaonkar D. K. V. V. Varadan and V. K. Varadan A free space method for measurement of dielectric constants and loss tangents at microwave frequencies IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 38 3 789 796 1989.

Hayes A. et al. Hydrocarbon lakes on Titan Distribution and interaction with a porous regolith Geophys. Res. Lett. 35 9204 doi 10.1029 2008GL033409 2008.

Hayes A. G et al. in prep. Bathymetry and absorptivity of Titan s Ontario Lacus submitted to J. Geophys. Res.

Jackson H. W. M. Barmatz and P. Wagner Microwave Power Absorption Profile in a Cylindrical Sample Contained in a Resonant Cylindrical Cavity MRS Symp. Proc. Vol. 347 317 1994.

Janssen M. A. R. D. Lorenz R. West F. Paganelli R. M. Lopes R. L. Kirk C. Elachi S. D. Wall W. T. K. Johnson Y. Anderson R. A. Boehmer P. Callahan Y. Gim G. A. Hamilton K. D. Kelleher L. Roth B. Stiles and the Cassini Radar Team Titan s surface at 2.2 cm wavelength imaged by the Cassini RADAR radiometer calibration and first results Icarus 200 222 239 doi 10.1016 j.icarus. 2008.10.017 2009.

Kirk R. L. Howington Kraus E. Redding B. L. Becker T. L. Lee E. M. Stiles B. W. Hensley S. Hayes A. G. Lopes R. M. C. Lorenz R. D. Mitchell K. L. Radebaugh J. Paganelli F. Soderblom L. A. Stofan E. R. Wall S. D. Wood C. A. Elachi C. and the Cassini RADAR Team Three Dimensional Views of Titan s Diverse Surface Features from Cassini RADAR Stereogrammetry Icarus in revision 2010.

Le Mou lic S. P Paillou M. A. Janssen J. W. Barnes S. Rodriguez C. Sotin R. H. Brown K. H. Baines B. J. Buratti R. N. Clark M. Crapeau P. J. Encrenaz R. Jaumann D. Geudtner F. Paganelli L. Soderblom G. Tobie S. Wall. Joint analysis of Cassini VIMS and RADAR data Application to the mapping of Sinlap crater on Titan J. Geophys. Res 113 E04003 doi 10.1029 2007JE002965 2008.

Lewis J. S. Satellites of the outer planets Their chemical and physical nature Icarus 15 174 185 1971.

Lorenz R. D. Preliminary measurements of the cryogenic dielectric properties of water ammonia ices Application to radar observations of icy satellites Icarus 136 344 348 1998.

Lorenz R. Calorimetric Radar Absorptivity Measurements using a Microwave Oven Measurement Science and Technology 10 L29 L32 1999.

Lorenz R. D. and S. E. Shandera Physical properties of ammonia rich ice Application to Titan Geophys. Res. Lett. 28 215 218 2001.

Lorenz R. D. et al. Cassini Radar Prospects for Titan surface investigations using the microwave radiometer Planet. Space Sci. 51 353 364 2003.

Lorenz R. D. S. Wall J. Radebaugh G. Boubin E. Reffet M. A. Janssen E. Stofan R. Lopes R. Kirk C. Elachi J. Lunine K. Mitchell F. Paganelli L. Soderblom C. Wood L. Wye H. Zebker Y. Anderson S. Ostro M. Allison R. Boehmer P. Callahan P. Encrenaz G. G. Ori G. Francescetti Y. Gim G. Hamilton S. Hensley W. Johnson K. Kelleher D. Muhleman G. Picardi F. Posa L. Roth R. Seu S. Shaffer B. Stiles S. Vetrella E. Flamini R. West The Sand Seas of Titan Cassini RADAR Observations of Longitudinal Dunes Science 312 970 974 May 5 2006.

Lorenz R. D. R. M. Lopes F. Paganelli J. I. Lunine R. L. Kirk L. A. Soderblom E. Stofan G. Ori M. Myers H. Miyamoto B. Stiles S. D. Wall C. A. Wood and the Cassini RADAR Team Fluvial Channels on Titan Meteorological Paradigm and Cassini RADAR Observations Planetary and Space Science 56 1132 1144 2008

Maetzler in Solar System Ices B. Schmitt C. DeBergh and M. Festou Eds. pp. 241 257 Kluwer Academic Dordrecht 1998.

Meng B. J. Booske R. Cooper Extended Cavity Perturbation Technique to Determine the Complex Permittivity of Dielectric Materials IEEE Trans. Microwave. Theory Tech. 43 2633 1995.

Mitchell K. L. Stofan E. R. Radebaugh J. Paillou P. Hayes A. Lunine J. I. Lorenz R. D. Stiles B. W. Lopes R. M. Wall S. D. Ventura B. Notarnicola C. Casarano D. Mitri G. Janssen M. Farr T. G. Ostro S. J. in review Titan s north polar lake district Insights from the Cassini Titan Radar Mapper Submitted to Icarus.

Mitri G. A. P. Showman J. I. Lunine R. M. C. Lopes Resurfacing of Titan by ammonia water cryomagma Icarus 196 216 224 2008.

Ostro S. J. R. D. West M. A. Janssen R. D. Lorenz H. A. Zebker G. J. Black J. I. Lunine L. C. Wye R. M. Lopes Gautier S. J. Wall C. Elachi L. Roth S. Hensley K. Kelleher G. A. Hamilton Y. Gim Y. Z. Anderson R. A. Boehmer W. T. K. Johnson and the Cassini RADAR Team Cassini RADAR Observations of Enceladus Tethys Dione Rhea Iapetus Hyperion and Phoebe Icarus 183 479 490 2006.

Ostro S. J. R. D. West L. C. Wye H. A. Zebker M. A. Janssen B. Stiles K. Kelleher Y. Z. Anderson R. A. Boehmer P. Callahan Y. Gim G. A. Hamilton W. T. K. Johnson C. Veeramachaneni R. D. Lorenz and the Cassini RADAR Team New Cassini RADAR Results for Saturn s Icy Satellites 2009 in press.

Paillou P. J. Lunine G. Ruffi P. Encrenaz S. Wall R. Lorenz and M. Janssen Microwave dielectric constant of Titan relevant materials Geophys. Res. Lett. 35 L18202 doi 10.1029 2008GL035216 2008.

Paillou P. K. Mitchell S. Wall G. Ruffi C. Wood R. Lorenz E. Stofan J. Lunine R. Lopes and P. Encrenaz Microwave dielectric constant of liquid hydrocarbons Application to the depth estimation of Titan s lakes Geophys. Res. Lett. 35 L05202 doi 10.1029 2007GL032515 2008a.

Rodriguez S. P. Paillou M. Dobrijevic G. Ruffi P. Coll J. M. Bernard and P. Encrenaz Impact of tholins present in Titan s atmosphere on the Cassini Radar experiment Icarus 164 213 227 2003.

Smith P. A. L. E. Davis T. W. Button and N. McN Alford The dielectric loss tangent of liquid nitrogen Supercond. Sci. Technol. 4 128 129 1991.

Sphicopoulos T. L. G. Bernier and F. Gardiol Theoretical basis for the design of the radially stratified dielectric loaded cavities used in miniaturised atomic frequency standards IEE Proceedings 131 Pt. H No. 2 94 1984.

Stofan E. R. C. Elachi J. I. Lunine R. D. Lorenz B. Stiles K. L. Mitchell S. Ostro L. Soderblom C. Wood H. Zebker S. Wall M. Janssen R. Kirk R. Lopes F. Paganelli J. Radebaugh L. Wye Y. Anderson M. Allison R. Boehmer P. Callahan P. Encrenaz E. Flamini G. Francescetti1 Y. Gim G. Hamilton S. Hensley W. T. K. Johnson K. Kelleher D. Muhleman P. Paillou G. Picardi F. Posa L. Roth R. Seu1 S. Shaffer S. Vetrella1 R. West The lakes of Titan Nature 445 61 64 2007.

Thompson W. D. and S. W. Squyres Titan and other icy satellites Dielectric properties of constituent materials and implications for radar sounding Icarus 86 336 354 1990.

Ulaby F. T. R. K. Moore and A. K. Fung Microwave Remote Sensing Active and Passive Vol. III From Theory to Applications Artech House Dedham Mass. see for example Table E.1 on page 2028 1986

Vaid J. K. A. Prakash and A. Mansingh Measurement of dielectric parameters at microwave frequencies by cavity perturbation technique IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. 27 791 795 1979.

Verbiscer A. D. Peterson M. Skrutskie M. Cushing P. Helfenstein M. Nelson J. Smith and J. Wilson Near infrared spectra of the leading and trailing hemispheres of Enceladus Icarus 182 1 211 223 2006.

Wall S. D. Lopes R. M. Stofan E. R. Wood C. A. Radebaugh J. L. Stiles B. W. Nelson R. M. Kamp L. W. Janssen M. A. Lorenz R. L. Lunine J. I. Farr T. G. Mitri G. Paillou P. Paganelli F. and Mitchell K. L. Cassini RADAR images at Hotei Arcus and western Xanadu Titan evidence for geologically recent cryovolcanic activity Geophys. Res. Letters 36 L04203 doi 10.1029 2008 GL036415 2009.

Warren S. G. Optical constants of ice from the ultraviolet to the microwave Applied Optics 23 1206 see for example page 1215 1985.

Wilson C. W. Schramm and J. P. Kinzer High Q resonant cavities for microwave testing in Radar Systems and Components Members of the Technical Staff of Bell Laboratories Van Nostrand N.Y. P. 909 1949 .

Wye L. C. H. A. Zebker S. J. Ostro R. D. West Y. Gim R. D. Lorenz and the Cassini RADAR Team Electrical Properties of Titan s Surface from Cassini RADAR Scatterometer Measurements Icarus 188 367 385 2007.

Wye L. C. H. Zebker R. Lopes B. Peckyno A. Le Gall M. Janssen Surface Parameters of Titan Feature Classes From Cassini RADAR Backscatter Measurements AGU Fall Meeting San Francisco USA Dec. 15 19 2008.

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The foregoing description of one or more embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

