---

title: Providing and accessing data in a standard-compliant manner
abstract: In certain embodiments, a computer-implemented method includes receiving intercepted data associated with a first entity. The intercepted data may be intercepted in response to a request for information from a second entity. The method may include converting the intercepted data from a first format to a second format, the second format compliant with a standard for providing intercepted data to the second entity. The method may include storing, in one or more memory units, the intercepted communication data in the second format. The one or more memory units may be part of a subset of a plurality of computing resources designated for use by the first entity. The method may include storing audit data providing a record of a chain of custody of the intercepted communication data. The method may include providing access to a portion of the stored intercepted communication data in the second format to the second entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432407&OS=09432407&RS=09432407
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09432407
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101227
---
An entity such as a business university or individual may find it appropriate to capture certain information and to provide that information to another entity. For example a first entity may receive a request to provide information to a second entity. If the first entity determines that the request is legitimate the first entity may capture information responsive to the request and provide some or all of the captured information to the second entity. In some scenarios the first entity may provide the information to the second entity in a manner compliant with a pertinent standard.

As just one particular example as part of a warrant or other potentially legitimate request a law enforcement agency may request that an entity capture certain information and provide some or all of that information to the law enforcement agency possibly in a manner compliant with an applicable standard. One example of such a compliance standard is defined by the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA . Capturing and providing the responsive information in a timely manner may be a difficult expensive and time consuming process for the responding entity particularly when subject to an applicable standard. In some situations failing to respond to the request in a timely and appropriate manner may result in monetary fines seizure of property or other consequences potentially detrimental to the entity receiving the request.

As described above an entity may be in a position to capture certain information and provide some or all of the captured information to a second entity possibly in response to a request from the second entity. Throughout this disclosure reference to providing the information may include actually providing the information to another entity or otherwise making the information available to the other entity.

As just one example the entity requesting information from another entity may be a law enforcement agency and the entity responding to the request for information may be a business enterprise. The law enforcement agency may be for example the Federal Bureau of Investigations FBI the National Security Agency Central Security Service NSA CSS a state law enforcement agency a local police department or any other suitable law enforcement agency such as one capable of obtaining and enforcing a warrant. The business enterprise may include any suitable type of business with one example being a communications service provider. In this scenario in which the requesting entity is a law enforcement agency and the responding entity is a communications service provider the request for information could be a warrant for the communications service provider to establish a wiretap and capture information associated with communication sessions facilitated by the communications service provider including potentially message content.

In some scenarios the first entity may provide the information to the second entity in a manner compliant with an applicable standard. For example the standard may be specified by the requesting entity and or may be specified by law regulation or other applicable authority. The pertinent standard in the case of a law enforcement information request of a communications service provider may be specified in the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA . Providing the information in a manner complaint with the standard e.g. the CALEA may include providing the information in a particular format converting the information between or among a variety of formats providing an audit trail for the information providing certain reporting capabilities with respect to the information providing an appropriate communications interface and other suitable requirements.

Complying with the standard such as the CALEA may impose certain burdens on the entity providing the information. Depending on the type and time frame of the information request large quantities of data may be responsive to request and purchasing and maintaining sufficient resources for handling this data may be difficult and costly. The entity may be required to purchase and maintain certain information technology IT infrastructure for responding to the request. For example the IT infrastructure may include software for complying with the standard. As another example such IT infrastructure may include dedicated hardware for use in case of receiving a request for information. Purchasing and maintaining this IT infrastructure may be particularly burdensome given that the IT infrastructure may be unused unless and until the entity actually receives a request to provide the information in compliance with the standard. Alternatively if the entity waits to purchase and set up the appropriate IT infrastructure until a request for information is received the entity may have insufficient time to set up the infrastructure. In some cases failing to respond to the request in timely manner may result in additional costs and or result in seizure of some or all of the entity s IT infrastructure.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure ease the burden on an entity for providing information to another entity in a manner compliant with an applicable standard. For example certain embodiments allow a responding entity to use a provisioned computing resources environment maintained by a third party to store and maintain information captured in response to an information request in a manner that is compliant with an applicable standard. While in some scenarios the responding entity may still bear responsibility for capturing information responsive to the request allowing the responding entity to offload the burden of storing and maintaining the responsive information may reduce or eliminate various costs and other problems associated with responding to such information requests. Some embodiments may assist the responding entity in responding to the information request in a timely manner which may avoid further costs and or seizure of property.

Additionally or alternatively some embodiments of the present disclosure allow a requesting entity i.e. an entity requesting that another entity provide information according to an applicable standard to access data that has been provided in a standard compliant manner and to convert that data from a standard compliant format to one or more formats suitable for use by the entity. For example certain embodiments allow a requesting entity to use a provisioned computing resources environment maintained by a third party to store and maintain information provided by another entity in a standards compliant manner.

Although embodiments in which the requesting entity is a law enforcement agency and the responding entity is a communications service provider are primarily described it should be understood that the present disclosure contemplates system and techniques consistent with the present disclosure being used for any suitable types of entities according to particular needs. For example either or both of the requesting and responding entity may be a law enforcement agency a business a university a government e.g. a governmental branch agency or other suitable division an individual or any other suitable type of entity that may request and or provide information in a manner compliant with a standard. Additionally embodiments in which the applicable standard is specified in the CALEA it should be understood that the present disclosure contemplates the applicable standard being any suitable standard for providing information responsive to a request.

Portions of system may provide an environment in which one or more computing resources e.g. computing resources of provisioned computing resources environment are made available over a communication network e.g. network to one or more remote computer systems e.g. user system and or of external computing environment . In certain embodiments a portion or all of the components of provisioned computing resources environment form a computing infrastructure which may be communicatively coupled together over a high speed communication network. For example processing system storage module and computing resources may comprise a computing infrastructure and be communicatively coupled together over a high speed communication network. User system user system and or network may be external to provisioned computing resources environment .

In certain embodiments provisioned computing resources environment including for example one or more of processing system storage module and computing resources may provide a collection of remote computing services offered over a network e.g. network . Those computing services may include for example storage power processors applications or any other suitable computing resources that may be made available over network . In certain embodiments entities accessing those computing services may gain access to a suite of elastic information technology IT infrastructure services e.g. computing resources as the entity requests those services. Provisioned computing resources environment may provide a scalable reliable and secure distributed computing infrastructure.

In general a first entity e.g. via user system associated with external computing environment may use computing resources associated with provisioned computing resources environment to provide information to a second entity e.g. associated with user system in a manner compliant with an applicable standard. Computing resources used by the first entity may include storage processing and or other suitable computing resources which may be provided to the first entity in a secure manner. For example the first entity using user system may store information responsive to an information request of a second entity using computing resources that have been designated for use by the first entity. Components of provisioned computing resources environment may facilitate the storage and maintenance of the data in a manner that is compliant with the applicable standard. A second entity i.e. an entity requesting that another entity provide information according to an applicable standard associated with external computing environment may use computing resources to access data that has been provided in a standard compliant manner and to convert that data to from a standard compliant format to one or more formats suitable for use by the second entity.

User systems and may each include one or more computer systems at one or more locations. Each computer system may include any appropriate input devices output devices mass storage media processors memory or other suitable components for receiving processing storing and communicating data. For example each computer system may include a personal computer workstation network computer kiosk wireless data port personal data assistant PDA one or more Internet Protocol IP telephones one or more servers a server pool one or more processors within these or other devices or any other suitable processing device. Each of user systems and may be a stand alone computer or may be a part of a larger network of computers associated with an entity.

User systems and may each include a processing unit and a memory unit. The processing unit may include one or more microprocessors controllers or any other suitable computing devices or resources. The processing unit may work either alone or with other components of system to provide a portion or all of the functionality of its associated user system described herein. The memory unit may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media RAM ROM removable media or any other suitable memory component.

As described above user system may be associated with a first entity and user system may be associated with a second entity. Each of the first and second entities may be any suitable type of entity. For example each entity may be a corporation a university a government e.g. a governmental branch agency or other suitable division an individual or any other suitable type of entity. The first and second entities may be the same type or different types of entities. For purposes of this description it will be assumed that the second entity requests information be provided by the first entity to the second entity in a manner compliant with a standard.

As described above in a particular example the second entity may be a law enforcement agency and the first entity may be a communications service provider. As another example the law enforcement agency may include a Federal and or state law enforcement agency such as the FBI the NSA CSS a state or local police department or other law enforcement agency or any other suitable law enforcement agency. In some embodiments in which the second entity is a law enforcement agency the first entity may be responding to a warrant or other request for information from the law enforcement agency. As a more particular example in an embodiment in which the first entity is a communications service provider the request for information may be based on a warrant authorizing a wiretap.

User system may be coupled to or otherwise associated with a storage module . Storage module may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media read access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable memory component. In certain embodiments a portion of all of storage module may include a database such as one or more structured query language SQL servers or relational databases. Storage module may be a part of or distinct from a memory unit of user system .

Storage module may store intercepted data . For example user system may capture and store intercepted data in storage module . Intercepted data may include any data responsive to an information request of the second entity a portion or all of which ultimately may be made available to the second entity. In an example in which the first entity is a communications service provider the second entity is a law enforcement agency and the request is a wiretap order intercepted data may include data that is captured from communication sessions and may be referred to as intercepted communication data.

The intercepted communication data e.g. intercepted data may be data generated during one or more communication sessions by one or more users e.g. subscribers or other users of a communication infrastructure provided or otherwise managed by the communications service provider. For example the intercepted communication data may be captured from communication sessions as part of the wiretap set up in response to the wiretap order.

Intercepted communication data e.g. intercepted data may include one or more of metadata regarding a communication session e.g. caller identity callee identity caller phone number callee phone number or other suitable information and communication session content e.g. a recorded conversation a message content etc. . The communication may be a voice session a data session a combination of a voice and data session or any other suitable type of communication session. Although described as intercepted intercepted data may be captured in any suitable manner according to particular needs.

In certain embodiments the information to be captured and stored by user system may be captured from one or more monitored components . Monitored components may include any suitable types of electronic devices operable to generate or otherwise process data. In certain embodiments user system captures intercepted data e.g. intercepted communication data from monitored components . The logic that is responsible for capturing the intercepted data may be stored on user system monitored components or at any other suitable location and may include any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software.

In an example in which the request for information is a request for intercepted communication data e.g. a wiretap warrant and the first entity associated with user system in this example is a service provider monitored components may include a portion or all of a communications network infrastructure by which communications may be processed. Intercepted data in this example may include information captured by tapping into communications over a network of monitored components .

As described briefly above certain types of information requests e.g. from a second entity to a first entity may specify that information responsive to the request be provided in a manner compliant with an appropriate standard e.g. the CALEA with at least certain law enforcement requests . Providing information in a manner compliant with a standard may include capturing the information in a particular manner formatting the captured information in a particular manner storing the information in a particular manner storing information associated with a number of auditable events e.g. to provide a chain of title of the information or any of a number of other operations .

Furthermore depending on the type and time frame of information request large quantities of intercepted data may be captured. With certain standards such as the CALEA an entity responding to a request e.g. the first entity may be given a time period in which to at least begin providing responsive information in a manner compliant with the standard. If the entity fails to provide the information in the time period and or in a manner compliant with the standard the entity may be subject to fines and or seizure of property such as IT assets of the entity. The seizure of this property may present a significant disruption to the entity and if the entity is a business result in a loss of business. Thus at least certain entities may find it appropriate to be prepared to handle such information in a timely and compliant manner. Embodiments of the present disclosure allow an entity e.g. the first entity associated with user system to use provisioned computing resources environment for providing information to the second entity in a manner compliant with a standard.

User system associated with the first entity may access provisioned computing resources environment via a network . Network facilitates wireless or wireline communication. Network may communicate for example IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. Network may include one or more local area networks LANs radio access networks RANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs mobile networks e.g. using WiMax 802.16 WiFi 802.11 3G or any other suitable wireless technologies in any suitable combination all or a portion of the global computer network known as the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations any of which may be any suitable combination of wireless and wireline. In certain embodiments network comprises one or more virtual private connections through which entities e.g. user system and or user system may communicate with appropriate components of provisioned computing resources environment .

As described above provisioned computing resources environment may include processing system storage module and computing resources . Although provisioned computing resources environment is illustrated as including these particular components the present disclosure contemplates provisioned computing resources environment including any suitable components according to particular needs.

Processing system may include one or more computer systems at one or more locations. Each computer system may include any appropriate input devices output devices mass storage media processors memory or other suitable components for receiving processing storing and communicating data. For example each computer system may include a personal computer workstation network computer kiosk wireless data port PDA one or more IP telephones one or more servers a server pool switch router disks or disk arrays one or more processors within these or other devices or any other suitable processing device. Processing system may be a stand alone computer or may be a part of a larger network of computers associated with an entity.

Processing system may include processing unit and memory unit . Processing unit may include one or more microprocessors controllers or any other suitable computing devices or resources. Processing unit may work either alone or with other components of system to provide a portion or all of the functionality of provisioned computing resources environment described herein. Memory unit may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media RAM ROM removable media or any other suitable memory component.

Processing system may facilitate making computing resources available over a network e.g. network and may manage the provision of computing resources to other computing systems e.g. user systems and over network . For example processing system may control access to and rationing of computing resources to other computing systems over network .

In certain embodiments processing system may be used by user systems and or to access provisioned computing resources environment . For example user systems and may be able to access processing system to set aside computing resources to be designated for use by the user system and to configure the designated computing resources for a desired use. In certain embodiments processing system may facilitate user system making information available to a second entity in a manner that is compliant with a standard. Additionally or alternatively processing system may facilitate user system accessing a portion or all of information that has been made available to the second entity by the first entity in a manner that is compliant with the standard. Additional details regarding the operations provided by processing system are described in greater detail below after the following description of computing resources .

Computing resources may include any suitable computing resources that may be made available over a network e.g. network . Computing resources may include any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. As just a few examples computing resources may include any suitable combination of applications processors storage and any other suitable computing resources that may be made available over network . Computing resources may each be substantially similar to one another or may be heterogeneous. As described above entities accessing computing services provided by provisioned computing resources environment may gain access to a suite of elastic IT infrastructure services e.g. computing resources as the entity requests those services. Provisioned computing resources environment may provide a scalable reliable and secure distributed computing infrastructure and may be implemented through a web services application programming interface API .

In the illustrated example each set of computing resources e.g. computing resources . . . includes a computing system and a storage module . Although this particular configuration of computing resources is illustrated and primarily described the present disclosure contemplates system including any suitable configuration of computing resources according to particular needs.

Each computing system may comprise a processing unit and a memory unit . Processing unit may include one or more microprocessors controllers or any other suitable computing devices or resources. Processing unit may work either alone or with other components of system to provide a portion or all of the functionality of system described herein. Memory unit may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media RAM ROM removable media or any other suitable memory component. In certain embodiments a portion of all of memory unit may include a database such as one or more SQL servers or relational databases. Storage module may be a part of or distinct from memory unit of computing system .

Returning to processing system processing system may be coupled or otherwise associated with a storage module . Storage module may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media RAM ROM removable media or any other suitable memory component. In certain embodiments a portion of all of storage module may include a database such as one or more SQL servers or relational databases. Storage module may be a part of or distinct from memory unit of processing system .

Storage module may store a variety of information and applications that may be used by processing system or other suitable components of system . In the illustrated example storage module stores configuration tool compliance tool audit tool and audit data each of which are described in greater detail below. Although storage module is described as including these particular information and applications storage module may store any other suitable information and applications. Furthermore although these particular information and applications are described as being stored in storage module the present description contemplates storing this particular information and applications in any suitable location according to particular needs.

As described briefly above in response to an information request e.g. from an entity associated with user system an entity associated with user system may use provisioned computing resources environment to store information responsive to the request e.g. intercepted data in a manner compliant with an applicable standard. The applications and data of storage module may facilitate the storing of such information in a manner compliant with the standard. The roles of the components of storage module in facilitating the storing of such information in a manner compliant with the standard according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure are described in greater detail below.

Configuration tool may be operable to assist an entity in setting aside computing resources to be designated for use by the entity and to configure the designated computing resources for a desired use. For a first entity that is responding to a request for information the desired use may include for example providing intercepted data to a second entity in a manner compliant with a standard. Configuration tool may assist the first entity in configuring computing resources designated for use by the first entity to provide data to the second entity in a manner compliant with the standard. For the second entity which may be provided the standardized intercepted information the desired use may include for example converting the standardized intercepted data to a format more useful to the second entity. Configuration tool may assist the second entity in configuring computing resources designated for use by the second entity to convert data from a standard compliant format e.g. the format in which it was provided to the second entity by the first entity to another format that may be more useful to the second entity.

In certain embodiments configuration tool may be a part of a larger application for monitoring or otherwise managing the provision of computing resources over a network. An example method for configuring computing resources for providing data in a standard compliant manner is described in detail below with respect to .

Compliance tool may comprise any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. Compliance tool may facilitate ensuring that intercepted data received from the first entity is provided to the second entity in a manner compliant with the applicable standard. For example compliance tool may use various rules and other functions to ensure the proper formatting and reporting for ensuring that intercepted data received from the first entity is provided to the second entity in a manner compliant with the applicable standard. As just one particular example compliance tool may comprise a tool for ensuring that intercepted communication data is provided to a second entity in compliance with standards specified in the CALEA.

In general compliance tool is operable to control the conversion of intercepted data from a first non standard compliant format to a format compliant with a standard in which it is to be provided to a requesting entity. Compliance tool may be operable to convert intercepted data from a first format to one or more other formats. For example the first format may include the format in which intercepted data was received from user system and the second format may include a format that is compliant with the applicable standard. Compliance tool may store the converted data as standardized intercepted data . Although only these two formats are illustrated as being stored in storage module compliance tool may store any other formats of intercepted data if appropriate. For example compliance tool may convert intercepted data through one or more intermediate formats before generating standardized intercepted data .

In certain embodiments a specialized compliance tool may also facilitate the conversion of intercepted data from a first non standard compliant format to a format compliant with a standard in which it is to be provided to a requesting entity. For example for certain types of intercepted data e.g. data in certain proprietary formats or for certain standards e.g. requiring that data be provided in certain proprietary formats specialized compliance tool may provide functionality for handling processing data from or converting data to those proprietary formats.

Specialized compliance tool may include any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software. Although in the illustrated example specialized compliance tool is shown as being stored at computing system specialized compliance tool may be located at any suitable location of system . In certain embodiments specialized compliance tool differs from compliance tool in that specialized compliance tool may relate to the processing of the specific type of intercepted data and or the format in which the second entity is requesting that intercepted data be provided while compliance tool may relate to aspects of compliance with the standard that are generic as to the type of intercepted data . However the present disclosure contemplates either or both of compliance tool and specialized compliance tool being configured for the particular type of intercepted data and or the format in which the second entity is requesting that intercepted data be provided. One advantage of certain embodiments of the present disclosure is that the first entity may not be required to purchase and maintain specialized compliance tool which may be a tool required to convert intercepted data to standardized intercepted data . Instead an operator of provisioned computing resources environment may provide specialized compliance tool . If appropriate however the first entity may still bear the cost of purchasing specialized compliance tool .

Compliance tool may provide the second entity access to standardized intercepted data . As will be described in greater detail below with respect to standardized intercepted data may be provided to the second entity in a number of ways. As just one example the second entity may also have a designated computing resources environment configured within provisioned computing resources environment . In this example it will be assumed that the designated computing resources environment of the second entity is computing resources . Compliance tool may copy and or move a relevant portion of standardized intercepted data from storage module of computing resources designated for use by the first entity to storage module of computing resources designated for use by the second entity.

In certain embodiments complying with a standard may include certain audit requirements. To that end audit tool may be operable to monitor for auditable events associated with the storage conversion and accessing of intercepted communication data. An auditable event may include receiving intercepted data storing intercepted data converting intercepted data between or among appropriate formats providing access to a portion of the stored communication data or any other types of events that may be suitable for auditing.

In certain embodiments the ability to provide this audit trail may be required by the standard with which the first entity is complying. Additionally or alternatively the ability to provide this audit trail may enhance the usability of the stored information in an appropriate form in an official proceeding. For example in the case of a law enforcement request it may be useful for a portion or all of the stored information to be admissible evidence in a court proceeding. Providing an appropriate audit trail of the transitions and actions with respect to the stored data e.g. intercepted data and or standardized intercepted data may help ensure that information gleaned from the data is legally admissible in court. Audit tool may comprise any suitable combination of hardware firmware and software.

Audit data may include data generated by audit tool or another suitable component of system in association with auditable events. In certain embodiments audit data provides a record of a chain of custody of intercepted data . Audit data may be associated with receiving intercepted data storing intercepted data converting intercepted data between or among appropriate formats e.g. standardized intercepted data providing access to a portion of the stored intercepted data or any other suitable events that may be suitable for auditing.

In certain embodiments audit data includes one or more of timestamp information indicating when an action was performed on intercepted communication data user signature information indicating a user associated with performing an action on intercepted communication data and application signature information indicating an application associated with performing an action on intercepted communication data . Although audit data is illustrated and described as being stored in storage module audit data may be stored in any suitable location of system . As just one example audit data may be stored in the designated computer resources environment of the first entity e.g. in storage module .

Compliance tool and or audit tool and or any other suitable component of system may be operable to generate one or more reports. In certain embodiments the reports may provide one or more of a summary of at least a portion of the stored intercepted data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted data an audit history determined from at least a portion of audit data and any other suitable information. The report may provide evidence of the chain of custody of intercepted data as it was process and stored in provisioned computing resources environment .

Compliance tool and or audit tool and or any other suitable component of system may be operable to reproduce the conversion of intercepted communication data . For example at a time subsequent to the storing of intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. as standardized intercepted communication data in storage module compliance tool and or audit tool may be able to access intercepted communication data stored in storage module to reproduce the conversion of intercepted communication data from the first format e.g. the format in which it was received by processing system from user system to the second format e.g. compliant with the standard .

Details regarding an example method for providing data in a standard compliant manner are described below with respect to .

As described briefly above the second entity i.e. the entity that requested intercepted data be provided in a standard compliant manner may desire to convert standardized intercepted data e.g. stored in its designated computing resources to a format more useful to the second entity. Compliance tool and or audit tool may facilitate allowing the second entity to operate on standardized intercepted data in a manner way that the integrity of the data is maintained. An example method for accessing data that is provided in a standard compliant manner is described in detail below with respect to .

System provides just one example of an environment in which the techniques of the present disclosure may be used. For example compliance and auditing techniques consistent with the present disclosure may be used with respect to any suitable type of information to be provided by a first entity to a second entity in a manner compliant with a standard.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may provide some none or all of the following technical advantages. For example certain embodiments provide a mechanism by which a first entity can respond to an information request from a second entity e.g. an information request from a law enforcement agency in a manner compliant with an applicable standard e.g. the CALEA without maintaining an information technology infrastructure specifically for responding to such information requests. This may provide a more cost effective technique for the entity to respond to such information requests.

In certain embodiments first entity may configure and gain access to a suitable portion or all of provisioned computing resources environment in a pay as desired environment. This may allow first entity to establish appropriate dedicated computing resources e.g. computing resources as needed for responding to a particular information request and then to release those resources with an appropriate clean up process when the use is completed. Thus appropriate amounts of computing resources of provisioned computing resources environment may be provisioned and un provisioned as needed. This may be particular beneficial since it may be relatively rare that the first entity receives requests to provide information in a standard compliant manner especially when considered in light of the cost of maintaining appropriate resources e.g. potentially both hardware and software resources for responding to requests for information in a standard compliant manner. Moreover the scope of requests for information may vary among requests and embodiments of the present disclosure may allow the first entity to tailor the computing resources used from provisioned computing resources environment according to the particular request i.e. rather than purchasing sufficient resources to handle relatively large requests that may never materialize . In other words the first entity may be able to leverage the elasticity of provisioned computing resources environment to handle particular requests on an as needed basis. Furthermore the requesting entity may also be able to reduce or eliminate its capital investment in hardware and or software associated with receiving or otherwise accessing information provided in response to requests.

As described above the responding entity may provide the information to the requesting entity in a variety of ways. In certain embodiments if both the requesting entity e.g. second entity and the responding entity e.g. first entity have dedicated computing resources in provisioned computing resources environment then the process of the responding entity providing information in a standard compliant manner to the requesting entity may be further simplified. For example the requesting entity may establish a private network connection to an appropriate portion of the responding entity s computing resources e.g. to a portion or all of storage module . This may reduce or eliminate a need for the requesting entity to visit the site of the responding entity and or to confiscate property of the responding entity. If appropriate in this scenario the responsive information may remain in provisioned computing resources environment which may reduce resource burdens on both the requesting and the responding entities and provide enhanced assurance of the validity of the provided information.

In some scenarios the requesting entity may be responsible e.g. as dictated by a statute or other suitable authority for reimbursing the responding entity for a portion or all of the costs associated with providing responsive information in a standard compliant manner. Use of provisioned computing resources environment may ease the burden on both the requesting and responding entities of calculating the costs to be reimbursed. For example certain embodiments may improve the ability to estimate costs associated with gathering and accessing responsive information in a standard compliant manner.

In certain embodiments an entity associated with operating or otherwise managing a portion or all of provisioned computing resources environment may automatically bill the appropriate entity for costs associated with use of computing resources to provide and or access information in a standard compliant manner. For example in the above described scenario the requesting entity may be responsible for reimbursing the responding entity for costs associated with providing responsive information in standard compliant manner. However rather than billing the responding entity and then burdening the responding entity with requesting a reimbursement from the requesting entity certain embodiments of the present disclosure may automatically bill the requesting entity for costs associated with providing and or accessing responsive information. The entity associated with operating or otherwise managing provisioned computing resources environment may be able to determine the amount of computing resources used in providing responsive information in a standard compliant manner and the associated costs which may facilitate this automated billing.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may provide some all or none of these advantages. Certain embodiments may provide one or more other technical advantages some of which may be described herein and one or more of which may be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the figures descriptions and claims included herein.

At step processing system may receive a request to instantiate designated computing resource environment for a first entity. For example configuration tool may receive a request from user system to instantiate designated computing resource environment for an entity associated with user system . User system may be associated with a first entity which may communicate the instantiation request in response to receiving a request for information from a second entity although the present disclosure contemplates user system communicating the request at any suitable time . The instantiation request may include any suitable type of information which may be referred to as instantiation request data. For example the instantiation request may specify one or more of the types of computing resources requested the amount of computing resources requested that standard with which the entity will be complying and any other suitable information for configuring the designated computing resource environment or for other suitable purposes.

At step processing system may instantiate the designated computing resource environment for the first entity. For example configuration tool may instantiate the designated computing resource environment for the first entity. In the illustrated example while computing resources may be available for use by any of a number of entities computing resources are designated for use by the first entity. The designated computing resources environment for the first entity i.e. designated computing resources may provide a secure environment with which the first entity can interact and process and store data e.g. intercepted data .

At step processing system may access instantiation request data. For example configuration tool may access the instantiation request data which may be included in the request to instantiate designated computing resource environment for a first entity. If appropriate configuration tool may store the instantiation request data e.g. in storage module .

At step processing system may determine configuration data according to the instantiation request data. For example configuration tool may determine configuration data according to the instantiation request. If appropriate configuration tool may store the configuration data e.g. in storage module . The configuration data may specify a configuration for the designated computing resource environment for the first entity e.g. computing resources . In general the configuration data may specify a configuration of the designated computing resources environment that will allow the first entity to make intercepted data available to the second entity in a manner compliant with the standard.

At step processing system may configure the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data. In certain embodiments configuration tool may configure the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data.

As an example configuring the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data may include assigning an appropriate compliance tool to handle intercepted data received from user system . As another example configuring the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data may include assigning audit tool to monitor interactions with intercepted communication data and its subsequent formats for auditable events. As another example configuring the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data may include installing and or otherwise configuring a specialized compliance tool for converting intercepted data to an appropriate standards compliant format. As another example configuring the designated computing resource environment for the first entity according to the determined configuration data may include assigning appropriate access rights to the designated computing resource environment.

At step processing system may determine whether the first entity approves of the configured designated computing resource environment. For example configuration tool may communicate a request for approval to user system requesting first entity approval of the configured designated computing resource environment. An appropriately authorized user associated with the first entity may accept or reject the configured designated computing resource environment.

If processing system determines at step that the first entity does not approve of the configured designated computing resource environment then at step the configured designated computing resource environment may be modified. For example the first entity may request various modifications to the configured designated computing resources environment and the configured designated computing resource environment may be modified to meet those requested modification. The determination at step may be made as many times as appropriate to achieve an acceptable configuration of the designated computing resources environment.

If processing system determines at step that the first entity approves of the configured designated computing resource environment then at step processing system may lock down the configured designated computing resource environment for the first entity. In certain embodiments locking down the configured designated computing resource environment includes preventing a user e.g. associated with user system from modifying the configuration of the computing resources e.g. computing resources in a manner that is not compliant with the applicable standard.

Once the configured designated computing resources environment is configured in a manner acceptable to the first entity the method may end. The result of the method described with respect to may be a configured designated computing resource environment that the first entity can use to provide data to the second entity in a manner compliant with an appropriate standard.

At step processing system may receive intercepted communication data associated with a first entity. For example processing system may receive intercepted communication data from user system associated with the first entity. Intercepted communication data may be received in any suitable format that enables intercepted communication data to be provided to the second entity in a manner compliant with the applicable standard. For example intercepted communication data may be received from user system in the raw format in which it was captured by the first entity e.g. from monitored components . As another example any suitable processing such as reordering of packets may be performed on the raw captured data prior to user system communicating intercepted communication data to processing system . As another example this processing may be performed by processing system if appropriate.

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the receipt of intercepted communication data .

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may store the received intercepted communication data . For example in an embodiment in which computing resources have been designated for use by the first entity and configured appropriately for storing information in compliance with an applicable standard compliance tool may store the received intercepted communication data in storage module . Intercepted communication data may be stored in the same format in which it was received from the first entity e.g. via user system or in a different format from the one in which it was received from the first entity.

As indicated by the revolving arrows adjacent to the bracket spanning steps through intercepted communication data may be received converted and stored on an ongoing basis such as when the information is captured by and communicated from user system .

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the storing of the intercepted communication data .

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may convert intercepted communication data from the first format to a format compliant with a standard e.g. standardized intercepted communication data . Although only one conversion is illustrated and described the present disclosure contemplates converting intercepted communication data through any suitable number and types of formats to reach a format appropriate for complying with the standard e.g. standardized intercepted communication data . In certain embodiments a specialized compliance tool may be used to facilitate the conversion of intercepted communication data from the first format to a format compliant with a standard.

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the conversion of intercepted communication data from the first format to a format compliant with a standard e.g. standardized intercepted communication data .

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may store intercepted communication data in a format compliant with the standard e.g. standardized intercepted communication data . In certain embodiments processing system may store intercepted communication data in storage module of computing resources . At this point standardized intercepted communication data may be available to be provided to the second entity that requested the information.

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the storing of the intercepted communication data in the format compliant with the standard e.g. as standardized intercepted communication data .

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may monitor for additional auditable events. For example steps through illustrate monitoring for additional events according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure. These particular events are provided for example purposes only.

At step processing system may receive a request to provide a second entity access to the stored intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data . For example user system associated with the second entity may communicate a request to processing system for access to standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the received request to provide the second entity access to standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module

At step processing system may determine whether the second entity is authorized to access the intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module . As described above when the designated computing resources environment of the first entity is configured permissions associated with whom is authorized to access stored data may be specified. Processing system may access those permissions in response to a request for access to standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module to determine whether the requesting entity is authorized to access the data.

If processing system determines at step that the second entity is not authorized to access the intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module then at step processing system may deny the second entity access to the intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module . For example processing system may communicate a denial of access message to user system associated with the second entity. Additionally or alternatively if processing system determines at step that the second entity is not authorized to access the intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module then at step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with one or more of the request for access to the intercepted communication data in the second format and the denial of access to the intercepted communication data in the second format.

If processing system determines at step that the second entity is authorized to access the intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module then at step processing system may provide the second entity access to the stored intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module . A variety of techniques may be used to provide the second entity access to the stored intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module . A few examples are described below.

As a first example the second entity may also have a designated computing resources environment configured within provisioned computing resources environment . In this example it will be assumed that the designated computing resources environment of the second entity is computing resources . In such embodiments providing the second entity access to the standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module designated for use by the first entity may include copying a relevant portion of the standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module from storage module to another storage module designated for use by the second entity .

As another example providing the second entity access to the standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module designated for use by the first entity may include authorizing one or more users of the second entity to access standardized intercepted communication data in storage module designated for the first entity .

As yet another example providing the second entity access to the standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module designated for use by the first entity may include removing one or more storage media storing the intercepted communication data in the second format and delivering the one or more storage media to the second entity. In this example a pertinent portion of storage module storing relevant standardized intercepted communication data may be removed and delivered to the second entity. Additionally or alternatively rather than removing portions of storage module relevant portions of standardized intercepted communication data may be copied from storage module to a portable storage medium either computer readable or another suitable format to be delivered to the second entity.

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the provision to the second entity of access to the stored intercepted communication data in the second format e.g. standardized intercepted communication data .

At step processing system may receive a request to provide the second entity access to audit data . For example user system associated with the second entity may communicate a request to processing system for access to a portion or all of audit data .

At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the received request for access to audit data .

At step processing system may determine whether the second entity is authorized to access audit data . As described above when the designated computing resources environment of the first entity is configured permissions associated with whom is authorized to access stored data may be specified. Processing system may access those permissions in response to a request for access to audit data to determine whether the requesting entity is authorized to access the requested audit data .

If processing system determines at step that the second entity is not authorized to access the requested audit data then at step processing system may deny the second entity access to the requested audit data . For example processing system may communicate a denial of access message to user system associated with the second entity. Additionally or alternatively if processing system determines at step that the second entity is not authorized to access the requested audit data then at step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with one or more of the request for access to audit data and the denial of access to the requested audit data .

If processing system determines at step that the second entity is authorized to access the requested audit data then at step processing system may provide the second entity access to the requested audit data . A variety of techniques may be used to provide the second entity access to the stored audit data . For example any of the techniques described above for providing the second entity access to standardized intercepted communication data stored in storage module may be used to provide the second entity with access to stored audit data . At step processing system e.g. audit tool may store audit data associated with the provision to the second entity of the requested audit data .

As indicated by the revolving arrows adjacent to the bracket spanning steps through processing system may monitor for auditable events on an ongoing basis. Additionally although these particular auditable events are described the present disclosure contemplates processing system e.g. audit tool monitoring for any suitable auditable events.

At step processing system may determine whether a termination event has been detected. For example the first entity e.g. via user system may communicate a request indicating that the instantiation of the designated computing resources environment for the first entity e.g. computing resources should be terminated. Alternatively the request may simply indicate that storage module should be wiped clean of any information related to standardized intercepted data and its subsequent processing including possibly audit data .

If processing system e.g. configuration tool determines at step that a termination event has not been detected then the method may return to step at which processing system e.g. audit tool may continue to monitor for an auditable event. Processing system may also continue to receive and process intercepted communication data e.g. at steps through if appropriate.

If processing system e.g. configuration tool determines at step that a termination event has been detected then at step processing system e.g. configuration tool may terminate the instantiation of the designated computing resources environment for the first entity and perform an appropriate clean up process. The appropriate clean up process may include wiping any relevant storage volumes e.g. storage module clean of any information related to standardized intercepted data and its subsequent processing including possibly audit data . In certain embodiments in response to the termination event processing system may make a portion or all of the computing resources that were designated for use by the first entity available for use by any of a number of entities e.g. by returning computing resources to a pool of computing resources available to be provisioned for use by any of a number of entities .

It should also be noted that throughout the example processing described above processing system may add or remove computing resources to or from the computing resources designated for use by the first entity e.g. computing resources . Thus at various times computing resources designated for use by the first entity computing resources may include varying amounts of computing resources. This may provide a flexible pay as needed type of environment for the first entity.

At step processing system may receive standardized intercepted data associated with a first entity in a format that is compliant with a standard. For example a second entity may have been provided information from a first entity in a manner compliant with a standard. However the second entity may desire to have this information converted into another format for use. It may be appropriate to monitor this conversion process in an auditable manner such that the authenticity of the information can be verified at a later time. In certain embodiments a portion of computing resources e.g. computing resources may be designated for use by the second entity and receiving the standardized intercepted data may simply comprise accessing that data stored in storage module designated to the second entity.

At step audit tool may store audit data associated with the receipt of standardized intercepted data associated with the first entity in the format that is compliant with the standard.

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may store the received standardized intercepted data associated with the first entity in the format that is compliant with the standard. For example the received standardized intercepted data associated with the first entity in the format that is compliant with the standard may be stored in storage module . This stored data may provide a reliable copy of the received standardized intercepted data .

At step audit tool may store audit data associated with the storing of intercepted data associated with the first entity in the format that is compliant with the standard.

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may convert standardized intercepted communication data from the format compliant with the standard to a second format. Although only one conversion is illustrated and described the present disclosure contemplates converting standardized intercepted data through any suitable number and types of formats to reach a format appropriate for the second entity. For example the second entity may provide instructions for the format to which the standardized intercepted data should be converted. In certain embodiments the format may simply be the original format in which the intercepted data was received from the first entity.

At step audit tool may store audit data associated with the conversion of standardized intercepted data .

At step processing system e.g. compliance tool may store the converted standardized intercepted communication data in the second format. For example processing system may store the converted standardized intercepted communications data in the second format in storage module

At step audit tool may store audit data associated with the storing of standardized intercepted data in the second format.

At step audit tool may monitor for additional auditable events. These auditable events may include any suitable types of events. For example auditable events may include additional conversions of the stored data other processing performed on the stored data requests for access to the stored data granting of access to the stored data and any other suitable events that may be appropriate to monitor for recording a chain of custody and other information regarding the stored data. Each time an auditable event is detected e.g. by audit tool audit tool may store audit data associated with the auditable event.

At step processing system e.g. configuration tool may determine whether a termination event has been detected. For example the second entity e.g. via user system may communicate a request indicating that the instantiation of the designated computing resources environment for the second entity e.g. computing resources should be terminated. Alternatively the request may simply indicate that storage module should be wiped clean of any information related to standardized intercepted data and its subsequent processing including possibly audit data .

If processing system e.g. configuration tool determines at step that a termination event has not been detected then the method may return to step at which processing system e.g. audit tool may continue to monitor for an auditable event.

If processing system e.g. configuration tool determines at step that a termination event has been detected then at step processing system e.g. configuration tool may terminate the instantiation of the designated computing resources environment for the second entity and perform an appropriate clean up process. The appropriate clean up process may include wiping any relevant storage volumes e.g. storage module clean of any information related to standardized intercepted data and its subsequent processing including possibly audit data . In certain embodiments in response to the termination event processing system may make a portion or all of the computing resources that were designated for use by the second entity available for use by any of a number of entities e.g. by returning computing resources to a pool of computing resources available to be provisioned for use by any of a number of entities .

It should also be noted that throughout the example processing described above processing system may add or remove computing resources to or from the computing resources designated for use by the second entity e.g. computing resources . Thus at various times computing resources designated for use by the second entity computing resources may include varying amounts of computing resources. This may provide a flexible pay as needed type of environment for the second entity.

The methods described above with respect to may be implemented in any suitable combination of software firmware and hardware. Additionally although particular components may be identified as performing particular steps of the methods described above with respect to the present disclosure contemplates any suitable components performing the steps according to particular needs.

Computer system may have one or more input devices which may include a keypad keyboard mouse stylus or other input devices one or more output devices which may include one or more displays one or more speakers one or more printers or other output devices one or more storage devices and one or more storage media . An input device may be external or internal to computer system . An output device may be external or internal to computer system . A storage device may be external or internal to computer system . A storage medium may be external or internal to computer system .

System bus couples subsystems of computer system to each other. Herein reference to a bus encompasses one or more digital signal lines serving a common function. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable system bus including any suitable bus structures such as one or more memory buses one or more peripheral buses one or more a local buses or a combination of the foregoing having any suitable bus architectures. Example bus architectures include but are not limited to Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus PCI Express bus PCI X and Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus.

Computer system includes one or more processors or central processing units CPUs . A processor may contain a cache for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. Processors are coupled to one or more storage devices including memory . Memory may include RAM and ROM . Data and instructions may transfer bi directionally between processors and RAM . Data and instructions may transfer uni directionally to processors from ROM . RAM and ROM may include any suitable computer readable storage media.

Computer system includes fixed storage coupled bi directionally to processors . Fixed storage may be coupled to processors via storage control unit . Fixed storage may provide additional data storage capacity and may include any suitable computer readable storage media. Fixed storage may store an operating system OS one or more executables EXECs one or more applications or programs data and the like. Fixed storage is typically a secondary storage medium such as a hard disk that is slower than primary storage. In appropriate cases the information stored by fixed storage may be incorporated as virtual memory into memory . In certain embodiments fixed storage may include network resources such as one or more storage area networks SAN or network attached storage NAS .

Processors may be coupled to a variety of interfaces such as for example graphics control video interface input interface output interface and storage interface which in turn may be respectively coupled to appropriate devices. Example input or output devices include but are not limited to video displays track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styli voice or handwriting recognizers biometrics readers or computer systems. Network interface may couple processors to another computer system or to network . Network interface may include wired wireless or any combination of wired and wireless components. Such components may include wired network cards wireless network cards radios antennas cables or any other appropriate components. With network interface processors may receive or send information from or to network in the course of performing steps of certain embodiments. Certain embodiments may execute solely on processors . Certain embodiments may execute on processors and on one or more remote processors operating together.

In a network environment where computer system is connected to network computer system may communicate with other devices connected to network . Computer system may communicate with network via network interface . For example computer system may receive information such as a request or a response from another device from network in the form of one or more incoming packets at network interface and memory may store the incoming packets for subsequent processing. Computer system may send information such as a request or a response to another device to network in the form of one or more outgoing packets from network interface which memory may store prior to being sent. Processors may access an incoming or outgoing packet in memory to process it according to particular needs.

Certain embodiments involve one or more computer storage products that include one or more tangible computer readable storage media that embody software for performing one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. In certain embodiments one or more portions of the media the software or both may be designed and manufactured specifically to perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more portions of the media the software or both may be generally available without design or manufacture specific to processes described or illustrated herein. Example computer readable storage media include but are not limited to CDs such as CD ROMs FPGAs floppy disks optical disks hard disks holographic storage devices ICs such as ASICs magnetic tape caches PLDs RAM devices ROM devices semiconductor memory devices and other suitable computer readable storage media. In certain embodiments software may be machine code which a compiler may generate or one or more files containing higher level code which a computer may execute using an interpreter.

As an example and not by way of limitation memory may include one or more tangible computer readable storage media embodying software and computer system may provide particular functionality described or illustrated herein as a result of processors executing the software. Memory may store and processors may execute the software. Memory may read the software from the computer readable storage media in mass storage device embodying the software or from one or more other sources via network interface . When executing the software processors may perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein which may include defining one or more data structures for storage in memory and modifying one or more of the data structures as directed by one or more portions the software according to particular needs.

In certain embodiments the described processing and memory elements such as processors and memory may be distributed across multiple devices such that the operations performed utilizing these elements may also be distributed across multiple devices. For example software operated utilizing these elements may be run across multiple computers that contain these processing and memory elements. Other variations aside from the stated example are contemplated involving the use of distributed computing.

In addition or as an alternative computer system may provide particular functionality described or illustrated herein as a result of logic hardwired or otherwise embodied in a circuit which may operate in place of or together with software to perform one or more steps of one or more processes described or illustrated herein. The present disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of hardware and software according to particular needs.

Although the present disclosure describes or illustrates particular operations as occurring in a particular order the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations occurring in any suitable order. Moreover the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations being repeated one or more times in any suitable order. Although the present disclosure describes or illustrates particular operations as occurring in sequence the present disclosure contemplates any suitable operations occurring at substantially the same time where appropriate. Any suitable operation or sequence of operations described or illustrated herein may be interrupted suspended or otherwise controlled by another process such as an operating system or kernel where appropriate. The acts can operate in an operating system environment or as stand alone routines occupying all or a substantial part of the system processing.

Although the present disclosure has been described with several embodiments diverse changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

