---

title: Holistic risk-based identity establishment for eligibility determinations in context of an application
abstract: A set of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) services can be utilized by applications executing in protected application environments external to a SOA environment. The SOA services can include an identity service, a eligibility service, and a security risk assessment service, each of which generates a percentage of risk when run. SOA services can be dependent on specific applications and application cases, each being a specific context of an application, so that results vary by application case. The SOA environment can store data, which is constantly being updated about people, which is used by the SOA services. In one embodiment, sensitive or confidential data can be maintained in the protected application environment and can be isolated from the SOA environment. Rules, criteria, factors, and the like used by the SOA services can be customized at an arbitrary level of complexity for specific applications and application cases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08375427&OS=08375427&RS=08375427
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08375427
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100421
---
The present invention relates to the field of security and more particularly to holistic risk based identity establishment for eligibility determinations in context of an application.

Different security measures exist to secure protected assets such as access to secured facilities and receiving protected services. These measures tend to be implemented in a uniform manner regardless of the specific context in which the measures are executed. Further these measures tend to be implemented within a protected enterprise environment. Conventional security measures also tend to be implemented on a per transaction basis where each transaction is handled in an isolated discrete fashion. That is the question being posed and answered by the security measures is whether or not that particular transaction is legitimate as a whole and risk is assessed if at all on this per transaction basis. Many industry standards exist to permit best practice security measures to be implemented within an organization and associated entities which can be used for security.

Frequently however these measures can result in limited security and or excessive security which fails to adapt to domain specific requirements. When limited security is implemented the risk of breaches can increase dramatically exposing sensitive information and services to unwanted personnel and or entities. When excessive security is implemented many problems can arise including over complexity numerous inefficiencies and costly upkeep. Further excessive security can have a deleterious effect of overcompensating resulting in problems of determining situational appropriate security measures. The security measure s shortcomings are particularly detrimental to identity verification processes.

Traditional approaches to identity verification utilize an industry accepted three factor identification model. These three identity factors are defined as Who you are What you know and What you own . Who you are often includes physical and behavioral features of a person such as fingerprints facial features and other biometric and physical features. What you know frequently includes information presumed to be known to the person to be identified such as passwords individual family data and other data or information. What you own traditionally refers to physical objects that are owned by or legitimately in the possession of a person such as a passport keys other tokens driver s license and other ID card.

This three factor identification model is constrained and hindered by several limitations. A first limitation is the physical world concept of individual identification as opposed to a more comprehensive information technology and data centric approach to identity management. Secondly the model does not provide for consideration of the operational context in which an identity or eligibility determination is to be performed. The model also fails to provide for risk assessment of other important influencing factors and or relevant data used in individual identification. Further the model does not effectively enable or support other key identity management capabilities such as confidentiality risk management non obvious relationship analysis and trust relationship management. Lastly the model favors a frequently card centric identity approach thus minimizing and overlooking potentially more effective factors that could be used in identifying individuals. These shortcomings are part of the per transaction security paradigm implemented by conventional systems which assesses security risks in an isolated per transaction manner as opposed to in a more holistic or context aware fashion.

An additional individual identification verification solution is required in order to mitigate the significant constraints and limitations of the three factor identity model and associated variations of that model. Further a new identification verification solution is needed in order to provide and address an organization s required business capabilities and needs e.g. effective resource utilization cost reduction increase revenue which current identification solutions only marginally consider.

The disclosure can be implemented in numerous configurations depending on implementation choices based upon the principles described herein. Various specific aspects are disclosed which are illustrative embodiments not to be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosure. One aspect of the disclosure is for a data driven method computer program product apparatus and system for risk based identity establishment for eligibility determinations in context of an executing application. In the aspect within a service oriented architecture SOA environment a set of SOA services comprising an identity service an eligibility service and a security risk assessment service can be provided. Each of the services can be performed independently based on a service specific set of data and criteria. For example the identity service can calculate a risk that a person is who they say they are. The eligibility service can calculate a risk that a person is qualified for a type of operation which can be a completely separate evaluation from whether or not a person is who they assert themselves to being. Finally the security risk assessment can determine a risk of permitting access to a particular datum item or protected function. Rules can be established that provide specific courses of programmatic actions which vary based on results of the identity risk the eligibility risk and the security assessment risks. Further different application specific cases can be associated with different criteria for assessing the identity risk eligibility risk and or security assessment risks as well as differing sets of rules for reacting to risk evaluations such as those provided by the identity eligibility and security risk assessment services.

In one embodiment each of the SOA services can be customized on an application specific basis for a set of different applications. At least a portion of the different applications can execute within protected enterprise environments external to the SOA. The SOA can lack exposure to specifics of application events intra application variables and application specific processes other than explicitly provided through parameters of the SOA services. During the customizing a number of data items can be defined within a data store of the SOA for each of the different applications. For instance a set of cases can be defined where each case represents an application specific context associated with a trigger able event. The application specific context can require a determination of user identity eligibility and security risk in context of the corresponding case. Each of these determinations can be distinct and based upon data sets specific to identity eligibility and security risk. Application specific and case specific values can be defined for a set of different identity artifacts where each identity artifact is a type of artifact for determining an identity of a user. Application specific and case specific values representing configurable eligibility criteria can be defined and stored. Application specific and case specific values representing factors such as primary and secondary factors for security risk computations can be stored. Application specific and case specific rules can be defined for calculating identity scores eligibility scores and security risks scores. Responsive to the applications executing in computing environments the SOA can instantiate at least one instance of the identity service the eligibility service and the security risk assessment service responsive to an occurrence of an application specific event associated with one of the defined cases. Execution of the instance of the identity service can determine which of the different identity artifacts exist and can compute an identity score based on existing identity artifacts the case specific values stored for the different identity artifacts and the stored case specific rules for calculating identity given the one case associated with the application specific event. Execution of the instance of the eligibility service can determine which of the different eligibility criteria have been satisfied and can compute an eligibility score based on the satisfied eligibility criteria and the stored case specific rules for calculating eligibility given the one case associated with the application specific event. Execution of the instance of the security risk assessment service can determining which of the factors are relevant and can compute a security risk score based on values of the relevant factors and the stored case specific rules for calculating security risks given the one case associated with the application specific event. The computed identity score the computed eligibility score and the computed security risk score can be returned to the one of the different applications that instantiated the corresponding SOA services. Application execution logic of each of the different applications that instantiate corresponding SOA services can branch along different pathways depending on the computed identity score the computed eligibility score and the computed security risk score.

One aspect of the disclosure is for a software method program system and artifact for providing risk based security assessments as SOA services. In the aspect an application can execute in a protected enterprise environment. Execution of the application can trigger an application event associated with a one of a set of previously defined application cases. The previously defined application cases can be organized in an n ary tree hierarchy. Each application case can represent an application specific context. Case specific rules and configured values can be inherited among nodes in the n ary tree hierarchy using object oriented programming inheritance principles. Responsive to the triggering of the application event SOA services executing in a SOA environment can be instantiated. The previously defined application case can be passed as a parameter for each of the SOA services. The SOA can lack exposure to specifics of application events intra application variables and application specific processes other than explicitly provided through parameters of the SOA services. In response to the triggering of the SOA services an identity score an eligibility score and a security risk score can be computed. Each score can be computed by the SOA services executing in the SOA environment. A user can be permitted or denied access a user selected portion of the executing application associated with the one application case based upon whether the computed identity score the computed eligibility score and the computed security risk score exceed previously established score thresholds or not. Each score can comprise a percentage denoting a risk associated with that score.

One aspect of the disclosure is for a software method program system and artifact for providing risk based security assessments as SOA services. In the aspect a Web service initiation message to execute an identity service from an application executing in a protected enterprise environment can be received. The message can specify an application case as a parameter of the identity service. Responsive to receiving the request for the identity service the identity service can execute within a SOA environment. Executing the identity service can include navigating a previously established n ary tree hierarchy of application cases to locate the application case using object oriented programming inheritance to determine previously configured application specific parameters for the application service and application case computing an identity score based on the determined parameters and returning the identity score to the application. A Web service initiation message to execute an eligibility can alternatively be referred to as a verification service for verifying eligibility service from the application executing in a protected enterprise environment can be received wherein the message specifies an application case as a parameter of the eligibility service. Responsive to receiving the request for the eligibility service the eligibility service can execute within the SOA environment. The executing of the eligibility service can include navigating a previously established n ary tree hierarchy of application cases to locate the application case using object oriented programming inheritance to determine previously configured application specific parameters for the application service and application case computing a verification score based on the determined parameters and returning the eligibility score to the application. A Web service initiation message to execute a risk assessment service from the application executing in the protected enterprise environment can be received. The message can specify an application case as a parameter of the security risk assessment service. Responsive to receiving the request for the security risk assessment service the security risk assessment service can execute within the SOA environment. The executing of the security risk assessment service can include navigating a previously established n ary tree hierarchy of application cases to locate the application case using object oriented programming inheritance to determine previously configured application specific parameters for the application and application case computing a security risk score based on the determined parameters and returning the security risk score to the application. The SOA can lack exposure to specifics of application events intra application variables and application specific processes occurring within the protected enterprise environment. Application execution logic of the application can branch along different pathways depending on the value of the identity score the eligibility score and the security risk score.

The disclosure presents a solution for a holistic risk based identity establishment for eligibility determinations in context of an application. In the solution a service oriented architecture SOA environment can permit efficient and cost effective individual identification verification and eligibility determination of potential persons. The environment can adapt to dynamic risks threat factors vulnerabilities and domain specific configurations. That is the environment can address application specific requirements for identity and eligibility processes. The environment can account for differing trust levels of data sources while maintaining auditing processes to be enforced e.g. traceability . The environment can enhance decision support to relevant personnel e.g. case workers and enable adjudicators to make consistent and transparent decisions. In one embodiment different risks can be individually computed for identity risk resulting from an identity determination based on identity specific data for an eligibility risk resulting from an eligibility determination based on eligibility specific data and for a security risk resulting from a security risk determination based on security risk specific data . Application and case specific programmatic rules can be established that are driven by computed values for the identity risk identity score eligibility risk eligibility score and security risk security score .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

User can interact with application utilizing interface . Interface can be one or more traditional user interfaces including but not limited to graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI multi modal interface and the like. In one instance interface can be an interface associated with an integrated circuit card e.g. smart card reader. Interface can be associated with computing device which can be communicatively linked to application server and service oriented architecture environment via network . Network can be one or more public and or local networks including but not limited to local area networks wide area networks e.g. metropolitan area networks and the like. In one embodiment network can be the Internet. In the embodiment secure communication protocols can be utilized to permit protected communication of user identity to an application server and or SOA environment . For instance privacy enhancing technologies PET can be employed within system to ensure security compliance.

As used herein identity can be one or more individual identification artifacts permitting identification of user . Identity can include but is not limited to driver s license passport birth certificate and the like. Identity can be communicated in real time or non real time which can be associated with one or more cases. That is user identity can be associated with a collection of data e.g. case able to identify a user and determine user request. In one embodiment case can store information regarding a user requesting enrollment in a service and or benefits program. For example case can be associated with an unemployment benefits program and can comprise of user biometrics e.g. age fingerprints user current employment status and duration of unemployment.

In one embodiment identity can be stored within data store which can be associated with application server . In the embodiment data store can comprise of identity evidence which can include but is not limited to individual identification information e.g. passport . It should be appreciated that data store can be locally and or remotely communicatively linked to application server . In one instance data store can be part of a traditional identity management system. For instance data store can be a government identity database capable of identifying citizens non citizens immigrants and the like. In one embodiment data store can be one or more data stores which can be communicatively linked. For instance data store can be a collection of enterprise and government data sources able to share identity evidence . Data store can also represent a distributed storage space comprising a plurality of different tangible storage mediums located geographically separated regions which are nevertheless connected via network .

Application server can be one or more computing devices permitting application to be executed. Application can include but is not limited to software middleware applications permitting user interaction with public and or local services benefits program. Services benefits programs can include but is not limited to government assisted healthcare programs pension programs health insurance programs and the like. For example application can be a Web site permitting submission of immigration requests from immigrants seeking admission into a country. Application can be associated with case engine which can determine user identity and eligibility utilizing limited risk assessment and security models. For instance case engine can be a software determination program based on a traditional three identity factor model.

Case can be associated with one or more portions of identity evidence . Evidence can include one or more artifacts which can include physical and or digital identities. Evidence can include but is not limited to biographic information physical digital documentation biometric information and the like. In one embodiment evidence can include handwritten documentation photographic copies digitally encoded identities and the like. For instance evidence can include a government issued national identification card. It should be noted the present disclosure can be implemented in environments utilizing traditional card centric approaches. That is the present disclosure can augment traditional identity management environments enabling extensible configurable risk based identity and eligibility business processes which can overcome traditional limitations.

When user interacts with application event can be triggered. In one embodiment event can be triggered responsive to a user enrollment in a services benefit program e.g. income supplementation associated with application . In another embodiment event can be conveyed to SOA environment via user initiated request. For example a user request to upgrade health insurance benefits can trigger event . In one instance event can be triggered by one or more transactions including but not limited to business to business transactions business to government transactions and the like.

It should be appreciated system can perform functionality described herein in real time and or near real time. System can include one or more computing devices application servers applications and environments . That is system can be a large scale implementation of a risk based identity and eligibility determination infrastructure. Risk assessment performed in the present disclosure can include qualitative and or quantitative risk analyses. For example risk can be represented in a scalar manner e.g. low medium and high risk enabling human agents to be easily aided in decision making processes. Distinct risk determinations can be conducted for an identity risk for an eligibility risk and for a security risks each being based on different data sets and criteria which can each be case specific. Application specific actions can be taken which are dependent on computed values for identity risks eligibility risks and or security risks.

SOA environment can be one or more software middleware components able to provide holistic risk based identity establishment for eligibility determinations in context of an application. Environment can comprise but is not limited to identity server eligibility server risk assessment server case data store historic data store and risk data store . In one embodiment environment can be an IBM WEBPSHERE middleware software. Servers can be communicatively linked to data stores . For instance environment can be a national information infrastructure e.g. government information technology infrastructure allowing communication between components . That is components cooperatively function although distributed throughout a geographic region.

In one embodiment environment can generate statements throughout an identity eligibility lifecycle . Statements can be utilized by environment components and or human agents to perform end to end risk based assessments for identity establishment and eligibility determinations with respect to case specific criteria and application specific requirements. For instance environment can be used simultaneously by multiple applications for determining identity and establishing eligibility for multiple service benefits programs.

It should be noted that environment can enable key identity management capabilities. In one instance environment can comply with traditional industry security policies and procedures for protecting identity managing risk and establishing non obvious relationships which current solutions lack. That is environment can be transparently compatible with current technologies and implementations while providing a holistic risk based approach. Further environment functionality can include but is not limited to adaptive capabilities predictive e.g. non valid prevention abilities and self optimization.

In one embodiment identity server eligibility server can act cooperatively with risk assessment server to generate a holistic risk based identity establishment. That is for each decision making process within the SOA environment risk assessment can be performed by utilizing risk assessment server . In one embodiment server can be one or more Web based services able to communicate in real time e.g. enterprise to enterprise callouts . For example environment can be an Enterprise Java Bean environment for performing risk assessment throughout an identity establishment and eligibility determination process.

Turning to identity server in a user identity and evidence can be communicated to identity server . It should be emphasized as shown by that an identity score and or identity risk part of risk assessment results can be computed independent of eligibility and or security risk based on identity specific data and criteria. Further in one embodiment a set of data can exist that is accessible by any of the servers which allows for efficient use and non siloed computations of the various risks. Server can be one or more computing devices able to perform individual information identity validation using a risk data model . Server can perform risk based identity verification utilizing information contained in data stores . Utilizing application specific case rules historic identity and risk data server can generate identity artifact .

Identity artifact can comprise of but is not limited to one or more individual identification data sets and one or more risk assessment results . In one embodiment individual identification data sets can be a comprehensive identity profile. In one instance risk assessment result can indicate the level of confidence associated with individual identification . For instance result can indicate the degree of accuracy of identification and associated risk factors. Risk assessment results can be generated by risk assessment server utilizing risk data model and data stores . Risk assessment results can include qualitative and or qualitative risk analysis of identity in association with a case application case rules historic data and risk data . That is utilizing multiple disparate data sources a holistic risk based identity verification can be performed.

In one instance identity artifact can be cached enabling environment resource conservation and rapid identity verification to be achieved. In the embodiment cached artifacts can be associated with timeout values enabling artifacts to be valid for a duration of time. For instance the artifact can be persisted throughout a transaction and deleted when the transaction is terminated.

In embodiment risk assessment results can be computed through defining levels of trust for data sources and evidence . In the embodiment evidence can be decomposed into individualized elements e.g. first name date of birth . Each of the individualized elements can be associated with a level of trust such as a trust score. The trust score for each of the individualized elements can be generated by risk assessment server utilizing risk data model and risk data . In one embodiment risk assessment results can be generated utilizing data sets from artifacts . That is employing individualized element trust scores an aggregate level of trust can be assigned to data sources . It should be appreciated that trust scores can directly correspond to risk and risk factors .

Artifacts associated with identifying a user can be one or more portions of identity evidence . Artifacts can include but is not limited to birth record visa and passport entities driver s license social security information and the like. For each artifact trust score data sets can be established. Trust score data sets can be generated indicating a level of trust for each individual element. For instance trust score data set associated with birth record can include a trust score for the user first name e.g. ninety last name e.g. ninety and date of birth e.g. ninety five . In one instance trust scores can be generated in real time permitting risk assessment to be adaptive to internal and external changes. For instance when a driver s license is determined to be non valid additional artifacts such as birth records can be analyzed to adjust trust scores appropriately.

In one embodiment data sets can be organized into a registry permitting a tracing of each element back to a data source. In the embodiment data sets can permit environment to be selectively and hierarchically auditable. For example a human agent can analyze each data source and associated artifacts for each component of identity artifact . That is data sets can permit risk assessment and traceability to be performed at every level of granularity in environment .

Server can include ranking and weighting functionality permitting highly customizable conflict resolution to be enacted. In one embodiment individualized elements e.g. first name of artifacts can be ranked in order of risk. For instance when multiple first names for user exist the first name occurring most frequently can be ranked as the element with the least risk. In another embodiment elements of artifacts with risk below a threshold value can be assigned more weight than those above the threshold value. That is based on case requirements one or more portions of artifacts can be prioritized appropriately.

Identity server can respond to varying levels of risk based on assessment of identity . In one embodiment server can notify authorities when non valid identity artifact is detected. In another embodiment server can flag one or more portions of evidence when the evidence is associated with high risk. For example when identity is suspected of duplication a notification can be associated with the case associated with user . Further identity server can compensate for risk associated with legally questionable activities. For example utilizing criteria legally questionable activities can be assigned varying levels of risk which can be assessed when a user is associated with legally questionable activities.

Turning to if a user identity is verified identity artifact event and case can be communicated to eligibility server . Server can utilize identity artifact to determine if domain specific requirements are met. That is based on the risk assessment result of identity an eligibility determination can be performed in an application specific manner. For instance utilizing information case server can determine if a user is eligible for a student visa. In one instance eligibility server can perform simultaneous eligibility determinations. In the instance server can establish eligibility of user for multiple service benefit programs concurrently.

In another embodiment server can be utilized to establish eligibility for multiple benefits for a single benefits program. In one instance server can enable real time eligibility determination in system . For example server can be a Web service able to present eligibility result within a Web page presented to user .

Server can communicate with data stores to generate eligibility result . In one embodiment server can utilize case rules historic eligibility risk data and risk data model to determine user eligibility. Case rules can include risk restrictions and or risk requirements for specific case types. For instance case rules can be utilized to specify minimum maximum levels of risk for each case type. Historic eligibility can be permit eligibility history of user to be factored into the eligibility result to present a holistic view of user eligibility.

Eligibility result can be one or more risk assessment analyses of a case and identity based on event . Result can include but is not limited to risk of granting eligibility risk of eligibility denial risk associated with eligibility for a service and or benefit and the like. In one embodiment result can include a hierarchical organization of risk for a case . That is result can present an adjudicator with a comprehensive view of case risks in the context of a specific application associated with the case . For example result can present graphs and or charts indicating identity confidence risk associated with identity eligibility risk and the like. In one embodiment historic eligibility can be automatically updated based on eligibility result . That is environment can utilize feedback loops to respond to changes in user eligibility.

Based on result appropriate actions can be executed by eligibility server . In one embodiment when a user is determined to be eligible server can register e.g. enroll the user into a suitable program e.g. student Visa versus business Visa based on assessed risk. In one configuration of the embodiment server automatically can select and or propose suitable programs based on eligibility result . That is utilizing risk assessment data eligibility decisions can be automated for each case type. In another embodiment eligibility decisions can be subject to human agent approval before a case decision is performed. In one embodiment when a user is determined to be ineligible risks associated with the case can be enumerated in eligibility result . For instance high risk criteria associated with a user can be flagged for adjudicator review.

In one instance server can perform notification functionality based on risk result . In one embodiment of the instance server can notify user and or an adjudicator of denial or approval of case . Notification can include but is not limited to digitally encoded notifications and or non digitally encoded notifications. For instance server can automatically notify a user of eligibility for a desired program via email. In one instance notifications can include message passing functionality able to automatically update external entities e.g. non valid watch list based on result .

In environment of risk assessment server can be one or more risk assessment components permitting risk determination and or risk analysis. Server can comprise but is not limited to risk data model e.g. risk data model . In one instance risk assessment server can include one or more risk engines including but not limited to biographic proofing engine document proofing engine de duplication engine biometric matching engine relationship resolution engine and the like.

In the embodiment the risk engines can use defined criteria to determine risk results. For instance a biographic proofing engine can assess risk based on correctness of the biographic details submitted by an applicant against a pre configured list of evidence data sources. That is server functionality is highly configurable for application specific requirements.

Risk data model can be utilized to generate and or analyze risk data . Data can include but is not limited to categories criteria statements evidence and artifacts . Data can be automatically and or manually generated based on environment implementations. In one embodiment server can heuristically determine risk category and or risk assessment criteria based on historic data . For instance risk associated with criteria can be automatically re evaluated in response to changes in service benefits requirements. In one embodiment server can be a Web enabled service permitting risk assessment to be performed by components associated with environment .

In embodiment risk assessment server can receive case event and or identity information and generate statement . In one embodiment risk server can include one or more risk engines permitting proofing of risk categories and risk assessment criteria . For instance server can be used to verify information e.g. biographic information based on submitted identity . Server can perform one or more functions including but not limited to proofing duplication detection matching conflict resolution and the like.

Risk categories can be associated with one or more case types within an application . Categories can include but are not limited to identity risk eligibility risk security risk and the like. In one instance categories can be arbitrarily complex. That is multiple levels of subcategories can be established for each category . Categories can be case type dependent allowing highly configurable identity and eligibility determinations to be achieved.

Risk assessment criteria can be associated with one or more risk categories determination of identity and eligibility. Criteria can include but is not limited to biometrics documentation biographic criteria criticality criteria duplication criteria and the like. Criteria can be associated with one or more primary factors and secondary factors enabling customizable risk assessments. In one embodiment criteria can have weighted values enabling criteria prioritization to be achieved. For example risk associated with biometric criteria can be treated with more importance than biographic criteria.

Statements can be one or more risk assessment determinations based on case event and identity . In one embodiment statement can be a human readable document permitting a hierarchical view of risk associated with a case . In another embodiment statement can be a machine readable artifact able to facilitate risk assessment in environment . For instance statement can be an Extensible Markup Language XML encoded document containing a risk assessment result for a case .

Evidence can be one or more individually identifiable information associated with a case . In one embodiment evidence can be information indicating available evidence at time of analysis. In the embodiment evidence can be utilized to determine available evidence for performing risk based analysis. In another embodiment evidence can be information associated with analyzed evidence . For example evidence can be associated with artifacts and data sets . That is evidence can be metadata which can be utilized in performing identity and eligibility determination without requiring frequent and or persistent access to evidence .

As used herein data stores can be one or more software hardware components capable of storing risk based information associated with a case within a service benefit environment. In one embodiment data stores can be one or more traditional database technologies e.g. database management system .

Data model can be employed in establishing a risk based data store such as a contextually appropriate risk based database for identity and eligibility determination. In one embodiment a data store conforming to data model can be established for each service benefit program associated with an application server . In an alternative embodiment a unified data store utilizing data model organizational structures can be created.

In phase risk categories e.g. categories can be established for an SOA environment. In one embodiment risk categories can be manually defined by a human agent. In another embodiment risk categories can be automatically and or heuristically determined. Trust scores for data sources can be defined at the individual element level e.g. embodiment . Risk assessment criteria e.g. criteria statements e.g. statements and evidence e.g. evidence can be defined which can include automatic and manual procedures. Scoring rules for quantifying risk assessment results can be defined. Scoring rules can be automatically and or manually established based on application requirements. Identity eligibility sub processes within process steps can be established.

In phase appropriate risk resources can be accessed during an enrollment process. In one embodiment risk resources can include one or more risk assessment components. In the embodiment components can include risk engines associated with environment e.g. risk assessment server . Risk resources can determine risk results using criteria defined in phase . Risk scoring rules can be applied to risk results to produce and aggregate scores within categories and subordinate categories. Risk scores and results can be presented to an adjudicator to enhance decision support process. For example adjudicators can be presented with a consolidated view which uses parent child relationship of risk categories and its association with risk assessment results. Identity eligibility credentials can be issued to approved users.

In phase specific risk factors can be assessed based on business risk rules. Risk assessment alerts can be triggered by new case events and risk factors which can be traceable. Trust scores can be created and continuously updated which can be assigned to data sources at multiple levels of granularity. Business intelligence and optimization techniques can be used to continuously analyze and provide feedback. For example business intelligence can be used to identify patterns and or behaviors of interest such as non valid identity presentments.

Sub processes occurring throughout lifecycle can be one or more dependent processes executing within lifecycle . Sub processes can be performed in serial and or parallel. Further it should be appreciated that sub processes can be iterative and self optimizing. That is a feedback loop can be established between any sub processes to enable automatic optimization to be achieved. Sub processes can include but are not limited to pre screening enrollment proofing eligibility check non valid identity checking assess security risk adjudication identity usage . One or more sub processes can be optionally omitted based on risk assessment results generated from previous sub processes . For instance if risk assessment results indicate potential non valid identities during pre screening sub process non valid identity checking can be executed.

In one embodiment risk assessment result can be presented to a case worker within a trusted identity management software application e.g. interface . Result can comprise of a risk outline and risk details . Risk outline can include a summary of Case A risk organized by risk categories. Risk details can include views of artifacts evidence and the like. In one instance risk details can be one or more visual representations e.g. graph charts images of risk associated with one or more portions of an artifact .

In the scenario decision can be a component of a feedback loop enabling risk assessment criteria to be adaptive to changes in the Visa program. That is decision can be used to heuristically determine optimum risk assessment criteria . In this way decision makers e.g. case worker in lifecycle are fully supported and decision making abilities are dynamically enhanced.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Scenario can support one or more case workers each having varying access permissions. That is based on case worker security clearance customized risk assessment results can be presented. As used herein computing device can include but is not limited to desktop computer laptop handheld computing device PDA mobile phone and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

