---

title: Device management using a RESTful interface
abstract: A Device Management system includes a device management server used by a network operator to manage one or more mobile devices operating in a wireless communications network. The device management server provides the mobile devices with Representational State Transfer (REST) commands to be executed by the mobile devices. The REST commands identify a location of one or more files on a network server that, when executed by the mobile devices, allows the devices to retrieve the files from the server, or directly from a data storage system accessible to the mobile device. The device management server may also provide the mobile devices with REST commands that allow the mobile devices to upload and store their files and information onto the network server at the specified location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438246&OS=08438246&RS=08438246
owner: Sony Mobile Communications AB
number: 08438246
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20100915
---
The present invention relates generally to device management operations and particularly to device management of wireless communications devices.

Device Management DM systems facilitate the remote management of mobile devices over an air interface. For example using a DM system a network operator can update the settings the firmware or the Operating System OS of a given managed device or install applications on the managed device. To perform such operations a network operator interacts with a DM server via a DM interface. With this interface the network operator can cause the DM server to dynamically generate a document e.g. an XML document that contains the needed update information for the managed device and then send that document to the managed device via an air interface. Upon receiving the information and data from the DM server the managed device installs the update.

Using DM systems network operators are able to manage a large number of devices. This frees end users from having to bring their devices such as cellular telephones for example to a centralized location or other service center to periodically refresh or update their software or to have software bugs corrected. However although conventional DM systems negate the need for users to make such trips conventional DM systems still require large amounts of overhead and utilize large amounts of resources when performing their operations.

The present invention utilizes Representational State Transfer REST on a device management system such an Open Mobile Alliance OMA Device Management DM system to perform device management control over one or more managed devices. In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of managing mobile devices in a wireless communication network the method comprising establishing a device management DM communication session with a mobile device generating at a device management server a Representational State Transfer REST command for execution at the mobile device the REST command comprising a data command that when executed by the mobile device allows the mobile device to communicate device data associated with the mobile device with a network server and sending the REST command from the device management server to the mobile device via a first communication channel associated with the DM session.

In one embodiment generating a REST command comprises generating a REST update command to be executed by the mobile device to upload and store the device data associated with the mobile device onto the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment generating a REST command comprises generating a REST retrieve command to be executed by the mobile device to retrieve the device data associated with the mobile device from the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment generating a REST command comprises generating the REST command to include a first Uniform Resource indicator URI that identifies a location on the network server having the device data associated with the mobile device.

In one embodiment generating the REST command comprises generating the REST command to further include a second URI identifying a location on the mobile device to store the device data retrieved from the first URI.

In one embodiment the method further comprises generating the first URI to include one or more parameters to be replaced by the mobile device prior to the mobile device executing the REST command.

In one embodiment the device data associated with the mobile device comprises configuration information for the mobile device.

In one embodiment establishing the DM communication session with the mobile device comprises establishing the session responsive to detecting a trigger condition associated with the mobile device.

The present invention also provides a device management server for managing mobile devices in a wireless communication network. In one embodiment the server comprises memory to store a Device Management DM agent and a controller. The controller may be configured to execute the DM agent to establish a DM communication session with a mobile device generate a Representational State Transfer REST command for execution at the mobile device the REST command comprising a data command that when executed by the mobile device allows the mobile device to communicate device data associated with the mobile device with a network server and send the REST command to the mobile device over a first communication channel via a first communication channel associated with the established DM session.

In one embodiment the generated REST command comprises a REST update command to be executed by the mobile device to upload and store the device data associated with the mobile device onto the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment the generated REST command comprises a REST retrieve command to be executed by the mobile device to retrieve the device data associated with the mobile device from the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to generate the REST command to include a first Uniform Resource Indicator URI that identifies a location on the network server where the device data associated with the mobile device is stored.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to generate the REST command to include a second URI that identifies a location on the mobile device to store the device data retrieved from the first URI.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to generate the first URI to include one or more parameters to be replaced by the mobile device prior to the mobile device executing the REST command.

In one embodiment the device associated with the mobile device comprises configuration information for the mobile device.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to establish the DM communication session with the mobile device responsive to detecting an error condition associated with the mobile device.

The present invention also provides a method for managing mobile devices in a wireless communication network. In one embodiment the method comprises establishing a Device Management DM communication session between a mobile device and a device management server receiving a Representational State Transfer REST command from the device management server via a first communication channel associated with the DM communication session and executing the REST command at the mobile device to communicate device data associated with the mobile device with a network server.

In one embodiment receiving and executing the REST command comprises receiving at the mobile device a REST update command over the first communication channel and executing the REST update command at the mobile device to upload and store the device data to the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment receiving and executing the REST command comprises receiving at the mobile device a REST retrieve command over the first communication channel and executing the REST retrieve command at the mobile device to retrieve the device data from the network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment the REST command received from the device management server comprises a first Uniform Resource indicator URI that identifies a location for the device data on the network server.

In one embodiment the REST command received from the device management server further comprises a second URI that identifies a location on the mobile device to store the device data retrieved from the first URI.

In one embodiment the method further comprises replacing one or more parameters in the first URI at the mobile device with values prior to executing the REST update command.

In one embodiment the device data associated with the mobile device comprises configuration information for the mobile device.

In one embodiment establishing the DM communication session comprises initiating communications with the data management server to establish the DM communication session.

The present invention also provides a mobile device in a wireless communications network. In one embodiment the mobile device comprises a transceiver configured to establish a Device Management DM session with a device management server and a controller. The controller is configured to receive a Representational State Transfer REST command from the device management server via a first communication channel associated with the DM session and execute the REST command to communicate device data associated with the mobile device with a network server over a second communication channel.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to receive a REST update command from the device management server over the first communication channel and execute the REST update command to upload and store the device data associated with the mobile device over the second communication channel to the network server.

In one embodiment the controller is configured to receive a REST retrieve command from the device management server over the first communication channel and execute the REST retrieve command to retrieve the device data associated with the mobile device over the second communication channel from the network server.

In one embodiment the received REST command comprises a first Uniform Resource indicator URI that identifies a location for the device data on the network server.

In one embodiment the received REST command further comprises a second URI that identifies a location for the device data on the mobile device.

In one embodiment the controller is further configured to replace one or more parameters in the first URI with values prior to executing the REST command.

In one embodiment the device data associated with the mobile device comprises configuration information for the mobile device.

In one embodiment the controller is further configured to initiate establishing the DM communication session.

The present invention utilizes Representational State Transfer REST on a device management system such an Open Mobile Alliance OMA Device Management DM system to perform device management control over one or more managed devices. As is known in the art REST is used for designing networked applications. Particularly rather than using complex mechanisms such as CORBA RPC and SOAP to connect between machines REST uses simple HTTP to make calls between machines.

According to the present invention a device management server establishes a DM communication session to communicate information and data with a managed device. Rather than simply provide the managed device with the information and data as is conventional the device management server of the present invention generates REST commands and sends them to the managed device. Upon receipt of the REST commands the managed device executes the commands to store and or retrieve static and or dynamic data and information associated with the managed device to from a network server.

In one embodiment the device management server generates a REST update command e.g. a HTTP HTTPS PUT or POST command for the managed device and sends the command to the managed device. The managed device then executes the received REST update command to upload the device data onto the network server for storage. The device data uploaded to the server may comprise for example static information such as configuration information or settings for the mobile device. When the device management server detects an error condition at the managed device such as a configuration error the device management server generates and sends a REST retrieve command e.g. a HTTP HTTPS GET command to the mobile device. Upon receiving the command the managed device executes the REST retrieve command to retrieve the stored settings from the network server. The managed device can then update its own copy of the settings with those retrieved from the network server.

Expanding a DM system to utilize RESTful commands provides benefits that conventional DM systems are not able to provide. Particularly the prior art DM systems typically provide device data to a managed device whenever it detects for example that the managed device needs such information. However this requires quite a bit of overhead and resources. The present invention deviates from such conventional systems in that it provides the managed devices with a smaller more manageable REST command e.g. HTTP HTTPS PUT GET etc. to enable the managed devices to interact directly with the network server that stores the device data. Thus by integrating REST commands into a DM system network operators are able to perform DM control functions using less overhead and resources than are used by conventional DM systems.

Turning now to the figures is a block diagram illustrating some of the components of a communications system configured to function according to one embodiment of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the components and their configuration shown in are for illustrative purposes only and that it is possible to use the present invention with systems having other components and network configurations.

System comprises a managed device which in is illustrated as a mobile device and a communications network . The network comprises one or more Base Stations BS a Gateway GW server one or more network servers connected to a data storage DS and a Device Management DM server . It should be noted here that while the servers the DS and the DM server are illustrated as separate interconnected nodes this is for illustrative purposes only. These nodes may be separate from each other each performing their own functions and communicatively interconnected with each other. However the present invention does not require this architecture. In at least one embodiment the server s the DS and the DM server may comprise a single node in network . In such cases these nodes could be referred to collectively as DM server or DM server backend for example.

The one or more Base Stations BS connect to corresponding antennas which may be fixed site antenna towers for example. As is known in the art each BS provides radio coverage for the mobile devices over a limited area referred to as a cell. BS may operate according to any known standard to allow a user of mobile device to communicate voice and or data to one or more remote parties. Such standards include but are not limited to the standards known generally as the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

The BS also connects to a Gateway GW server . The GW server may be used for device management functions and is typically disposed between the BS the DM server and the servers . The GW server supports the network communications and the device management communications between the mobile device and the DM server as well as the communications between the mobile device and the one or more servers and or the DS . Additionally in some embodiments the GW server provides other services as well. For example the GW server could provide authentication services to ensure that mobile device is an authorized device. The GW server may also allocate IP addresses to the mobile devices to support procedures that update software applications firmware and or settings on mobile device . An example of such an update operation in the context of the present invention is when the DM server pushes a command to the mobile device that causes the device to upgrade the software firmware and or settings using data stored on server and or DS .

The server may be connected to DS . In one embodiment of the present invention the DS stores static information and data associated with the mobile devices . The information and data may comprise for example local device data such as one or more configuration files software upgrades or bug fixes to be sent to the mobile devices . The DS comprises a computer readable medium such as a database or a file system for example. In embodiments where DS is a database the servers could access DS for the mobile devices to store and retrieve the local device data. In embodiments where DS is a file system no such interaction may be required. Instead the mobile devices could access DS directly to read and write the local device data.

In conventional device management systems the DM server would have allocated it s own resources and overhead in order to retrieve the device data from DS and send them to the mobile devices . With the present invention however this responsibility is removed from the DM server . Instead the DM server provides the mobile devices with a REST command e.g. a GET or PUT command . The mobile devices upon receipt execute the command to store and or retrieve the device data to from DS via the servers or to store and or retrieve device data directly to from DS .

As stated above DS is illustrated as a node that is separate from the servers and the DM server . However this is not a requirement of the present invention. The DS is intended to represent all memory that is accessible to the servers and or the DM server . Although this includes databases file systems and other such storage systems it is not limited as such. In one embodiment DS represents a specially marked portion of internal memory such as cache on the server or DM server . Storing the information associated with the mobile devices in the cache allows a server to quickly retrieve that data upon receiving a subsequent retrieval command from an appropriate mobile device .

The DM server is configured to function as the primary administration and management service for all mobile devices . The DM server communicates with existing infrastructure servers such as GW server and servers . Alternatively as stated previously the DM server may comprise the functions performed by the server and or DS . The DM server when required generates the commands necessary to obtain and retrieve certain information and data from DS and provides those commands to the mobile devices for execution. These commands which are REST commands are provided to the mobile device over a first communication channel utilizing HTTP HTTPS.

The mobile device represents a managed device in the network and may be for example a cellular telephone such as a SMARTPHONE or some other portable communication device. Some exemplary devices include but are not limited to satellite phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and computing devices such as laptop and notebook computers. According to the present invention the mobile device receives REST commands from the DM server via the first communication channel and executes those commands to facilitate device management operations over a second communication channel.

The user interface provides a user with the necessary elements and controls to interact with the mobile device . Typically such elements and controls include but are not limited to displays such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD and or touch sensitive display a microphone a speaker and a keypad. The function of each of these user interface components is well known in the art and not germane to the present invention. Thus they are not described in detail here.

The transceiver allows the mobile device to communicate with one or more remote parties via network . Additionally transceiver communicates data and information with the DM server . The data and information may comprise REST commands sent by the DM server to be executed by the mobile device or may comprise device data retrieved as a result of the mobile device executing the REST commands. In this embodiment transceiver comprises a fully functional cellular radio transceiver that can operate according to any known standard including the standards known generally as the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

Memory comprises a computer readable medium that may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and data required for operation are stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory which may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with the controller . Memory may store one or more applications such as DM client agent as well as local device data such as the device configuration data for example.

Controller generally controls the overall operation of the mobile device according to programs and instructions stored in memory . The controller which may be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof may comprise a single microprocessor or multiple microprocessors as needed or desired. The microprocessors may be general purpose microprocessors digital signal processors or other special purpose processors.

In one embodiment of the present invention controller executes the DM client agent to perform device management operations. Particularly mobile device executes the DM client agent to establish a DM communications session with a corresponding DM server agent executing on DM server . Once established the mobile device receives REST commands from the DM server over a first communication channel. Upon receipt the mobile device executes the command over a second communication channel to perform different device management operations. For example the mobile device may execute the received REST command to store device data such as configuration data to a server or DS . Alternatively the mobile device may execute the received REST command to retrieve information and or device data associated with the mobile device . Thus the DM server provides the mobile device with the commands and information it needs to perform device management operations on its own rather than the DM server performing the device management operations as is conventional thereby saving network resources.

The communication interfaces connect the DM server to the server s interface as well as to the GW server interface . The communication interfaces may comprise for example Ethernet ports that connect the DM server to the servers . The controller controls the DM server to send and receive data and information over these ports as needed. In embodiments where the DM server and servers comprise a single node the communication interface need not comprise a hardware port but instead may comprise a software construct such as a socket for example intended to communicatively connect two or more processes.

Memory comprises a computer readable medium that may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and data required for operation are stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory which may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with the controller . According to the present invention the memory may store one or more applications such as DM server agent application for execution by the controller . The DM server uses the DM server agent to establish a DM communication session with the DM client agent executing on mobile device . Under control of the controller the DM server agent generates REST commands for the mobile device and sends them to the mobile device via the established DM session for execution.

Controller generally controls the overall operation of DM server according to programs and instructions stored in memory . The controller which may be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof may comprise a single microprocessor or multiple microprocessors as needed or desired. The microprocessors may be general purpose microprocessors digital signal processors or other special purpose processors.

As previously stated device management is the process by which a network operator for example manages different devices on the network. Device management operations include but are not limited to the setting of initial local device data e.g. configuration information for a managed device the subsequent updating of that local device data on the managed device as well as the retrieval of the local device data from a managed device and storage on a network server. Additionally Device management operations may also include the monitoring and processing of events and or alarm conditions that are generated by the managed devices. With respect to this latter operation the device management operations may be invoked responsive to detecting such conditions. For example detecting a certain error condition or alarm for a managed device at a DM device management server may trigger the server to send the managed device updated firmware or updated configuration data to fix the detected condition.

Conventionally a device management server is responsible for performing these operations for the managed mobile devices. However the present invention extends this functionality using REST commands to allow the managed device to perform at least some of the device management functions itself. Particularly in one embodiment the DM client agent and the DM server agent establish a DM communication session between them. Either the DM client agent or the DM server agent may initiate the session. Once established the DM server agent sends a generated REST command to the mobile device for performing a device management function. Upon receipt the DM client agent executes the received command on the mobile device to perform the management function.

The DM agents may operate according to any known standard to initiate and manage the DM session. However in one embodiment the DM client agent and the DM server agent operate in compliance with standards authored by the Open Mobile Alliance OMA . One exemplary standard is entitled Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device Management i.e. OMA ERELD DM V121 20080617 A is authored and maintained by the OMA. The approved version of that document version 1.2.1 was released on Jun. 17 2008. This Enabler Release document which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference provides a list of references in section 5 that identifies the approved specification documents for various areas of OMA Device Management according to the version 1.2.1. Each of those documents are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Of course the DM agents of the present invention are not limited to this particular version of the OMA DM standard but rather may be configured to operate according to later versions of the OMA DM standard that have yet to be released.

The REST commands generated according to the present invention may include a number of parameters. Further the number and type of those parameters may differ based on the particular REST command being generated. For example REST commands typically include one or two Uniform Resource Indicators URIs . A first URI i.e. URI1 may be used to identify a location on the DM server or server or DS . A second URI i.e. URI2 may be used to identify a location on the local mobile device . Using these URIs as well as some other parameters the DM server is able to provide the mobile device with the commands and the parameters it needs to perform the device management functions.

For example to allow a mobile device to retrieve device data e.g. configuration settings from server the DM server might in one embodiment generate and send the following REST command to the mobile device for execution having the following format.

In addition to the URIs the DM server may also generate other parameters to provide to the mobile device with the REST commands. However rather than provide the mobile device with the actual values for the parameters the DM server would provide the mobile device with labels that function as place holders for the values. Upon receipt the mobile device would simply replace the place holder parameter label with the actual value of the parameter before executing the command. Such parameters are generated into the URI and include but are not limited to the commands listed in the following table.

Other parameters that may be included in the REST commands sent to the mobile device could specify to the mobile device an amount of device data to retrieve from or store to the server . Specifically the device data is stored on the server DS in a hierarchical tree structure. One parameter in particular i.e. the parameter could specify to the mobile device how many levels deep into the tree structure at that the mobile device should retrieve and send to the server DS . An exemplary REST command might be formatted as follows.

The REST update command may be for example an HTTP PUT command and may include different parameters one or more of which must be replaced by the mobile device before it executes the command. For example the DM server may generate the following REST command.

Upon receiving the REST update command line the mobile device parses the command to identify the variables it must replace and replaces them with actual values box . In this case the mobile device replaces the parameter IMEI with its actual value which may be stored in local memory for example. The mobile device may also receive and replace the parameters for mobile device type and mobile ID. The mobile device then executes the command box i.e. HTTP HTTPS PUT to send the local device data identified by to the server location identified by line . Upon receipt line the server that was identified by will store the received local device data in memory. In some cases the server may provide the sending mobile device with an acknowledgement or a negative acknowledgement indicating whether the server was able to store the data successfully lines .

Before the mobile device executes the REST GET command the mobile device will replace the MCC and MNC parameters with actual values box . The mobile device then executes the REST GET command box e.g. HTTP HTTPS GET to retrieve the local device data identified by lines . The server that was identified by will obtain the received local device data from memory e.g. from cache or from DS and send it to the mobile device lines . Upon receipt of the device data the mobile device can update its own device data at location .

The present invention may of course be carried out in other ways than those specifically set forth herein without departing from essential characteristics of the invention. The present embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive and all changes coming within the meaning and equivalency range of the appended claims are intended to be embraced therein.

