---

title: Systems and methods for controlled transmittance in a telecommunication system
abstract: Systems and methods for authenticating digital assets in relation to a telecommunications network. In various cases, the systems include a network interface device associated with a customer premises. The network interface device includes a local authentication authority operable to authenticate one or more digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. In some cases, a global authentication authority can authenticate the network interface device, and implicitly authenticate the one or more digital assets. Many other cases and/or embodiments are disclosed herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08261321&OS=08261321&RS=08261321
owner: Qwest Communications International Inc.
number: 08261321
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
The present invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 733 089 entitled Systems and Methods for Controlled Transmittance In A Telecommunication System filed Apr. 9 2007 and assigned to an entity common herewith which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 632 602 entitled Systems And Methods For Controlled Transmittance In A Telecommunication System filed Aug. 1 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 361 and assigned to an entity common herewith which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 996 entitled Systems And Methods For Distributing Content Objects In A Telecommunication System filed Jun. 2 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 376 386 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 364 entitled Packet Network Interface Device And Systems And Methods For Its Use filed Jan. 31 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 180 988 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. Patent Application No. 10 356 688 entitled Systems Methods And Apparatus For Providing A Plurality Of Telecommunication Services filed Jan. 31 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 338 entitled Configurable Network Interface Device And Systems And Methods For Its Use filed Jan. 31 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 367 596 entitled Systems And Methods For Delivering A Data Stream To A Video Appliance filed Feb. 14 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 367 597 entitled Systems And Methods For Providing Application Services filed Feb. 14 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 433 465 and assigned to an entity common herewith. The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 632 661 entitled Systems And Methods For Implementing A Content Object Access Point filed Aug. 1 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith. The entirety of each of the aforementioned applications is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present invention is related to telecommunication systems. In particular the present invention is related to access controls in a telecommunication system.

Currently users are authenticated in a telecommunications system through accessing a central authority and providing a user name and password. Such an approach can involve congestion about the central authority. In some cases such congestion is unnecessary as the authentication is to be used only in conjunction with relatively localized activities.

Thus for at least the aforementioned reasons there exist a need in the art for advanced systems and methods for implementing access controls in relation to a telecommunication network.

The present invention is related to telecommunication systems. In particular the present invention provides systems and methods for allowing access control to digital assets capable of transfer via a telecommunications system or other communication system.

Among other things the present invention provides an authentication system capable of providing authentication services for a plurality of digital assets associated with a customer premises. Such digital assets can include but are not limited to customer premises equipment and content objects. Some examples of customer premises equipment include but are not limited to personal computers video recorders dish antennas and the like. Content objects can include but are not limited to voicemail email video audio movies music games email live broadcasts user preferences and the like. In different aspects of the present invention access to digital assets can be provided within a customer premises between customer premises and or between a customer premises and a globally accessible site.

Particular embodiments of the present invention provide an implicit authentication system. Such an implicit authentication system includes a network interface device NID that connects a global communication network to a local communication network. A local authentication authority associated with the NID authenticates one or more customer premises equipment and a global authentication authority authenticates the NID and by implication the customer premises equipment associated with the NID. Thus the NID is allowed to vouch for the authenticity of the customer premises equipment eliminating substantial authentication traffic to the global authentication authority.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide methods for authenticating digital assets. Such methods can provide for comparing a user against accessed digital assets to assure compatibility and or availability. Further such methods can provide for payment in exchange for distribution of particular digital assets to particular users. Yet further such methods can provide for controlled remote access to customer premises equipment. Additionally the methods may rely on implicit authentication as described above.

Some embodiments provide systems for authorizing access to digital assets. Such systems include a global authentication authority that is communicably coupled to a global communication network and a NID associated with a customer premises that is communicably coupled to the global communication network and to a local communication network. A local authentication authority is associated with the NID and is operable to authenticate various digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. In some cases the global authentication authority is operable to authenticate the NID and to implicitly authenticate at least one of the plurality of digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. In some cases authenticating the digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises involves accessing a digital security device associated with particular digital assets. Such security devices can be a digital certificate or a digital pass. Such authentication can be accomplished using digital security device associated with a digital asset. The local authentication authority and the global authentication authority can issue and store digital security devices and the network interface device can register and retrieve digital security devices with the local and global authentication authorities. A digital pass allows communication access to digital assets while a digital certificate allows authorization of content object distribution and or distribution of content objects obtained from customer premises equipment.

In particular cases authenticating the NID includes registering the digital security devices at the global authentication authority. The NID is operable to access the digital security devices and to register the digital security devices with the global authentication authority and or the local authentication authority. In various cases the local communication network extends within the customer premises while the global communication network extends external to the customer premises.

Other embodiments of the present invention provide systems for authorizing access to digital assets that include two or more digital asset sources. At least one of the digital asset sources is communicably coupled to a number of digital assets that are maintained in relation to a customer premises and to a communication network. Another digital asset source is operable to request a digital asset from the aforementioned digital asset source and is also communicably coupled to another communication network. Each of the digital asset sources is associated with respective authentication authorities. In particular cases both digital asset sources are associated with respective customer premises while in other cases at least one of the digital asset sources is not associated with a customer premises.

Yet other embodiments of the present invention provide methods for authorizing access to digital assets. Such methods include receiving access information from a NID based at least in part on the access information implicitly authenticating a digital asset associated with the network interface device. Such access information can include but is not limited to a security device received from either a global authentication authority or local authentication authority. In some cases the NID is associated with a customer premises and authenticating the NID includes receiving at least one digital security device associated with a digital asset maintained in relation to the customer premises.

Authenticating the NID can further include registering the various digital security devices associated with respective digital assets. In some cases the digital asset is a content object while in other cases the digital asset is a customer premises equipment. Content objects can include but are not limited to a recorded audio a live audio a live video a recorded video an email a live chat and a game. Customer premises equipment can include but is not limited to a video recorder an audio recorder a storage device a personal computer a PDA a mobile telephone a dish antenna a television a refrigerator and a security equipment. Security equipment can include gate locks door locks cameras and or the like.

This summary provides only a general outline of some embodiments according to the present invention. Many other objects features advantages and other embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following detailed description the appended claims and the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is related to telecommunication systems. In particular the present invention provides systems and methods for allowing access control to digital assets capable of transfer and or providing transfer via a telecommunications system or other communication system.

Among other things the present invention provides an authentication system capable of providing authentication services for a plurality of digital assets associated with a customer premises. As used herein references to customer premises are intended to refer to physical structures under the control of a customer through ownership leasehold or any other property right. The term is not intended to encompass open real property external to the physical structures even if such open real property is also under the control of the customer. Such a definition reflects differences in accessibility to the physical structures and surrounding open real property. Access to the physical structures generally requires the presence of the customer or a representative of the customer while access to the surrounding open real property may be obtained by permission from customer through an easement or by other means that does not require the physical presence of the customer. Thus for example in the case of a residential customer the customer premises may correspond to the customer s home but does not include the yard surrounding the home. Access to the yard may be obtained even when the customer is not home such as when the customer is at work is shopping or is otherwise unavailable to be physically present.

Also as used herein authentication services can be any communication process whereby a particular entity is determined to be the entity that it claims to be and or is determined to have the authority it claims to have. For example if a laptop computer claims to be device XYZ the authentication service would determine and confirm that the laptop in question is indeed device XYZ and not another device. As another example if user ABC claims to have access to device XYZ the authentication service would determine and confirm that ABC does indeed have authority to access device XYZ. In some cases the terms validation and security may herein be used interchangeably with authentication.

Particular embodiments of the present invention provide an implicit authentication system. Such an implicit authentication system includes a network interface device NID that connects a global communication network to a local communication network. A local authentication authority associated with the NID authenticates one or more customer premises equipment and a global authentication authority authenticates the NID and by implication the customer premises equipment associated with the NID. Thus the NID is allowed to vouch for the authenticity of the customer premises equipment eliminating substantial authentication traffic to the global authentication authority.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide methods for authenticating digital assets. Such methods can provide for comparing a user against accessed digital assets to assure compatibility and or availability. Further such methods can provide for payment in exchange for distribution of particular digital assets to particular users. Yet further such methods can provide for controlled remote access to customer premises equipment. Additionally the methods may rely on implicit authentication as described above.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide methods for processing digital certificates at a customer premises and addressing the content objects to specific customer premises equipment or to a local communication network maintained within the home. Thus methods in accordance with the present invention can be used for content fulfillment purposes to make secure payments and or the like. In some cases the digital certificates will be registered with a global certificate authority maintained by a content provider or implemented as a third party verification service. These digital certificates can then be validated against a certificate authority. In some cases a hierarchical certificate authority is implemented including local global and or provider certificate authorities.

In some cases digital certificates are issued for customer premises equipment and for content objects. As used herein a content object is broadly defined to include any group of information that can be accessed via a communication network. Thus for example a content object can be but is not limited to a pre recorded digital video segment a live digital video segment a pre recorded digital audio segment a live digital audio segment a data file a voice mail message a digital picture and or the like. Customer premises equipment and CPE arc intended to refer to any device that creates sends receives or otherwise utilizes content objects. Content objects and customer premises equipment are referred to herein collectively as digital assets.

In particular cases the local certificate authority is implemented in association with a NID. This can include implementing the local certificate authority as part of the NID or communicably coupled to the NID via a local communication network extending within the customer premises. By providing this functionality to a NID the authentication services can be accessed across the local communication network and where it is not required authentication services do not have to include accessing components associated with networks extending outside of the customer premises. Further such an approach allows the NID to perform authentication services in relation to digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. Thus when occasion requires authentication on a global communication network the NID can be authenticated by a global authentication authority and digital assets previously authenticated by the NID can be implicitly authenticated by the global communication authentication authority. This implicit authentication can include acceptance of the authenticity of the digital assets as affirmed by the NID.

Such authentication can include receiving digital certificates associated with the NID and various digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. These digital certificates can then be registered with an appropriate authentication authority thus allowing for communications at a level designated by the digital certificates to occur. When new digital assets are installed the NID may automatically update the digital certificates with the various authentication authorities or await the need to perform such authentication.

In particular cases a global authentication authority provides a chip or module that can be installed in the NID. This chip or module includes an encoded version of the digital certificate for the NID and is created such that when the digital certificate is received from the NID there is a high degree of surety that the NID identified in the digital certificate is authentic. Further this chip or module is capable of identifying the various digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises obtaining digital certificates for each of them from a digital certificate authority and to associate the identity with the respective digital certificates.

In other cases the digital certificates are created locally by a local certificate authority and identify the customer premises where the digital certificate is being created. In such cases the NID can assure that only content objects with digital certificates matching the customer premises are served onto the global communication network. Alternatively or in addition content objects that were received from the global communication network can be queried to determine if they include redistribution rights. Where redistribution rights exist and the content object has not been modified the content object can also be served onto the global communication network. This helps to assure that content objects are only used at the destination that paid for them if that represents the terms under which the content object was obtained. Further it helps to assure that content objects served from a customer premises include the correct indication of the customer premises thus lowering the incidence of users introducing malicious content onto the global communication network.

Further content providers will also be able to register their content objects with a global certificate authority. This can include the provider placing a digital certificate on any content objects distributed by the provider. These digital certificates remain in tact as long as the content object is not in any way modified or otherwise corrupted. Thus when a content object is requested by a user the authenticity of the content object can be tested. This helps to alleviate the occurrence of malicious code or viruses distributed with content.

In some cases home users have a digital certificate that is assigned to them and via this digital certificate they can request services and or content objects from providers. Using the digital certificate associated with the user the provider can validate the requests. Where a content object is requested the content object can come wrapped with a digital certificate indicating the provider and the requestor. Thus access to the provide content object can be limited to the user. Any modification of the digital certificate and or the content object will damage the content object. As another example the user s digital certificate may be associated with content objects produced at the customer premises including for example emails voicemails live camera feeds and the like. Where this association occurs access to the content objects may be limited to the user identified in the digital certificate. In some cases the user s digital certificate is replaced with that of the NID. In such cases a content object received from a provider may be limited in use by customer premises equipment registered with the NID at the time the content object was requested. It should be noted that not all digital assets will include digital certificates and content objects may or may not be encrypted whether a digital certificate is used or not. In some cases the digital certificate is simply used as a digital pass to indicate a requestor.

From the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a myriad of advantages obtainable through using systems and methods in accordance with the present invention. For example various systems and methods allow for authenticating users and or services that are trying to make changes to the configuration of the NID authenticating users and or services that are trying to deliver content to the customer premises and authenticating users and or services that are trying to access digital assets maintained in relation to the customer premises. Other examples of advantages include providing validation for data configuration request from the customer premises validation of data configuration sent to the customer premises and the like.

Digital certificates can include information useful to uniquely identify a customer premises equipment. Thus digital certificates may employ a Media Access Control identification MAC ID . In some cases the MAC ID is augmented with a serial number of the customer premises equipment or some other number to render the identification unique. Alternatively a number can be assigned by the global certificate authority or local certificate authority that is then incorporated with the MAC ID.

A remotely accessible security system provides one example illustrative of various systems and methods in accordance with the present invention. In the example a customer premises is equipped with a security camera and an electronically controlled lock. In such an application only certain privileged users can obtain authorization to access images from the camera and or actuate the electronically controlled lock. Digital certificates can be used to authenticate the lock and camera and to authorize access to the lock and camera. Other examples that illustrate various systems and methods of the present invention include distribution of content across a communication network where digital certificates are used to authenticate the content and or the equipment producing the content and digital passes can be used to authorize access to the content. In some cases content digital certificates and or digital passes can be encrypted. Encryption can be used protect against hackers who try to steal the digital certificate in order to access digital assets without permission. Such protection can be particularly useful when digital assets are private or sensitive in nature.

Turning to a system in accordance with some embodiments of the present intention is illustrated. In system a global communication network communicably couples a content provider and one or more NIDs associated with respective customer premises . Global communication network can be any communication network capable of transferring information to from a site external to customer premises to from customer premises . In some cases global communication network is the Internet. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a number of other network types that can be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Content provider can be any source of content objects that are distributable via global communication network . Thus for example content provider can be a telecommunication service provider or a cable television provider. Based on this one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize other content providers.

Content provider is associated with a provider authentication authority a provider certificate authority and a database where content objects are maintained. Provider certificate authority can be responsible for registering digital certificates from approved NIDs users and or digital assets. Further provider certificate authority can be responsible for creating and or assigning digital certificates to content objects maintained on database . In addition provider certificate authority can be responsible for requesting a digital certificate from a global certificate authority as further described below. Provider authentication authority can be responsible for receiving digital certificates and approving the NID user and or digital asset associated with the digital certificate. Where the digital certificate is approved the entity associated with the digital certificate is capable of some level of access to content objects maintained on database or to provide content objects to database .

Global certificate authority and a global authentication authority are also communicably coupled to global communication network . Global certificate authority is a third party digital certificate provider responsible for creating and or assigning digital certificates to digital assets upon request of a local certificate authority or provider certificate authority . Global authentication authority is a third party authentication service responsible for receiving digital certificates and approving the NID user and or digital asset associated with the digital certificates.

NIDs include local authentication authorities responsible for receiving digital certificates and approving the NID user and or digital asset associated with the digital certificates. In particular local authentication authority is capable of identifying digital assets maintained in relation to customer premises and assuring that the digital assets arc what they claim to be. Further local authentication authority can register digital certificates associated with the digital assets and can represent the digital assets to other entities on global communication network as having been verified. This will allow for implicit authentication reducing the amount of authentication being done globally. In addition where the NID is at least in part controlled by a provider the security of information passed on global communication network can be increased.

As illustrated NIDs are communicably coupled to respective local communication networks that extend through the respective customer premises . Local communication networks can be any type of communication networks or combination of communication networks capable of passing content objects within customer premises . Various CPE can be communicably coupled to communication networks . Further a storage device that includes one or more content objects can also be communicably coupled to local communication networks . Such storage devices may include hard disk drives associated with a microprocessor for accessing information from the hard disk drive. Each of the aforementioned authentication authorities and certificate providers can be implemented on microprocessor based devices such as for example personal computers servers mainframes imbedded modules and or the like.

As will be further appreciated from the discussion below using the aforementioned system registration can be provided for various digital assets. This registration can include registering a NID with either the content provider or with the network itself. Such registration can allow network based services to be accessed throughout the home and network based on digital certificates. Thus for example the network internal to the home can rely on locally registered CPE and content objects while accesses external to a customer premises can rely on global registrations. When a new component is installed such as an attached application to the NID the component can send its digital certificate via the network to the Certificate Authority database. Further digital certificates can be temporary assigned and revoked or provided on a permanent basis.

In some cases the digital certificates are maintained with the content object in a common package that can be referred to as a security file structure. A content object can consist of a header with network information and a packet section. The security file structure is maintained in the data section and can be interleaved with the data or appended to the data. The data can in some cases be encrypted unencrypted protected unprotected or some combination thereof. In one particular embodiment the digital certificate can be an X.509 Protocol. This protocol can include a version or certificate format indication a unique identifier a signature algorithm used to sign the certificate an issuer name or certificate authority name the identity of the entity to which the certificate is issued the period of validity of the certificate and any decryption information.

Various validation processes can be used in relation to the digital certificates. These validation processes can provide for assuring that the proper content objects are transmitted and that the content objects are provided from safe sources and that the content objects do not include any malicious code. In addition the digital certificates can be used to facilitate secure payments and the like.

Turning to a flow diagram illustrates a method for implicit authentication in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Following flow diagram a NID or other local authentication device identifies various digital assets including content objects and or CPE block . Each of these identified digital assets are then authenticated by the local authentication authority block . This can include assigning a digital certificate to each of the identified devices and or requesting a previously assigned digital certificate from the various devices. Alternatively it can simply include identifying the device through a MAC ID or some other identifier. From this a master list of all devices associated with the customer premises can be assembled in association with the NID. In some cases a user associated with the customer premises goes through each of the devices on the list and indicates whether the device is approved or not. Thus in some embodiments a double authentication is performed.

At some point the global authentication authority communicates with the NID block . This can occur where a request is issued by the NID for a content object accessible via the global communication network or at some other time. This time can be scheduled or otherwise. During this communication between the NID and the global communication network the global authentication authority authenticates the NID block . This authentication can include assuring that a unique identification number associated with the NID and registered with the global communication network match. Based on this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a number of other authentication approaches that can be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. For example when the NTD is installed the installer can register the NID with the global authentication authority. This can include the issuance of a digital certificate for the NID from the global certificate authority. Thus when an access to the global communication network is provided via the NID the NID can be authenticated by assuring that the digital certificate received from the NID is the same as that registered with the global authentication authority. This can be an advantage where the NID is installed by a party other than that initiating access requests to the global communication network because the party may be trusted. For example the party installing the NID may be a third party telecommunications provider or the same party that maintains the global authentication authority.

In addition the global authentication authority receives the list of digital assets previously authenticated by the local authentication authority block . Each device on the list is accepted as authentic and is from that point authorized to perform functions in relation to the global authentication network consistent with the scope of the authentication block . Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of hardware and or software that can be used to implement the method described in relation to .

Turning to other methods for authorizing the transfer of content objects are illustrated in flow diagrams and . Following flow diagram of a requestor provides a request for a content object block . Such a request can include for example an identification of the desired content object and an identification of the source of the content object. A digital certificate is associated with the request block . In some cases this can be the digital certificate of the device from which the request is issued a digital certificate associate with the requesting user and or a digital certificate associated with a NID through which the request is passed. The request is received by the content provider and the requestor is authenticated using the digital certificate block . This authentication can include accessing the global authentication authority or locally via the provider authentication authority. The content provider then associates the content provider s digital certificate including a time stamp with the requested content object block along with the digital certificate provided by the requestor block .

The requested content object including the digital certificates from the requestor and the provider is communicated to the requestor block . Thus in some embodiments of the present invention a content object is distributed with information about both the source and destination of the content object. This an be carried on where the content object is later redistributed to indicate additional sources and destinations. This can be done in such a way that the digital certificates may not be removed from the content object without damaging the content object or rendering the content object unusable. As just one of many advantages such an approach can be used to assure that viruses or other malicious code are not attached to content objects and that if a virus is attached the attachment point can be identified. Further the source of a copyright infringement can be identified by using such information. Upon receiving the content object the requestor can authenticate it using the digital certificate associated with the content object provider block . Once authenticated the requestor can store the content object to a local storage or otherwise use the content object block .

Turning to flow diagram illustrates another method similar to that of flow diagram except that the content object is transferred by another customer to the requestor. Such content redistribution can be done in accordance with that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 452 996 entitled Systems And Methods For Distributing Content Objects In A Telecommunication System filed Jun. 2 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith. The aforementioned patent application was previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Following flow diagram a first customer requests a content object from a content object provider block . The request includes a digital certificate which is used by the content object provider to authenticate the request block . The content provider identifies a second customer that has access to the requested content object and initiates a request to the second customer asking that the second customer provide the requested content object to the first customer block . In addition the content provider provides a digital certificate designating the content provider along with the digital certificate from the requestor block . Each of these digital certificates is associated with the requested content object by the NTD and or CPE associated with the second customer block . In addition the second customer associates a digital certificate identifying the second customer with the content object block . The content object is then provided to the first customer by the second customer block . The first customer can then authenticate the content object using one or both of the digital certificates from the content provider and or the second customer block . At this point the first customer stores the content object or otherwise uses the content object block .

Turning to one example of a system incorporating a demarcation device and or network interface device NID is described. and the discussion associated therewith are adapted from the following U.S. Patent Applications that were previously incorporated herein by reference for all purposes U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 364 entitled Packet Network Interface Device And Systems And Methods For Its Use filed Jan. 31 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 688 entitled Systems Methods And Apparatus For Providing A Plurality Of Telecommunication Services filed Jan. 31 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 338 entitled Configurable Network Interface Device And Systems And Methods For Its Use filed Jan. 31 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 367 596 entitled Systems And Methods For Delivering A Data Stream To A Video Appliance filed Feb. 14 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 367 597 entitled Systems And Methods For Providing Application Services filed Feb. 14 2003 and assigned to an entity common herewith.

A relatively simple configuration for providing telecommunication services is depicted. Configuration includes a distribution point that can act as a content object origination in communication with a device having demarcation capabilities via an external transport medium . In this example external transport medium comprises a transport medium external to a customer premises . Device is shown in as including an application device which is adapted to interface with an internal transport medium . In this example internal transport medium comprises a transport medium internal to customer premises . While application device is shown as part of demarcation device this is not a requirement. In other instances application device may be distinct from but coupled with demarcation device such as by using a modular design with plug and play technology.

In one sense distribution point may be considered to be a content object origination a source of telecommunication information transmitted to the customer premises and or a recipient of content objects or telecommunication information transmitted from the customer premises however distribution point need not be either the ultimate source nor the ultimate recipient of telecommunication information and or content objects. In certain embodiments distribution point may correspond to a telecommunication service provider s local office. In other embodiments distribution point may correspond to another network element in the service provider s network such as a remote termination cabinet and or a digital subscriber line access multiplier DSLAM . More generally distribution point may correspond to any facility operated by a telecommunication service provider that is capable of transmitting telecommunication information to and or receiving telecommunication information from a customer premises .

Distribution point can be capable of transmitting and or receiving any type of telecommunication information to from ANID and such telecommunication information can be organized into a plurality of content objects as necessary. For ease of description does not show any additional sources or recipients of telecommunication information in communication with distribution point but those skilled in the art will recognize that in many embodiments distribution point can be coupled to multiple customer premises perhaps via an ANID at each customer premises and often is neither the ultimate source nor the ultimate recipient of telecommunication information. Instead distribution point can serve as an intermediary between one or more customer premises and one or more telecommunication networks and or telecommunication information providers which as discussed above can include cable television networks telephone networks data networks and the like. Further many such networks as well as in some embodiments distribution point can be coupled to the Internet so that distribution point can serve as a gateway between customer premises and any source and or recipient of telecommunication information that has a connection to the Internet. The interconnection of telecommunication networks is well known in the art although it is specifically noted that distribution point can be configured to transmit telecommunication information to and receive telecommunication information from virtually any source or recipient of telecommunication information through either direct or indirect e.g. through the Internet communication. Merely by way of example a distribution point can transmit video signals received from a television programming provider to customer premises equipment as described in the applications referenced above. In other embodiments distribution point can be in communication with one or more other customer locations allowing for private virtual circuits VLAN tags and wavelengths or RF connections between customer premises and those locations.

In configuration ANID can serve as the interface between external transport medium and customer premises . As shown in usually both demarcation device and the comprised by ANID are interfaced with the internal transport medium with the demarcation device interfaced with the external transport medium although other interfacing configurations arc also within the scope of the invention. For example application device may additionally be interfaced with the external transport medium . The application device may also include a service interface for addressing the application device . The service interface may comprise a physical interface such as a universal serial bus USB FireWire IEEE 1394 registered jack 11 RJ 11 registered jack 13 RJ 13 registered jack 45 RJ 45 serial coax or other physical interface known to those of skill in the art. In other embodiments the service interface may comprise a logical interface such as may be provided through a logical connection with an IP address.

As conceptually illustrated in demarcation device and or application device may be attached to an external wall of the customer premises . Such attachment may be performed of an integrated ANID or may be performed with the components separately of a separated ANID . Such a configuration provides many advantages. For instance if the telecommunication service provider desires to upgrade or otherwise change its network including perhaps external transport medium a technician can perform any necessary changes at demarcation device and or application device as appropriate without entering the customer premises. Coupled with the ability of some demarcation devices to isolate the telecommunication service provider s network from the customer s premises this can allow the telecommunication service provider to effect substantial changes in it network without impacting or inconveniencing the customer in any respect. This could for example allow the telecommunication service provider to upgrade external transmission medium from a copper twisted pair to optical fiber without requiring any topological changes inside the customer premises . Of course demarcation device and or application device may be located at a variety of alternative locations either within customer premises or at a facility operated by the telecommunication service provider. In addition as previously noted and as discussed in further detail below an ANID may also be divided with different portions situated at different locations according to the requirements of the implementation.

Application device is configured so that it may communicate with CPE which may be located interior to the customer premises through internal transport medium . Such communication is used to implement applications defined by application device with CPE in accordance with telecommunication information received from distribution point . In addition demarcation device may communicate directly with CPE to implement other functions. While the internal transport medium may comprise any of the media discussed above in one embodiment it comprises existing telephone wiring in customer premises and in some embodiments is capable of carrying voice data and video information. For instance as described in Edward H. Frank and Jack Holloway Connecting the Home with a Phone Line Network Chip Set IEEE March April 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference the Home Phoneline Networking Alliance HPNA standards allow for simultaneous transmission of both voice information and Ethernet frames across twisted pair copper telephone wiring. In addition to the transmission of telecommunication information through ANID either directly from demarcation device or through the application device telecommunication information may be transmitted via the reverse path to the distribution point . Such telecommunication information received at distribution point may be transmitted to an information recipient such as a service provider. For example such a transmission may be used to request a pay per view movie or the like. Alternatively telecommunication information received at distribution point may be transmitted across the Internet such as may be used in the case of sending an email message.

In certain embodiments ANID can receive state information from a control point which is shown in the illustrated embodiment as associated with distribution point . In certain instances control point can be software and or hardware operated by a telecommunication service provider for controlling certain features of the operation of ANID . For instance control point can instruct ANID to provide or cease to provide particular applications and or telecommunication services with application device to the customer premises . Control point can also provide other directions to ANID through the demarcation device including for instance instructions to save or record a particular information set e.g. data representing a movie such that the information set may quickly and in some cases repeatedly be transmitted to customer premises allowing the provision of voice data video etc. on demand.

Often it may be beneficial to allow the customer to provide state information to ANID . Thus in certain embodiments control point may have a web interface such that the customer or any authorized person such as an employee of the telecommunication service provider or telecommunication information provider may log onto the web interface and configure options for ANID perhaps resulting in state commands being transmitted from distribution point to ANID . In other embodiments control point can be a web interface to ANID itself allowing the customer or other authorized person to configure ANID directly. In still other embodiments control point can communicate with ANID through an application programming interface API . Hence in some embodiments control point can interface with ANID through an API.

In many such embodiments the API corresponds to the service interface of the application device. In embodiments where the service interface comprises a logical interface the API can include a set of software hardware or firmware routines or libraries that may be invoked programmatically to configure or relay information to the application device . In that sense then control point can be understood to be a program running on a computer perhaps located at distribution point or customer premises among other locations that provides state information to application device via a software API.

In other embodiments where the service interface comprises a physical interface such as those described above the API may be accessed locally such as by a service technician. For example the service technician could visit property outside the customer premises attach a laptop computer or other device to the physical service interface and upload information to the application device including perhaps both state information as well as other telecommunication information. In still other embodiments application device can accept state information through other means including for example through a web interface by receiving a specially formatted electronic message. This is especially the case in embodiments where application device is capable of acting as a web server as discussed below.

The addressability of application device may be used in various embodiments to change the state of the application device . Such state information can include any set of data or other information that may be interpreted by application device as defining operational instructions. This includes for example commands to process certain information sets in certain ways e.g. to provide protocol conversion to allow transmission of the information set to deny transmission of the information set to direct transmission on a particular interface and the like as well as commands to provide or cease providing a particular service such as to provide access to a pay per view movie or an additional telephone line. Thus in certain aspects a telecommunication service provider can control the application services provided to a customer in several ways. First the provider can only transmit a telecommunication information set to an ANID if the user of that device is authorized to receive the application service associated with that information set. Alternatively the service provider could send one or more application services to a customer s ANID and rely on the state of the component application device to prevent unauthorized access to those services.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that certain control methods are better suited to certain services than to others. For instance with respect to cable television services the same set of information may be broadcast to many households and ANID is well suited to control access to those services allowing for greater efficiency in the providing of such services. In contrast video on demand services may instead be controlled at a distribution point or elsewhere such that a particular ANID only receives video on demand information if the customer already has requested and been authorized to receive that service. In such cases ANID may not need to provide access control functions with respect to that service.

According to some embodiments ANID can implement either of these access control schemes or both in combination as well as others. Moreover ANID can in some cases be configured to support a plurality of schemes transparently. For instance the customer could request a service from ANID perhaps using one of the methods discussed above and ANID could relay that request to the appropriate telecommunication service provider and or telecommunication information provider as well as reconfigure itself to allow access to that service if necessary. Of course ANID can also be configured to take any necessary validating or authenticating action such as notifying distribution point and or control point that the service has been requested and optionally receiving a return confirmation that the service has been authorized.

In accordance with other embodiments state information sent to ANID can include one or more commands to interface with a particular CPE in a certain way. For instance state information could instruct ANID to turn on and or off certain lights or equipment perhaps via additional equipment or to arm disarm or otherwise monitor and or configure a home security system. State information can also include operational data such as an IP address routing information and the like to name but a few examples.

State information can further include instructions to modify one or more security settings of ANID . Merely by way of example in certain embodiments ANID can include a computer virus scanner and state information can include updated virus definitions and or heuristics. Likewise ANID often will be configured with access controls such as to prevent unauthorized access through ANID by third parties. State information can include instructions on how to deal with particular third party attempts to access ANID or internal transport medium . Those skilled in the art will recognize as well that some security settings may specify the level of access the customer has to the functions of ANID such as to prevent unauthorized use of certain telecommunication services and that these settings also may be modified by received state information.

There are a variety of ways in which the various access control and security functionalities of ANID discussed above may be implemented. In different embodiments these functionalities may be performed by the demarcation device by the application device by a combination of the demarcation and application devices and and or by still other components that may additionally be comprised by ANID . Moreover the state information that manages such functionalities may sometimes be sent periodically to ANID to ensure that it is current. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that state information can be considered a subset of the broader category of telecommunication information.

Based on this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a number of demarcation devices NIDs and or encompassing systems can be used to implement the systems and methods in accordance with the present invention. For example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 367 597 entitled Systems And Methods For Providing Application Services describes a number of other examples that could also be used in accordance with the present invention. The aforementioned patent application was previously incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The aforementioned patent application additionally provides disclosure regarding mechanical and electrical characteristics of NIDs useful in relation to the present invention. In relation to a discussion adapted from the aforementioned application is provided. In contrast depicts another embodiment of a NID in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Turning to one example of a NID is illustrated. For purposes of illustration provides a top view that explicitly shows components within NID while provides a side view that shows the logical organization of NID without the components. In the illustrated embodiment NID comprises a clamshell design with a lid portion and a body portion connected by hinges A and B. Body portion comprises a network area and a customer area . Generally network area is adapted to receive a cover and is designed generally to be accessible only to personnel authorized by the telecommunication service provider. In contrast when NID is open the customer can access customer area to add or remove components as desired. In this and other ways NID serves to isolate the telecommunication service provider s network from the customer s network as described above.

NID can include a first interface for communicating with the provider s external transport medium. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in some embodiments as described above the external transport medium may comprise the twisted pair copper local loop running from the customer s premises to the telecommunication service provider s local office and interface will allow for the attachment of the local loop to NID . As discussed above in other embodiments the external transport medium can be any of a variety of other media including satellite transmissions wireless transmissions coaxial cable. In fact in certain embodiments the external transport medium can comprise multiple transport media of the same or different types for which NID could include multiple interfaces. In some such embodiments NID can function to couple a plurality of external transport media to one another seamlessly increasing the bandwidth available to the customer premises. For instance a customer premises might have a satellite link to one telecommunication service provider and an ADSL link to another provider and NID could combine or multiplex these two links to provide an apparent single higher bandwidth to the customer premises. Similarly those skilled in the art will recognize that in certain of these embodiments a particular external transport medium such as a satellite link may be more well suited to one way transmission of telecommunication information in such cases NTD could use a second external transport medium such as an ADSL link to allow transmission in the other direction.

Interface can be coupled to a discrimination device which can be operative to separate information sets received on interface and conversely aggregate information sets for transmission on interface . Merely by way of example in particular embodiments discrimination device can separate POTS information from other telecommunication information and or isolate signals on the internal transport medium from the external transport medium and vice versa. In some embodiments for instance xDSL implementations discrimination device can comprise one or more filters. Such filters can include but are not limited to high pass low pass and or band pass filters. For instance in an xDSL implementation discrimination device might include a high pass and or low pass filter for separating high frequency e.g. data from low frequency e.g. POTS information. In other embodiments discrimination device can comprise many other types of filters including both digital and analog filters. Discrimination device can be operable to separate information sets through a variety of criteria including for example by frequency by destination device information type and or frequency. Further in certain embodiments information sets can be multiplexed for instance using various time division multiplexing or wave division multiplexing schemes known in the art for transmission over an external transport medium and discrimination device can comprise a demultiplexer capable of separating multiplexed signals and optionally routing each signal to the necessary destination.

In the illustrated embodiment discrimination device is in communication with a second interface which can interface with the telephone wires at the customer premises to provide traditional analog telephone service. In some embodiments an aggregator can be situated between discrimination device and interface to allow additional perhaps non POTS information sets to be sent and received through interface simultaneously with the POTS information. This can include for example aggregating information sets for transmission of an HPNA signal over an internal transport medium.

The discrimination device can also be coupled to a processing system which in the illustrated embodiment is located in the lid portion and all non POTS information sets can be routed to processing system for additional processing. Processing system is described in detail below but can in general comprise one or microprocessors including digital signal processor DSP chips memory devices including both volatile and nonvolatile memories and storage devices including hard disk drives optical drives and other media. In fact processing system can comprise the equivalent of one or more personal computers running any of a variety of operating systems including variants of Microsoft s Windows operating system as well as various flavors of the UNIX operating system including open source implementations such as the several Linux and FreeBSD operating systems.

Telecommunication information or content objects can be processed by processing system in a variety of ways including for example routing a given content object to a particular interface transforming information such as by encoding and or decoding information and converting between different transport protocols storing information filtering information and any of the other functions described herein with respect to processing systems. In certain embodiments processing system can serve as the termination point for an external transport medium for instance processing system can incorporate the functionality of an xDSL modem. In other embodiments processing system can serve to identify quality of service requirements for instance latency requirements for voice transmissions and bandwidth requirements for streaming media transmissions to name a few and enforce those requirements ensuring that sufficient bandwidth is provided to a particular device network segment or application to maintain the quality of service required.

In the illustrated example processing system is in communication with aggregator which as discussed above can aggregate non POTS information sets received from processing system and POTS information sets received directly from discrimination device for consolidated transmission via interface . In effect discrimination device and aggregator perhaps in conjunction with processing system can function to separate telecommunication information received on interface into a set of POTS telecommunication information and a set of non POTS telecommunication information. POTS information can be understood to include ordinary telephone signals and non POTS information can be understood to include all other telecommunication information . The non POTS information is routed via transport medium to processing system for processing and the POTS information is routed to interface for transmission to the internal transport medium. In certain embodiments one or more sets of non POTS information can be routed to interface using transport medium for transmission through interface perhaps in combination with one or more sets of POTS information.

Of course discrimination device and aggregator can perform the same function in reverse i.e. to separate and recombine different sets of telecommunication information received on interface from the customer s premises. Thus in some embodiments both discrimination device and aggregator each can perform a combined discrimination device aggregator function depending on the direction of information flow. In fact while termed discrimination device and aggregator for ease of description those two devices can actually be identical and further their functionality can in some embodiments be incorporated into a single device which could be coupled to interface interface and processing system and could route information sets among any of those three components as necessary. Moreover as described below the functionality of discrimination device and or aggregator can be incorporated into processing system likewise discrimination device can incorporate interface and or aggregator can incorporate interface such that discrimination device and or aggregator comprise the necessary components to be coupled directly to the external and internal transport media respectively.

Discrimination device and or aggregator can also serve another function in certain embodiments Since the external transport medium is coupled to first interface and the internal transport medium can be coupled to inter alia second interface the discrimination device and or aggregator can serve as an isolation device for intermediating between the two media such that when a topological change occurs in one of the media only the NID interface need be changed and the other transport medium is not affected. In some such embodiments discrimination device and or aggregator can serve to intermediate including protocol translation and the like between interfaces allowing either the internal or the external transport medium to be upgraded or changed without impacting the other transport medium. Of course in certain embodiments this isolation function also could be performed by processing system . In yet other embodiments the isolation device might comprise a separate piece of hardware in communication with discrimination device aggregator and or processing system .

NID may also comprise one or more application devices which are usually disposed in the network area . The application devices are generally provided in communication with the processing system by transport media and or . In some instances such as illustrated with application devices A and B the application devices may be in communication with interfaces and that allow communication with transport media internal to the customer premises such as over transport media and . For example interface could be a coaxial interface for connection to RG6 and or RG59 cable and interface could be an RJ45 and or RJ11 interface for connection to unshielded twisted pair cable which can for instance form a 10 Base T Ethernet network.

In other instances such as illustrated with application device C information might be routed from the application device C through the aggregator. Such an application may be suitable for applications that use IP data such as a VoIP application. For example NID might receive IP data perhaps combined with other types of telecommunication information on interface . The information set comprising the IP data can be routed by the discrimination device via medium to processing system where it can be processed. Depending on the embodiment it could then be routed via transport medium to VoIP application device C and then provided to the customer s existing telephone wiring using interface optionally in conjunction with aggregator and or one or more line drivers. It could alternatively be routed to any of the other application devices A or B depending on their functionality. In this way the NID can allow virtually unlimited connectivity options for each CPE at the customer premises. Adding to the flexibility of NID the processing system could include components to serve for example as a cable or xDSL modem as well as components to serve as an Ethernet hub switch router or gateway the functions of each of which are familiar to those of skill in the art.

Furthermore the application devices may be provided generally within the network area or in the consumer area or with some in the network area and others in the consumer area depending on the embodiment. This is illustrated in by showing application devices A and C disposed within the network area of NID and application device B disposed within the consumer area of NID .

There are a variety of different application devices that can be incorporated within NID in order to provide a versatile range of functionality. The following examples are provided merely by way of illustration and still other application devices that may additionally or alternatively be used will be evident to those of skill in the art after reading this description. One application device that may be included is a digital recorder application device which could provide a mechanism for digital recording of all forms of information incoming to NID and make them accessible to a user at the customer premises. The information that could be recorded includes video data voice among other types of information. Another application device that may be included is a digital storage application device which could provide a supplementary mechanism for storing information presented to user applications. The information that could be stored also includes video data voice and other types of information. The combination of the digital recorder application device and digital storage application device in an NID may be used conveniently to provide primary and secondary information storage capabilities. For example the digital recorder application could be used to provide a primary on line video storage capability while the digital storage application could be used to provide a secondary off line video storage capability. Still other application devices could be included to enhance such functionality further. For example hard drive application device could be provided to permit expandable storage capabilities.

Other examples of application devices whose functions may be conveniently coordinated include digital asset application devices. For example one of application devices in NID could comprise a digital asset sharing application device to permit sharing of information among equipment within the customer premises. Such an asset sharing capability may be used within the customer premises to share video data electronic books games music and the like. Another of application devices could comprise a digital asset caching application device to permit storage and distribution of digital assets. The combination of digital asset sharing application devices and digital asset caching application devices among a plurality of NIDs in a service are could then be used to permit exchange of video data electronic books games music and the like among customer premises throughout a defined service area. In some instances a further application device could comprise a digital asset protection application device to control the distribution of digital assets in accordance with legal restrictions such as those derived from copyright ownership.

In some embodiments the application devices may comprise application devices for effecting various voice related applications within a customer premises. For example a voice application device could include functionality to provide such functions as telephone caller identification call logs voice mail storage voice mail retrieval call waiting solicitation barriers and the like. In addition a VoIP application device could provide support for VoIP functions within the customer premises.

Still other application devices that may be used include various types of informational applications. For example an online digital guide application device could be used to provide a digital data guide for television music and other types of programming. Such a data guide could be provided alternatively in real time or in non real time. A further example of an informational application could be realized with a home utilities application device adapted to provide monitoring and or billing tracking functions for utilities used within the customer premises. In this way the use and or cost of electricity gas water and other utilities may be monitored by the customer. In addition a diagnostic interface application device may be provided to permit diagnostic functions of equipment within the customer premises thereby permitting the customer to obtain information on the functioning of such equipment.

Other application devices may provide security functions. For example a data security application device may be used to provide hacker protection for the home responding to identified attempts to breach the security of the customer premises. In addition a home security application device could be provided to monitor the physical security of the customer premises. Such a home security application device would typically be provided with an interface to door and window monitors to determine whether they are open or shut and with an interface to motion detectors glass breaking detectors and other physical security equipment known to those of skill in the art.

Application devices may also be provided to permit various types of data conversion functions to be used by the customer premises. For example a digital information conversion application device may be provided to convert digital information incoming to NID to be converted to other sources for use by CPE in the customer premises. Thus incoming digital information could be converted to analog information for use by analog equipment such as an analog television. Similarly incoming broadcast video could be converted for transmission to a PDA and the like. Similarly a wireless application device could be used to provide a wireless interface to the customer premises for data video and other types of information. Merely by way of example if interface receives telecommunication information that includes digitally encoded video signals such as MPEG 2 data the information set that includes the encoded video signals can be routed by discrimination device to processing system . After transmission from the processing system to the information conversion application device over transport medium the signals can be decoded into RF modulated NTSC HDTV PAL and or SECAM format for transmission via transport medium to coaxial interface where it can be transmitted via coaxial cable to one or more televisions at the customer premises. Alternatively if the customer has a digital set top box located at the television the encoded signals can be routed by to aggregator where the signals can be transferred through interface to the set top box for decoding. The ability of NID to support multiple interfaces of different types thus allows great flexibility in routing telecommunication information throughout the customer premises.

Each of the application devices in the NID may include a service interface to permit states of the application devices to be changed and or updated. As previously notes such interfaces may comprise physical interfaces such as USB FireWire IEEE 1394 RJ 11 RJ 45 serial coaxial or other physical interfaces to permit a service technician to interact with the application devices while at the site of NID . Alternatively the service interfaces may comprise logical interfaces to permit IP addressing to be used in changing the state of the application devices. In many instances NID may also include a future application device with open architecture to support new applications. The architecture may be configured by use of the service interfaces when the new application is implemented.

In certain embodiments NID can comprise a line driver not shown on or B coupled to processing system and aggregator . The line driver can function to allow conversion between various network formats and media allowing a variety of different media types e.g. twisted pair and or coaxial cable in accordance with the HPNA and HPNA standards as well perhaps as the customer premises A C wiring in accordance for example with the HomePlug standard to transport combined POTS and non POTS information sets.

In certain embodiments NID can comprise a power supply for providing electrical power to the components in NID . Power supply can be powered through electrical current carried on the external transport medium and received on interface . Alternatively power supply can receive electrical current from a coaxial interface such as interface or through a dedicated transformer plugged into an AC outlet at customer premises e.g. through 12V connection . Processing system can be powered by a connection to power supply or through one or more separate power sources including perhaps the A C power of the customer premises. In some embodiments processing system might have its own power supply.

As mentioned above processing system can comprise a plurality of processing devices and each processing device can comprise multiple components including microservers memory devices storage devices and the like. As used herein a microserver is intended to refer to any device programmed to perform a specified limited set of functions such as an EPROM. Merely by way of example provides a detailed illustration of an exemplary processing system which comprises multiple processing devices . In accordance with the exemplified embodiment transport medium links processing system with an external transport medium perhaps via a discrimination device and or interface as described above.

Transport medium can be coupled to a plurality of microservers such that any information received by the processing system via transport medium may be routed to any of the microservers . Each microserver can in some embodiments be the equivalent of a server computer complete with memory devices storage devices and the like each of which is known in the art. In storage devices associated with each of the microservers are shown. Each of the microservers may be associated with one of the application devices to provide information received from transport medium and specifically processed for use by the corresponding device. Thus the microservers may individually be adapted to function as for example HTML microservers authentication microservers FTP microservers TFTP microservers DHCP microservers WebServer microservers email microservers critical alert microservers home security microservers VPN microservers advertising microservers instant messaging microservers wireless microservers RF microservers test access microservers data security microservers and the like.

In addition to these functions microservers can be configured to route information sets received via transport medium according to the type of telecommunication information in the set e.g. encoded video IP data etc. as well as any addressing information associated with either the set or the information it comprises e.g. a specified destination port or network address for a particular subset of telecommunication information . In this way microservers can serve switching functions somewhat similar to that described with respect to discrimination device described in relation to . For instance if IP data is received by microserver A such data can be routed to an Ethernet connection to the existing telephone wiring e.g. in an HPNA implementation or to any other appropriate medium perhaps via an appropriate line driver. In fact in certain embodiments processing system and in particular one or more of microservers can incorporate the functionality of discrimination device and or aggregator rendering those components optional. In some embodiments one or more of the microservers may be adapted to function as a controller for NID overseeing the NID s state and monitoring performance. In some embodiments the controller functions can be accessed using a web browser.

Processing system can have multiple means of input and output. Merely by way of example microservers can communicate with one or more external transport media perhaps as discussed above via intermediary devices using one or more transport media e.g. . Processing system also can communicate with one or more internal transport media via a variety of information conduits such as category 5 5e and or 6 unshielded twisted pair wire RG6 and or RG59 coaxial cable and category 3 unshielded twisted pair copper telephone wire again possibly via intermediary devices as discussed with reference to . Notably some embodiments of processing system can include interfaces for multiple transport media of a particular type for instance if processing system serves as a networking hub switch or router. Processing system can also have infra red and radio frequency receivers and transmitters for instance to allow use of a remote control device as well as wireless transceivers for instance to allow wireless e.g. IEEE 802.11 networking

By incorporating content object storage with NID access to content objects and serving content objects can be provided via the customer premises. This can include access to the content objects by a user at the customer premises or by others external to the customer premises that are communicably coupled to the customer premises. Thus for example a live camera may be placed in communication with content object access control device . In this way video information from the camera can be accessed by other users via the NID or by users at the customer premises via the same NID. Alternatively or in addition a variety of content objects can be maintained on content object storage and also served to other users and or utilized by users at the customer premises. Content object storage can store content objects that are produced at the customer premise or that are downloaded from some content object origination.

In some embodiments a separate interface is provided for storing content objects to one or more offline media. As used herein offline media is any media that must be installed in an online device to be accessed. Thus for example offline media can include but is not limited to CD ROMs DVDs Flash Cards floppy disks tape disks and or external drives. In some cases content objects maintained on content object storage is written on a track by track and sector by sector basis. In some cases the information maintained on content object storage is in encrypted format and is decrypted by an application operating on the NID. In other cases the information is received in encrypted format and is decrypted by the NID prior to storage on content object storage .

In particular embodiments a section of content object storage is apportioned to accept firmware updates and or other updates. In such cases such updates can be written to the portion of content object storage installed as part of the NID. It should be noted that such an approach provides for scalability where multiple hard drives or other storage elements can be added to existing storage elements forming content object storage .

Turning to one example of a remote door lock utilizing various systems and methods of the present invention is illustrated. A system includes a global certificate authority a remote access location and a service company s teleconference application each communicably coupled to a NID via a global communication network . NID is associated with a customer premises and customer premises includes one or more customer premises equipment including a gate lock a camera and a doorbell . Camera and gate lock communicate with NID via a teleconference application .

Turning to a flow diagram illustrates a method in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention and using the hardware described in relation to to provide remote access to a customer s premises. Following flow diagram a visitor approaches customer premises and an image of the visitor is detected by camera block . The visitor depresses doorbell block and in response a communication is prepared indicating that the doorbell has been actuated block . This communication includes a digital certificate from the doorbell and a digital certificate from the camera. The image captured by the camera is attached to the communication block and the communication including the digital certificates and the image is transferred to a pre designated recipient block . The pre designated recipient can be the owner of customer premises or some other person entity or machine authorized to grant access to the premises. The recipient receives the communication at a remote location block and authenticates the digital certificates from one or both of the doorbell and the camera block . Thus the recipient can know that the image of the visitor being viewed is from the camera at the customer premises and that the request to access the customer premises is being initiated via the doorbell at the customer premises. The recipient which could be a machine in particular cases can then use the verified image to identify the visitor and make a determination about whether to allow the visitor access to the customer premises block . Where the visitor is not to be allowed access block the process ends in the same way that a failure to respond to a doorbell would end block .

Alternatively where the recipient decides to grant access block an access grant message can be prepared that includes a digital certificate associated with the recipient block . This access grant message can then be communicated to gate lock block which in turn authenticates the digital certificate of the recipient block . Where the certificate is properly authenticated the gate is unlocked block .

The invention has now been described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding. However it will be appreciated that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly it should be recognized that many other systems functions methods and combinations thereof arc possible in accordance with the present invention. Thus although the invention is described with reference to specific embodiments and figures thereof the embodiments and figures are merely illustrative and not limiting of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined solely by the appended claims.

