---

title: System and method for provisioning a vehicle interface module
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for provisioning a vehicle interface module comprising receiving a VIM from a VIM manufacturer and entering appropriate VIM data into a dealer inventory, activating a SIM card for the VIM and installing the VIM in a predetermined vehicle, selecting a wireless activated VIM from the dealer inventory and connecting the VIM to an OBD-II port of the vehicle, connecting a configuration PC to the VIM and downloading a modem configuration, selecting and downloading a vehicle-specific configuration file, accessing a telematics services provider's web portal, entering appropriate vehicle data, and associating the vehicle with the VIM, installing the VIM in the predetermined vehicle, and conducting an installation verification test.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970496&OS=07970496&RS=07970496
owner: Inilex, Inc.
number: 07970496
owner_city: Chandler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100806
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 613 047 filed on Dec. 19 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 098 entitled System and Method for Provisioning a Vehicle Interface Module and incorporates the disclosure of the application by reference. To the extent that the present disclosure conflicts with any referenced application however the present disclosure is to be given priority.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for provisioning a vehicle interface module at the manufacturer level at the dealership level and at the telematics services provider level.

Telematics systems typically combine telecommunications and information processing and frequently involve automobile systems that combine global positioning system GPS satellite tracking and wireless communications for automatic roadside assistance and remote diagnostics. Some vehicle telematics systems monitor for diagnostic trouble codes in the vehicle that are formed from sensory inputs from various electronic modules in the vehicle.

Telematics systems promise to combine vehicle safety entertainment and convenience features through wireless access to distributed networks such as the Internet. Such systems are distinguishable from hardware centric audio and vehicle control systems that are built into devices custom designed for each vehicle. By contrast vehicle telematics systems may include infotainment delivered by plug and play hardware whose functionality can be upgraded through software loads or simple module replacement. It is anticipated that significant new revenue streams will be opened up to automobile manufacturers and service providers through the products and services made available through telematics systems.

In the field of vehicle telematics technologies have been devised that contribute to expanding the use of commercial and personal vehicles from merely a form of transportation to acting as communication hubs. According to these technologies a vehicle is able to communicate wirelessly with remote systems in order to serve or facilitate a number of objectives including related to safety navigation information gathering entertainment and education. Communications with the vehicle typically involve a cellular phone or other communication device that is able to send and receive communications from outside the vehicle.

Beginning with model year 1996 the Environmental Protection Agency EPA requires vehicle manufacturers to install on board diagnostics OBD II for monitoring light duty automobiles and trucks. OBD II systems include microcontrollers and sensors that monitor the vehicle s electrical and mechanical systems and generate data that are processed by a vehicle s engine control unit ECU to detect any malfunction or deterioration in the vehicle s performance. Most ECUs transmit status and diagnostic information over a shared standardized electronic bus in the vehicle which effectively functions as an on board computer network with many processors that transmit and receive data. The primary computers in this network are the vehicle s electronic control module ECM for monitoring engine functions and power control module PCM for monitoring the vehicle s power train. Data available from the ECM and PCM include vehicle speed fuel level engine temperature and intake manifold pressure.

Data from the above mentioned systems are made available through a standardized serial 16 cavity OBD II connector which usually is disposed underneath the vehicle s dashboard. When the vehicle is serviced data from the vehicle s ECM and or PCM is typically queried using an external engine diagnostic tool that plugs into the OBD II connector. The vehicle s engine is turned on and data is transferred from the engine computer through the OBD II connector and to the external engine diagnostic tool. The data is then displayed and analyzed to service the vehicle. Some vehicle manufacturers also include complex electronic systems in their vehicles to access and analyze some of the above described data. By way of example General Motors includes in some vehicles a system called On Star which collects and transmits data through a wireless network. On Star systems are not connected through the OBD II connector but instead are wired directly to the vehicle s electronic system when the vehicle is manufactured.

The present invention provides systems and methods for provisioning a vehicle interface module VIM . At the manufacturer s level a method for provisioning a VIM comprises manufacturing the VIM installing a test SIM card configuring the VIM performing a functional test to verify VIM performance changing the default on board application from test to operational replacing the test SIM card with an inactive VIM specific SIM card and shipping the VIM to a predetermined dealership. The VIM may be configured for a default vehicle such that the VIM requires customization for a specific vehicle make and model and the associated SIM card is de activated. According to the invention the step of installing the test SIM card comprises inserting the test SIM card in an associated SIM card holder in the VIM and the step of configuring the VIM comprises connecting the VIM via a serial port to an installation PC to provide access to various software applications. For example the software applications may comprise a VIM off board application a VIM on board test application a VIM default configuration file and a VIM on board operational application. The step of configuring the VIM further comprises opening the VIM off board application on the installation PC downloading the VIM on board test application activating the on board test application using the off board application entering the SIM configuration data in the off board application downloading the wireless modem configuration and downloading the default vehicle configuration.

In the above method the step of changing the on board application from test to operational may comprise up loading and activating the VIM on board operational application using the VIM off board application. In addition the step of replacing the test SIM card with an inactive VIM specific SIM card may entail replacing the SIM configuration data in the VIM off board application and downloading the new modem configuration. According to some embodiments the method may further comprise sending a summary VIM flat file to the vehicle telematics services provider upon shipping the VIM to the a predetermined dealership wherein the VIM flat file includes all VIM relevant data and shipping destination information. Additionally the step of installing a test SIM card may comprise installing a pre activated SIM card and the step of replacing the test SIM card may comprise de activating the SIM card.

At the dealership level a method for provisioning a VIM comprises the steps of a receiving a VIM from a VIM manufacturer and entering appropriate VIM data into a dealer inventory b activating a SIM card for the VIM and installing the VIM in a predetermined vehicle c selecting a wireless activated VIM from the dealer inventory and connecting the VIM to an OBD II port of the vehicle d connecting a configuration PC to the VIM and downloading a modem configuration e selecting and downloading a vehicle specific configuration file f accessing a telematics services provider s web portal entering appropriate vehicle data and associating the vehicle with the VIM g installing the VIM in the predetermined vehicle and h conducting an installation verification test. In particular steps a and b are performed by a dealer and steps c to h are performed by a service technician.

According to the method at the dealership level step b may further comprise generating install orders for the service technician. The method may also comprise the steps of logging into the telematics service provider s web portal and entering a VIM vehicle association into the telematics service provider s database. In addition step h may comprise turning an ignition of the vehicle on and off and observing a registration record on the telematics services provider s web portal. Upon successfully conducting the installation verification test the vehicle may be released for sale.

At the telematics services provider level a method for provisioning a VIM comprises receiving a VIM flat file from a VIM manufacturer the flat file including all VIM relevant data and shipping destination information entering the VIM relevant data in a telematics database using the flat file and associating the VIM with a dealer receiving the VIM. The step of entering the VIM relevant data in a telematics database may comprise setting up a future association of the VIM with a vehicle and a customer of the telematics service provider.

Other features and advantages of the present invention should become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

In the following paragraphs the present invention will be described in detail by way of example with reference to the attached drawings. Throughout this description the preferred embodiment and examples shown should be considered as exemplars rather than as limitations on the present invention. As used herein the present invention refers to any one of the embodiments of the invention described herein and any equivalents. Furthermore reference to various feature s of the present invention throughout this document does not mean that all claimed embodiments or methods must include the referenced feature s .

Activated VIM A VIM having an activated communication service with a wireless service provider in case of Global System for Mobile Communications GSM service using SIM card activation process .

Configuration PC A computer used e.g. by a dealership service technician for configuring and testing VIMs prior to and during installation.

Default Configuration File A vehicle specific network protocol that may be used for functional testing at the manufacturer and is replaced during installation.

Flat File A list containing manufactured VIMs and associated identifiers that may be shipped to an appropriate dealership.

Functional Test A test performed e.g. at the manufacturer to verify functional compliance with various system requirements.

Installation PC A computer used by the manufacturer i to perform various functions such as the installation of VIM platform firmware and software applications e.g. on board application modem configuration and vehicle configuration and or ii to perform functional testing.

Installation Verification Test A test performed e.g. by a dealership service technician to verify the functional operation of installed VIMs.

Modem A wireless transceiver for wireless VIM communications with a server e.g. of the telematics services provider .

Modem Configuration A process for VIM specific modem configuration e.g. including modem identifiers SIM card configuration data a server static IP number and wireless service provider data .

OBD II A vehicle s on board diagnostic port that can be used to determine whether there is a malfunctioning vehicle component utilizing the vehicle s computer system.

Off Board Application A software application e.g. residing on the installation PC that may be used for installing firmware files on board application files default configuration files modem and vehicle and the functional test software application.

On Board Application A software application e.g. residing on the installation PC that may include an on board test application and an on board operational application.

On Board Operational Application A software application that interfaces with the VIM platform over application programming interfaces and controls the operation of the VIM and its interfaces during VIM operation.

On Board Test Application A software application that interfaces with the VIM platform over application programming interfaces and controls the operation of the VIM and its interfaces during VIM functional testing.

Operational SIM Card A subscriber identity module SIM card used for VIM communications with a server of the telematics services provider during operation.

Telematics Database A central database that is part of the server of the telematics services provider e.g. used for storing vehicle related information such as vehicle identity data vehicle operational data vehicle owner data and telematics service data .

Telematics Web Portal A web portal with rule based access for telematics services users such as customers and dealership service technicians.

Test SIM Card A SIM card that is activated with a wireless service provider and used for temporary functional testing e.g. at the manufacturer s location .

Vehicle Configuration File A vehicle specific network protocol that provides communications between the VIM and specific vehicle makes and models.

VIM Association A database association between i a specific VIM identified by one or more unique VIM identifiers modem identifiers and or SIM card identifiers and ii a specific vehicle identified by a unique VIN and other features such as make model year and color.

VIM Inventory A record of VIMs e.g. at a dealership including activated and non activated VIMs that is delivered from manufacturer but not yet installed in vehicles.

VIM Platform A platform including i a mechanical housing with interconnects to the vehicle OBDII configuration and installation PC serial port communications antenna and GPS antenna ii a circuit board with processor wireless modem GPS receiver automotive network interface hardware power supply serial port interface and memory iii firmware controlling platform operation and iv application programming interfaces to the on board application.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods for providing telematics solutions for the consumer telematics market in the areas of in vehicle safety security operation and performance These telematics solutions may comprise aftermarket products that are sold through automotive dealerships at the time of the initial sale of the vehicles. According to some embodiments of the invention the telematics solutions may be created specifically for automotive manufacturers that do not offer a complete set of telematics solutions. Secure communication links may be provided over cellular or WiFi networks back to a telematics services provider. The telematics services system of the invention includes a robust flexible and scalable server and database architecture. Additionally the telematics services system includes one or more software applications that interface with system users and the vehicles equipped with the VIMs of the invention. By way of example the software applications may comprise a VIM off board application a VIM on board test application a VIM default configuration file e.g. including VIM serial number default VIN and default vehicle configuration parameters and a VIM on board operational application.

The systems and methods of the invention involve provisioning one or more vehicle interface modules VIMs and providing service activation for the VIMs. Each VIM comprises hardware that may be installed by a service technician at a dealership for example just before or just after the sale of a vehicle. The VIM is adapted to be connected to the vehicle s on board data system including an ECU. The VIM may be used to provide various telematics solutions such as location information safety and security information vehicle operation information and vehicle performance information. The vehicle performance information may include without limitation 1 diagnostics monitoring e.g. for reading analyzing and reporting current diagnostics data to dealership service departments 2 fuel efficiency monitoring e.g. for monitoring vehicle performance and reporting opportunities to improve fuel efficiency and 3 in dash navigation. The vehicle operation information may include without limitation 1 current vehicle speed and engine RPM 2 brake action status 3 door ajar status and 4 seat belt status.

The safety and security information provided by the telematics system may include but is not limited to 1 trouble code monitoring e.g. to monitor vehicle performance alert service departments when problems detected and or send monthly vehicle status reports 2 vehicle tracking e.g. for locating and or tracking vehicles over the Internet 3 remote door lock unlock 4 stolen vehicle recovery e.g. to locate stolen vehicles and prevent engine from starting or to detect unauthorized vehicle movement 5 accident assistance e.g. to alert the telematics services provider when an airbag has been deployed so that the provider can contact the driver and or alert emergency authorities and 6 roadside assistance e.g. for flat tires or when the vehicles is out of gas . The telematics system may also be employed to offer entertainment and infotainment options features that improve the ability for service technicians to remotely diagnose vehicle problems and download in vehicle software upgrades and improved emergency agency integration and correspondence without departing from the scope of the invention.

The VIM platform of the invention comprises an integrated hardware module containing various interface modules to facilitate the various functions of the VIM. Specifically the VIM includes a central processor that hosts an embedded real time Operating System OS to run one or more software applications such as comprising machine readable or interpretable instructions for operating the VIM. More particularly the VIM software may comprise two broadly classified software components including an on board application and a platform application. The integrated hardware module may comprise a housing with a plurality of connectors a plurality of individual modular hardware interface modules a central processor an OS and software for the platform application. The platform application may include application programming interfaces APIs for the on board application and the basic executive functions based on the OS and the hardware interfaces host port processing.

In accordance with the principles of the invention the VIM comprises a state of the art communications device including an on board computer that may be installed inside the dash of a vehicle and connects to the vehicle s various data protocols. Once installed in the vehicle the VIM is capable of reading messages from the vehicle e.g. from the odometer or fuel gauge and sending messages to the vehicle e.g. to unlock doors . In addition the VIM may be connected to the vehicle s power source in order to perform various functions whether or not the vehicle is running The VIM may include an integrated GPS chipset for pulling location information as well as integrated cellular and WiFi chipsets for transmitting and receiving data from the telematics services provider. Software residing on the VIM is capable of hand off between the WiFi and cellular networks without conflicts or security risks in order to leverage both communication devices.

The VIMs are designed to be installed in vehicles by a service technician at a dealership in less than about an hour. Each vehicle that is enabled by the service provider requires the VIM to use a specific set of software designed to communicate with the associated vehicle. According to some embodiments generic VIMs are distributed to dealerships and then the appropriate software is added to the VIMs via over the air provisioning by the telematics services provider. This over the air process enables the provider to upgrade VIMs offer new services and fix problems without any further interaction by the service technician or customer.

According to the invention the VIM further comprises an on board processor and memory. Rather than sending all the codes received from the vehicle to be processed by an outside server the VIM may process data from the vehicle and only send the necessary information over the communication networks when requested or during pre programmed intervals e.g. when the vehicle is turned off . This reduces the amount of data sent over the communications network thereby reducing the cost of providing the service. In addition the on board processor may be pre programmed to look for certain codes or events and send real time alerts when one of the codes or events is detected.

The telematics services system of the invention may be accessed by customers and dealers via the Internet an automated telephone attendant or through an in vehicle screen or button. When a vehicle is stolen an emergency agency receives a case specific access ID that may be used to logon to the service provider s website and only track the location of the stolen vehicle once a stolen vehicle report number is reported to the provider. In the event of an accident a customer service representative of the provider immediately creates a new access ID for emergency agencies to be able to access all pertinent information about the accident. At predetermined intervals e.g. once a month the service provider will send a message e.g. via email which details the current primary diagnostic readings from the vehicle and provides a report setting forth the vehicles mileage and average fuel consumption over the predetermined interval.

In operation a VIM is installed in a vehicle and is used to monitor the status of the vehicle from information from various sources such as automotive interface module AIM messages. Such messages may include controller area network CAN interface messages CAN1 CAN2 and Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART based protocol interface messages UBP K line . Additional information about the vehicle is gathered by the VIM over the GPS and General Packet Radio Service GPRS interfaces. The information may be stored locally on the VIM for later retrieval on demand by the provider s telematics server or using applications over the universal serial bus USB interfaces.

Referring to a preferred VIM platform manufactured in accordance with the principles of the invention comprises an integrated hardware module that contains a central processor CPU hosting an embedded real time OS that runs a platform application VIM interface software and an on board application VIM functional software . The VIM platform comprises a VIM hardware board disposed within a mechanical enclosure having connectors to the vehicle network s the vehicle battery and ground a personal computer PC and external antennas. In addition the VIM platform may include interfaces to one or more hardware modules including but not limited to 1 a GPRS module e.g. for wireless communication to the telematics system 2 a GPS module e.g. to acquire accurate time and positioning information from the GPS satellites 3 a USB module e.g. to communicate to an external application for configuration and diagnostics 4 an AIM interface to a plurality of CAN modules and UART modules and for vehicle interface messaging 5 external memory module used to store the firmware for the central processor and for dynamic storing of vehicle data and vital statistics SIM module and PS module 6 a GPRS SIM module interface e.g. for communicating with the SIM module to read and write into the SIM card and 7 a power supply module e.g. to control the power modes based on one or more modes of operation of the VIM .

According to the invention the central processor on the VIM platform is capable of processing millions of instructions per second in order to perform the OS processing the platform application processing the on board application processing and the hardware interface processing. In addition the central processor comprises a plurality of hardware interfaces including an interface to the wireless GPRS module to the GPS module the USB module to the memory module to the power supply module to the CAN1 module to the CAN2 module to UART1 module to the UART2 module

With further reference to the VIM platform may include a robust snap on 16 pin connector for example comprising 1 two CAN high and two CAN low interface pins 2 two UART pins 3 four pins for general purpose VIM inputs and outputs 4 a pin for vehicle battery voltage 5 a pin for a signal ground 6 four USB interface pins and 7 a pin for a chassis ground. The VIM platform may also includes a separate snap on USB connector as well as an internal connector from USB port to appropriate pins on the 16 pin connector . The VIM platform s CAN interfaces are capable of receiving and transmitting standard frames with 11 bit and extended frames with 29 bit identifiers. The platform supports access to one or more USB channels and supports a plurality of programmable general purpose I Os GPIO .

In operation the VIM platform may be configured to use the vehicle battery as the power source for example using the OBD II connector. The platform supports a sleep mode with a minimal current draw on the vehicle battery that is preferably less than approximately 2.5 mA. While in the sleep mode the platform monitors activity on the CAN networks. Upon detecting CAN network activity the platform automatically powers up and initializes all its components. In sleep mode the platform is able to receive an email from the telematics server whenever coverage is available. The platform automatically powers up and initializes all its components upon receiving the email from the telematics server. According to some embodiments the VIM platform remains powered up for approximately 3 seconds after removal of the battery source.

The VIM platform preferably includes a housing such as a mechanical enclosure comprising a hard plastic enclosure with secure attachment points. According to some embodiments the housing is less than about 9 inches long 4.5 inches wide and 1.5 inches thick. The VIM platform also includes a rugged standard mechanical interface for adaptable mounting to different vehicle makes and models. The platform may further comprise a robust snap on coaxial connector for an active external GPS antenna as well as a robust snap on coaxial connector for an external cellular antenna. The coaxial antenna connectors are grounded to the circuit ground inside the VIM platform .

The VIM platform of the invention is preferably highly reliable in the field and environmentally friendly. According to some embodiments the platform preferably meets all the environmental specifications in place with respect to car radios. Additionally the VIM platform preferably does not interfere with the car radio if present in any of the VIM operating modes. The platform may be subjected to various testing including but not limited to 1 electromagnetic interference EMI testing 2 temperature range testing 3 shock and vibration testing 4 dust testing 5 humidity testing and 6 emissions testing.

As set forth above the VIM platform comprises one or more software applications for carrying out the functionality of the VIM. According to an implementation of the invention the VIM platform may contain three software layers including the OS the platform software and the on board application. In particular the OS is the first layer on which the platform software runs as a second layer wherein the on board application comprises the third layer that runs on top of the platform layer. During use the on board application uses the APIs provided by the platform layer to communicate to the hardware interface modules. In addition the on board layer uses the functions and features provided by the OS including interrupts for other operations that may or may not relate to and or be specific to the hardware interfaces.

According to the invention the VIM platform may be configured to support an embedded real time OS that may support without limitation 1 real time multi tasking 2 task creation and prioritization 3 semaphores for pre emptive processing of tasks in the multi tasking environment 4 dynamic memory allocation 5 host port messaging 6 TCP IP socket programming 7 messaging between tasks and 8 timer and timer management. The selected OS is preferably capable of running on more than one particular target processor.

Upon power up the platform downloads the program code from non volatile memory and powers up all hardware interfaces upon power up. The platform configures the VIM and all hardware interfaces based on the configuration data in the memory. Upon completion of this initialization the platform application notifies the on board application by sending a message with the status. This power up and initialization completion message may be configured to support at least 16 status codes. Once the power up and initialization completion message is received from the platform application with a success code the on board application enquires about the status of ignition and takes appropriate action based upon the status.

The platform application operates under the task priorities set forth by the on board application wherein the platform application provides APIs necessary to set the task priorities. In accordance with the principles of the invention the platform application preferably provides program stubs dummy routines that are inserted in every functional routine of the platform application. The platform application also monitors the status of all hardware devices reports any faults to the on board application and logs the faults to the non volatile memory. If it is safe for the other VIM operations the platform application will attempt to recover from the fault. However the platform application will not attempt to reset the VIM or the hardware without explicitly requesting to do so through on board commands or APIs. The platform application is adapted to log all diagnostic and static data to the non volatile memory for non recoverable faults and then report all faults exceptions and errors to the on board application.

The platform application software provides APIs to be used by the on board application to configure program and communicate with the VIM hardware modules. The central processor on the VIM provides APIs to interface to the wireless communications GPRS module. The platform application configures the wireless module provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the wireless module e.g. including monitoring and control of modem status provides APIs for communications to and from the wireless module provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the wireless module and provides APIs for reset and initialization of the wireless module. The central processor on the VIM also provides APIs to interface to the GPS module. Specifically the platform application configures the GPS module provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the GPS module provides APIs for communications to and from the GPS module provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the GPS module and provides APIs for reset and initialization of the GPS module.

The central processor on the VIM further provides APIs to interface to the USB module. In particular the platform application configures the USB interface provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the USB interface provides APIs for communications to and from the USB interface provides APIs for VIM provisioning provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the USB interface provides APIs for reset and initialization of the USB interface. According to the invention the platform application processes commands received over the USB interface irrespective of the state of processing of the VIM.

The central processor on the VIM provides APIs to interface to the AIM modules including the CAN1 CAN2 UART1 UART2 and USB interfaces. Specifically the platform application configures the CAN1 bus provides APIs for configuring the CAN1 bus provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the CAN1 module provides APIs for communications to and from the CAN1 module provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the CAN1 module and provides APIs for Reset and Initialization of the CAN1 module. The platform application also configures the CAN2 bus provides APIs for configuring the CAN2 bus provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the CAN2 module provides APIs for communications to and from the CAN2 module provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the CAN2 module and provides APIs for Reset and Initialization of the CAN2 module. In addition the platform application configures the UART modules provides APIs for configuring the UART modules provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the UART modules provides APIs for communications to and from the UART modules provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the UART module and provides APIs for Reset and Initialization of the UART modules. The platform application also configures the USB bus provides APIs for configuring the USB bus provides APIs for host port interfacing to and from the USB module provides APIs for communications to and from the USB module provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the USB module and provides APIs for Reset and Initialization of the USB module.

The central processor on the VIM provides APIs to interface to the flash memory and the SRAM memory and configures the memory. According to an embodiment of the invention the platform application preferably supports at least 128 Mbytes of memory. The platform application provides APIs for allocating the memory APIs for reading from and writing to the memory APIs for diagnostic testing of the memory and APIs for reset and initialization of the memory. The platform application may support storing dynamic data as well as storing of two different copies of the platform application and different copies of the on board application.

The central processor on the VIM provides APIs to interface to the power supply interface. Specifically the platform application configures the power supply interface provides APIs to program the power supply for different modes of operation of the VIM provides APIs for diagnostic testing of the power supply interface and provides APIs for reset and initialization of the power supply interface. According to the invention the platform application is configured to report battery disconnect to the on board application API. In addition the platform application reports a power up complete status to the on hard application API.

The platform application also provides APIs to reset all hardware upon request from the on board application. In particular the platform application reloads the copy of firmware from the memory location indicated by the on board application and configures the VIM using the configuration data indicated by the on board application. The platform application is configured to reset reload and configure the VIM with program code and configuration data as indicated by the on board application in any state of processing during the operation of the VIM.

In accordance with the principles of the invention a preferred method for provisioning a VIM for service will now be described with respect to . Specifically illustrates the provisioning and service activation steps at the manufacturer level using a test SIM card while illustrates the provisioning and service activation steps at the manufacturer level without using a test SIM card e.g. using a VIM specific SIM card with a temporary activation . Referring to step comprises manufacturing the VIM. Step comprises installing the test SIM card. This step may entail inserting the SIM card in the associated SIM card holder in the VIM platform . Step involves configuring the VIM for example by connecting the VIM platform via a serial port to an installation PC to provide access to various software applications such as the VIM off board application the VIM on board test application the VIM default configuration file and the VIM on board operational application. Step may further involve opening the VIM off board application on the installation PC downloading the VIM on board application activating the on board application using the off board application entering the SIM configuration data in the off board application downloading the wireless modem configuration and downloading the default vehicle configuration. Downloading the wireless modem configuration may entail configuring the wireless modem by providing the appropriate SIM card ID wireless provider ID phone number and static internet protocol IP for telematics server registration.

With continued reference to the method proceeds to step which involves performing a functional test to verify VIM platform performance. Step involves changing the default on board application from test to operational. This step may entail up loading and activating the VIM on board operational application using the VIM off board application. Step involves replacing the test SIM card with an inactive VIM specific SIM card. This step may entail replacing the SIM configuration data in the VIM off board application and re loading the modem configuration data from the off board application. Step comprises disconnecting the VIM platform from the PC and shipping the VIM platform to the appropriate dealership. This step may further involve sending a summary VIM platform flat file to the vehicle telematics services provider. The flat file may include all VIM relevant data in the shipment and the shipping destination information. VIMs that are delivered to dealers may be configured for a default vehicle such that these VIMs require customization for a specific vehicle make and model and the associated SIM cards are not activated.

Referring to step comprises manufacturing the VIM while step comprises installing a pre activated SIM card. The step of installing the pre activated SIM card may entail inserting the SIM card in the associated SIM card holder in the VIM platform . Step involves configuring the VIM by connecting the VIM platform via a serial port to an installation PC to provide access to various software applications including the VIM off board application the VIM on board test application the VIM default configuration file and the VIM on board operational application. Step may further entail opening the VIM off board application on the installation PC downloading the VIM on board application activating the on board application using the off board application entering the SIM configuration data in the off board application downloading the wireless modem configuration and downloading the default vehicle configuration. Downloading the wireless modem configuration may entail configuring the wireless modem by providing the appropriate SIM card ID wireless provider ID phone number and static internet protocol IP for telematics server registration.

With continued reference to the method proceeds to step which involves performing a functional test to verify VIM platform performance Step involves changing the default on board application from test to operational by up loading and activating the VIM on board operational application using the VIM off board application. Step involves de activating the SIM card for example using an inactive VIM specific SIM card. Step comprises disconnecting the VIM platform from the PC and shipping the VIM platform to the appropriate dealership. As set forth above with respect to this step may further involve sending a summary VIM platform flat file to the vehicle telematics services provider the flat file may including all VIM relevant data in the shipment and the shipping destination information.

With further reference to upon receiving the install orders the service technician selects a wireless activated VIM from the dealer inventory in step . In step the service technician connects the VIM to the OBD II port and in step connects the configuration PC to the VIM. Step involves downloading the modem configuration whereas step involves selecting and downloading the vehicle specific configuration file using the configuration application. In step the service technician accesses the web portal enters the vehicle data and associates the vehicle with the VIM. In step the service technician installs the VIM in the appropriate vehicle including appropriate antennas . The service technician may then log into the telematics service provider s web portal e.g. over a PC internet connection and enter the new VIM vehicle association into the provider s database which identifies the VIM records with the future vehicle owner and the provider s service user. In step the service technician conducts an installation verification test e.g. by turning the ignition on and off and observing a registration record on the provider s web portal . Step entails releasing the vehicle for sale.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced by other than the various embodiments and preferred embodiments which are presented in this description for purposes of illustration and not of limitation and the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow. It is noted that equivalents for the particular embodiments discussed in this description may practice the invention as well. Therefore the present invention should not be seen as limited to the forms shown which is to be considered illustrative rather than restrictive.

