---

title: Sporting event image capture, processing and publication
abstract: Systems, methods and software are disclosed for capturing and/or importing and processing media items such as digital images or video () associated with a sporting event such as a marathon or bicycle race (FIG. ). The media items are processed, including bib number or facial recognition if necessary (), to associate them with an individual participant. Other input sources may include spectator uploads (), external web sites and media sharing () or social networking () services. The system () aggregates, organizes and generates content, and distributes it () via various output channels, which may include event web sites (), personal feeds (), and other output channels (, FIG. ). Preferably, selected content is associated with at least one individual participant in the event, and that content is automatically distributed to channels that are associated with that individual participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07800646&OS=07800646&RS=07800646
owner: Strands, Inc.
number: 07800646
owner_city: Corvallis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100420
---
This application is a divisional of pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 646 868 filed Dec. 23 2009 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 140 810 filed Dec. 24 2008 and incorporated herein by this reference.

 2008 2010 Strands Inc. A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. 37 CFR 1.71 d .

This invention pertains to methods and apparatus for on line collection aggregation analysis and distribution of media items such as images and video associated with sporting events and with individual participants in such events.

The present invention pertains to athletic or sporting events especially those that involve individuals or small groups of participants for example a cross country or marathon runner for illustration. Each runner in this example has an identifier that distinguishes her from the other runners in the same event. Traditionally this identifier comprises a bib number meaning a number usually an integer but it may be alpha numeric or any other defined symbol that is printed on a placard that in turn can be pinned clipped or otherwise attached to the runner s clothing so that the bib number is visible to an observer during the sporting event. Such a placard is usually made of a flexible but preferably durable waterproof material. It may be suspended for example around the user s neck or arm rather than attached to the clothing. Alternatively or in addition the bib number may be attached to the participant s bicycle boat motorcycle or other equipment.

It is known to provide sporting event photographs after the event for inspection selection and distribution via a computer network. Typically photographs are taken and bib numbers are recognized by human visual inspection. Those numbers can be associated with a roster or database of participants in the event. The photographs actually digital files containing the photographic content are transferred to a computer network server and access to the server enables the participants or others to browse the photos order prints etc.

According to U.S. Pat. No. 6 985 875 the identifying data can include a name of an event participant a number corresponding to a number worn by the event participant the date and time the photograph was taken or a code captured from a component as it passes a sensor. Such a component can be passive or active and can include a bar code inductive device RFID tag or an electronic transmitting device which is worn by the event participant. The event participants may be informed of the identifying data by posting the identifying data associated with each photograph so that it is made available to the participants of the event or friends and family for later use in searching the server. The photographs are cataloged in the server according to the identifying data and can be subsequently ordered using the server which is typically an Internet web site.

The prior art is lacking in several respects. For example recognizing bib numbers by human observation is time consuming and expensive. Imagine the effort to sort out thousands of images of thousands of runners in the New York Marathon. Another difficulty is that even if pictures are matched to a participant the location where the picture was taken is often unknown unless a person who took the picture records and provides the location data or an observer of the picture happens to recognize the location in the picture. A user of a social networking web site for example Facebook can manually upload and tag a photo with descriptive information but this process is cumbersome and may not be reliable. In general random photos of an event may be interesting especially to the participants and perhaps her family members or teammates but their utility is limited without associating reliable time location and route information. The present invention in various embodiments seeks to provide novel products and services by combining inputs from various data sources and processing the inputs in new ways.

The following is a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method calls for receiving digital image input files still or video from at least one input source and storing the input files in memory. Preferably each input file includes a digital image showing at least one person who is participating in a selected sporting event at the time the image was captured. The method includes processing an uploaded image so as to machine recognize a bib number worn by a person in the image or the respective bib numbers worn by several people. By accessing a database of participants in the sporting event and or an event database a server can automatically associate the image with one or more individual participant s by matching the machine recognized bib number s to record s in the database. This feature contrasts with prior art e.g. social networking sites where photographs or other media must be manually associated with a user or other persons. In another embodiment the location and time associated with a photo may be used to search a database of events to identify the corresponding event.

The method further calls for accessing data defining a route of the sporting event and determining a location along the route where the image of the participant was captured. Then the system generates output including in an embodiment at least one photo and or video that includes an image of the associated individual and wherein the output content includes an indication of a location along the route where the photo or video was captured. For example a route map may be displayed with the photo of the participant superimposed on the route map with a pointer to the location where the photo was taken.

In a preferred embodiment the method further includes electronically distributing the digital output content to at least one of an event web site the associated participant s personal space at a social networking site and via the user s personal feed.

In another aspect an embodiment of the invention aggregates media items text photos video etc. from a wide variety of sources to paint a more engaging robust and socially interactive collage of an event such as a marathon. For example photos or other media from friends spectators other web sites even participants themselves are assembled at a common site for archiving and or distribution to the public. The various input items can be historic pre existing before an event real time generated during the event or uploaded and added to the site after the fact.

On the distribution side content including data media items etc. may be distributed into a variety of existing Web 2.0 applications. Unlike conventional broadcast media such as television the content provided by the present system is no longer limited to a few highlights of an event or clips of a few famous athletes in action. Rather many or even every individual participant in an event can be identified and their individual information photos scores results video clips etc. can be distributed to all who are interested in an interactive and compelling manner.

Additional aspects and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Returning to the cross country race example we assume a throng of runners each having a bib number as discussed. Preferably the bib number or symbol should be machine readable. That is an image of the bib number e.g. captured with a camera should be usable in an OCR optical character recognition system or the like. In an alternative embodiment the bib may include an invisible indicator of the bib number for example an RFID tag embedded in the bib. In that case a suitable sensor or transceiver can capture the bib number from the RFID tag while the runner passes by the sensor.

Machine recognition of visible bib numbers may be used to advantage as follows. In some cases a digital image photograph may be processed preliminarily to recognize a person that is distinguish a person in the image from the background. Person recognition is known in other applications such as premises security systems that employ real time video surveillance. In this regard a video clip rather than a still image may be advantageous. Video coding techniques are known that separate moving or changing regions of an image from static ones. These techniques may be applied to more easily machine recognize a person region in a digital image or video.

In other cases separate recognition of a person may be unnecessary and the process goes directly to locating the bib. Common bib locations are the chest center of back or low back of a runner or cyclist. Most bib number placards are rectangular. Based on size shape and location a computer implemented process can identify likely candidates for the bib placard region. Multiple candidate regions may be captured and stored for further processing as discussed later. In one alternative embodiment a special marking or symbol can be printed on the bib to make machine recognition of the bib easier and more reliable.

In an embodiment a character or symbol recognition process is applied to the candidate bib region of the digital image in an effort to recognize the bib number. In an embodiment a machine learning method may be used to train a system for recognizing bib numbers. Character recognition techniques OCR are known in other applications such as processing images that contain text. OCR is also well developed for example in mail sorting machines such as those used by the US Postal Service to read addresses on paper mail pieces. To support this effort in an embodiment the character recognition processing machine or software may be coupled to a database that stores information on each of the participants keyed by bib number. In this way all valid bib numbers are known to the recognition system. This data can be used to resolve ambiguous characters in the recognition process. By knowing all valid combinations of characters from the database a most likely solution of the actual characters in an image can be determined quickly. Using any or all of these techniques the system automatically associates a bib number name to a user.

In the case of a video clip additional images immediately adjacent to the one in question can be processed to further assist in disambiguating the bib number. In the example of RFID or other such electronic tag the identifier is acquired at the same time as the photograph and the two are associated together in a suitable Datastore. Even in that case the electronic identifier may be corrupted or incomplete. It too may be recoverable by processing available information in conjunction with the participant database.

In another alternative facial or object recognition software may be included to recognize a person when the bib number is occluded or otherwise not recognized. One technique is to match a picture with another picture in which the same person appears with a readable bib number. Other embodiments may include the following 

1 Having just a bib number in a database a priori capturing a face image from an image in which the bib number is recognized and then using that captured face image to recognize images that contain either the face the bib number or both i.e. in particular recognize images that contain the face regardless of whether the bib number may or may not be unrecognizable. 

2 Having a face image and a bib number in a database a priori and using either or both to recognize images that contain either the face the bib number or both.

3 Having just a face image in a database a priori and then using that to recognize images that include the face image and extracting bib numbers from the image that might then be used to recognize images that contain either the face the bib number or both.

Technology for recognizing faces in still images including video frames is now common and can be used as a building block for identifying people in an image from an event as an alternative to bib number recognition. Because bib number recognition is conceptually simpler than face recognition bib recognition strategies for identifying race participants in a still image might be described and claimed a lower level of algorithmic abstraction than facial recognition strategies. Normative bib recognition strategies would seek to identify digits and group them into bib numbers without reference to any data circumscribing the set of potential bib numbers. Comparative bib recognition strategies in contrast would incorporate the set of potential bib numbers in an event into the recognition algorithm to improve the recognition accuracy.

Due to the computational burden and the conceptual challenge of defining a set of facial attributes that can be easily associated with a user without reference to example images as a bib number can such as when a user registers to participate in an event facial recognition strategies would typically be comparative. That is a target image including one or more individuals would be compared to one or more reference images of single individuals who might be in the target image. Images of an individual participant s face may be located by searching the web to locate media items tagged with the participant s name and downloading them. This comparison could be direct in the sense that the reference images are matched against the target image. The comparison could also be indirect in the sense that a set of reference and potential facial attributes are extracted from the reference and target images respectively and the reference facial attributes then compared to the potential facial attributes for possible matches.

Regardless of the comparison model there are also a couple of possible recognition strategies. One strategy assumes that one or more known reference images are available for each individual that may potentially appear in a target image. Each reference image is compared to the target image to arrive at an estimated confidence value that the person in the reference image appears in the target image.

Another strategy assumes that a name or an equivalent identifier is known for each individual that may potentially appear in a target image and that a library of reference images labeled by name or an equivalent identifier. In this strategy the identifier for each individual that may potentially appear in a target image is used to retrieve images from the reference image library for those individuals. Those reference images are then used as in the first strategy to compute an estimated confidence value that the person in each reference image appears in the target image.

For a given event such as a footrace event data route data and runner data are prepared and stored in digital form for processing as further described below. The data can be organized keyed sorted and or related in various ways but the following simple data structures are illustrative. Additional databases are described later with regard to . Details of data storage systems and memory are known so details are omitted herein. In Table 1 an event database or table is illustrated by way of example and not limitation. The fields are self explanatory. Various searching matching or fuzzy logic techniques can be used in later processing for accessing this database to identify an event for example from a bib number recognized in a submitted photograph. The Participants field preferably is not literally a list of the participants in the event but rather a link to a Participants database discussed below. In a presently preferred embodiment of a system in accordance with the present invention the event database is accessible to a central server system of the type known for hosting an Internet web site.

A participant database also accessible to a central server may include the illustrative data shown in Table 2 below. Users or participants need not be registered in the database prior to the event. In a preferred embodiment participants can be added at any time before during or after a race. Names and bib numbers are automatically associated with the corresponding participant whenever that person s data is entered in the database. So for example a user might access the system after a race introduce an event and bib number and the system can conduct a search or database query and retrieve all of the pictures associated to the new bib number or links to them . A sample race registration database follows in Table 3. Again these various tables may be linked indexed and or associated in various ways.

Additional information may be provided by a participant during registration or subsequently acquired and stored in association with a corresponding participant subsequently. For example a registrant may provide upload an image of herself during a registration process for various uses including facial recognition matching with other media items acquired from other sources.

Routes can be defined in various ways. For example a race organizer may publish a conventional map marked up or annotated to show a race route. Such a map may be stored and distributed for example as a simple pdf file. Details of the route in machine readable form may be embedded in layers of the pdf file. Routes may also be defined by a stored data structure or list for example as a series of locations or waypoints arranged in the sequence of the race route. Waypoints can be defined as landmarks the water fountain at 3d and Iditarod Streets or geo locations such as LAT LON and ALT. This data can be acquired easily with even consumer grade GPS equipment or publicly available databases. Data should be stored in a route database in machine usable form. For example a process should be able to find the closest point along a given event route given an input location. In one embodiment the input location is provided in association with a photo taken along the route. The location of the photo i.e. the geographic location of the scene in the photo content may be provided manually by input by the photographer or automatically as follows.

In some arrangements the Photos field for example may include pointers or UIDs or URL or URI to individual photos or simply a link to a directory linked list etc. Various ways to store and access such data are known to those skilled in computer and Internet technologies. See Table 4 below.

Capture. In operation a computer implemented process carried out in or coupled to a server receives content for example still photos or video clips from input sources . The input sources may be capture devices located along the route of an event. They may be automated remotely controlled or operated by an observer along the route. These remote devices include a digital camera or the like for capturing creating photos or video clips showing participants in action during the event. The devices may be pre positioned or installed at selected locations along the route. Those at fixed locations may be arranged to take photos at predetermined times or intervals. Preferably however the input devices are portable electronic devices such as a PDA Blackberry iPhone gPhone or the like. The operator s of the portable devices along the route Spectators may be friends and family of event participants amateur photographers or any interested individuals.

The remote devices may comprise any device capable of creating a digital image such as a photo or video clip and transmitting a file containing the image content such as a jpeg mpeg or other file format to the server. Preferably the picture file is transmitted over a wireless network to enable the picture taker to be mobile. For example the wireless network may be a 3G wireless telecommunications network. The picture capture and wireless transmission functions may be integrated into a single multi function device or they may be separate devices coupled together for example by cable or a short range wireless link Bluetooth . Photos or other media video clips audio recordings can be uploaded to the server at any time during or after the race.

In addition the server may be arranged to crawl other photo sites such as Flickr to retrieve additional photos associated with the event or with an individual participant. More detail is given below. Other sources are described below with regard to .

In a preferred embodiment a remote device such as a smart phone executes a small application program to implement the functionality described herein. After an image is captured the application manages uploading the image to the server. The application first tags each image with a date time stamp. The application also tags each image with location data for example acquired via a GPS receiver which may be integrated into or coupled to the portable device. Alternatively a user may enter location information manually for tagging a photo. Accordingly during an event the server is receiving image content from a plurality of spectators along the event route in near real time. In another aspect a user may upload media items at his convenience for example from a home computer after the event. This may include for example posting content to Facebook to a Flick account via RSS feed etc.

Many web 2.0 websites like Flickr Facebook Twitter and LinkedIn provide application programming interfaces APIs that allow another website or webservice to access user data. Some embodiments of the present invention make employ such APIs to find and import media items as described herein. There are at least two ways for a second website to access to user data on a first website via an API such as this. In the first method the user provides the user s access credentials to the second website and that second website then retrieves data from the first website by providing the user s credentials to the first website.

In the second method the user typically indicates to the second website he or she has data on the first website the second website then redirects the user client frequently a browser to an authentication means on first website. The user then provides the credentials directly to the first website. The first website authenticates the user and redirects the user s browser back to the second website along with a new credential. The second website then uses the new credential to access the user s data on the first website. FaceBook Connect is a proprietary solution that works in this manner to provide a second website access to a FaceBook user s identity social graph and stream information. LinkedIn uses the OAuth an open source version of this authentication model to provide a second website access to a LinkedIn user s data.

A digital media item sharing service website such as Flickr invariably provides multiple means for a user to find media items of interest contributed by all users. There are at least two ways that are quite common. The first is to allow contributing users to create an account dedicated to a specific topic event or user. In this case the search means simply provides a way for a consuming user to specify identifying information for that dedicated account and then provides the user with access to the content associated with the account.

The second is to allow the contributing and or consuming users to tag media items with labels that describe or identify the items. Such tagging may be done regardless of how items are categorized into accounts. For this case the search means allow the user to specify tags and then provides the user with access to digital media items labeled with that tag. As noted digital media item sharing websites typically also provide APIs that a second website can use to access contributed digital media items using either of these search models.

Various features and aspects of the invention may be implemented in a host computer server virtual server cluster etc. Details of such hardware and related software are known elsewhere. For simplicity we refer herein to a server implementation although that term is used broadly and is not limited to a single host nor is any limitation on its location implied.

Processing Imported Media Items. At the server various processes may be carried out. They may be done roughly in the order shown below although in some embodiments certain processes may be executed concurrently. In some embodiments some steps may be omitted. For larger systems or large events distributed processing clusters or other forms or parallel processing may be advantageous.

In an embodiment the pictures are tagged automatically with a timestamp in the server block . Pictures may include a timestamp applied by the capture device but they may not be accurate. Pictures also may be tagged with a location. For example in an embodiment the capture device may include a GPS receiver and the application may include location data acquired from the GPS in the picture upload. In an alternative a marker with a number or other symbol may be placed along the route and the picture taken at such a location so that the symbol appears in the picture available for machine recognition and lookup to determine the location at which the picture was taken. The pictures are uploaded to a server block . Further with regard to the server identifies the bib number in the picture using various means including but not limited to those described above or equivalents thereof block . For images where bib number recognition proves difficult those images may be off loaded to an alternative process which may be more capable of recognition but at a higher computational cost.

As noted earlier the server has access to a database of events block . For example in one embodiment the database includes for each event the corresponding location start time and route illustrated at block and the table above. Then the server at block matches the picture location and time against the database of events. This may not be a separate step. In some embodiments the event may be determined by the bib number. In an alternative embodiment the event may be identified explicitly by the spectator or in picture metadata provided by the portable application.

At block the server software then places the picture at the corresponding location along the route. The photos can be located along the route by using spectators and system devices that have GPS capability. Alternatively a location along a route may be described by a street intersection landmark name or other keyword s or mile km marker on the route. An example is illustrated in . In a map display indicates the event route by color boldface etc. A photo shown in thumbnail is graphically associated to a location on the route by dashed line . The picture may be sized as appropriate for display on the route map. Additional information may be displayed by clicking an indicator i at . For example a click at may present another panel to display various information associated with the photo. Or just mousing over the photo may invoke the supplemental panel. The panel preferably includes the user bib number event time and location data associated with the photo. The participant may select whether or not to publish her name on a public site. In an embodiment an option to purchase a photo may be invoked for example by clicking a purchase button P . Terms of purchase are discussed later. This is just one example of various output content further described below.

Referring again to in an embodiment the server may assemble multiple pictures of the same participant into a set block . The digital images need not be physically or literally assembled in memory but merely associated in the database for example using tags pointers links or lists or other software techniques. As discussed below these images or video may be aggregated from a variety of external sources such a social networking sites. This has the advantage of bringing a more egalitarian perspective as distinguished from traditional professional sports reporting or network news casting. See sample image lookup table below. These sets of pictures alone or with other content may be published or distributed so that they are available to interested users for example via the Internet. They may also be displayed for example in the form of a slideshow on one or more video display screens. The video displays may be located at remote locations and or at the event forum finish line etc. Preferably a very large display is visible to a large audience. Audio may be provided as well collected in a manner similar to that described below for aggregating visual photo and video media items.

The specific location data of each image may be associated to a chart map or digital image of the course. See . In one embodiment each image of a selected participant is associated to a specific location along the course. Other output content can be created and published as explained below. For example referring again to output content may include individual images sets comprising all images of a selected participant or a selected group of participants or images of all participants at a given location along the event route. Other output content may comprise team image sets route map composites for example as in image sets by location video output and other versions of map outputs . Video content can be selected and organized in much the same manner as still photos.

Any or all such output content can be published at an event web site or via each user s personal space at a social networking site and or via the user s personal feed or personal site or to a community electronic display screen . Access to various external sites may be effected by use of various API s or by using a participant s login credentials provided at registration. is a simplified illustration of a personal web site of a runner to which generated output content of a running event has been published.

In another aspect images are accessed through in interactive graphic or map of the event route see drawing rather than a textual presentation. In other aspects the system can sort images by timestamp to form a timeline. The timeline can show images of one or more selected participants. The corresponding images can be published as an attractive slideshow . In another embodiment the disclosed system can associate the timeline with course distances mileposts landmarks. Such information also can be used to search for or browse images. In another embodiment the pictures could be published in a feed produced by the photographer or by all the photographers collectively on the site for consumption by others too. The foregoing examples are merely illustrative of the inventive concepts and are not intended to be limiting of its scope. Other details and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this disclosure.

Bookmarking and social networking sites such as Reddit Facebook Stumbleupon Blinklist Manolia Digg Delicious Newsvine Furl and Strands are known. At these web sites users can share content with others e.g. authorized friends comment on other postings etc. Internet Feeds such as RSS are becoming common as well. RSS Rich Site Summary or Really Simple Syndication is a format for delivering regularly changing web content. Many news related sites weblogs and other online publishers syndicate their content as an RSS Feed to whoever wants it. RSS feeds thus provide a relatively spam free quick and efficient way to read news and weblogs. The present invention in a preferred embodiment integrates into a user s outbound feed for sharing personal sporting event content in a compelling and timely manner. Such content may include but is not limited to data text graphics images still or video links etc.

In one embodiment the present service server creates an RSS feed of items each of which includes a URL for the pictures stored on the server and the runner s Strands.com or other site system is directed to monitor that RSS feed. In this case in effect the URLs RSS feed items for all pictures would be going to each user s account that is monitoring the feed. In another embodiment the server might create an RSS feed for each runner and the runner s Strands.com or other social networking account would just monitor the RSS feed for that runner. The server then would put the picture in the right feed for the runner and the runner s Strands.com account would then only be receiving URLs RSS feed items for pictures for that runner. Of course for the pictures to actually be displayed to the runner in this model the Strands.com system would have to look at the URLs in the feed items and request the pictures from the server for display to the runner.

In another embodiment for example to interface with a FaceBook or similar account the server may use one of the FaceBook APIs and would employ the user s FaceBook credentials to publish the pictures to the user s FaceBook account. These postings are not necessarily limited to only pictures. For example a URL may be provided that links to a map or graphic of the event course as mentioned above. That map in turn may include images or it may be interactive in the sense of presenting links to individual images preferably associated with specific locations along the course as discussed above.

Conversely feeds from an external site e.g. Flickr may be used to import content to the present system. In general the aforementioned and other Web 2.0 technologies can interface with elements of the present invention to enable and enhance interaction among athletes and the broader community. This aggregation feature is illustrated in .

In another embodiment a user account may be established at Flickr or another media item sharing site for a specific event. Media items associated with that event can then be uploaded from various sources for example participants or spectators to the corresponding site again using Flickr as an example without limitation. The server system can be configured to download media items from that site. Since the site is event specific correlation to the event is inherent. API access is described above.

Referring again to members also can interact with the server with the use of an appropriate interface. The term members is used here to mean users who are registered with the website and therefore have corresponding log in credentials. Members may also be participants in a given event. In the server the various media items imported through interfaces are processed in a bib number facial image matching process described in more detail above. Next various data processes take place block including associating bib numbers with corresponding photos other media items locations along a route photographers etc. In this regard the server may include or have access to an event registration service . Event registration data bases are discussed above.

The data processing module block is enabled in part through access to various data bases. This is accomplished through a data base maintenance block which may include various known database maintenance and or query techniques and services. The server has access through appropriate interfaces to an events and participants data base aspects of which were discussed above. It also has access to a data base member accounts which may include various personal data preferences history etc.

Another data base stores photographer accounts. In this regard photographers may establish an account in order to upload their photos associated with a corresponding event s for distribution through the server . In this regard the server may include a media online sales service which enables users through the public interface to search for photos or other media view thumbnail images etc. Users may then elect to purchase media items for download from the media item data store through the online sales service . The sales service implements terms of sales that are determined in the photographers account settings in database for example pricing format conversion resolution delivery options. There may also be provision for copyright licensing granted by the photographer through the web server. These features may relieve photographers from the burden of building their own sites for direct content sales. The present site may be expected to attract a wide audience well beyond the actual event participants with the corresponding potential for more sales than a photographer might achieve marketing directly to the participants alone. That said in another embodiment the server may provide a link to the photographer s site as illustrated in the panel of the map display of . Users may follow the link and purchase the corresponding photograph. A commission may be returned to the site proprietor in consideration of the referral. Returning to Member services block provides typical services for members such as registration and maintenance of user accounts.

A key aspect of the server is the distribution services which may be implemented using any appropriate website software technology. The distribution services provides an interface for interested persons especially participants to explore the media items and information regarding events of interest that have been aggregated by the server system from a variety of external sources such as those mentioned above. Users of the website can conveniently search for events of interest or participants of interest. They may explore the route for example using an interactive map such as that illustrated in to identify locations of interest and corresponding photographs or other media items. Users may also explore race recap and results information. Other aspects of the distribution services were discussed above with regard to . In another aspect the community generated content described above can be assembled sorted filtered and distributed into any existing Web 2.0 application.

It will be obvious to those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

