---

title: Nanoscale switching device
abstract: A nanoscale switching device comprises a first electrode of a nanoscale width; a second electrode of a nanoscale width; an active region disposed between the first and second electrodes, the active region containing a switching material; an area within the active region that constrains current flow between the first electrode and the second electrode to a central portion of the active region; and an interlayer dielectric layer formed of a dielectric material and disposed between the first and second electrodes outside the active region. A nanoscale crossbar array and method of forming the nanoscale switching device are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09040948&OS=09040948&RS=09040948
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09040948
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100916
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is related to application Serial Number PCT US2010 029423 filed Mar. 31 2010 which uses a metal oxide bit encapsulating coating to minimize parasitic resistance and eliminate sidewall shorts.

Significant research and development efforts are currently directed towards designing and manufacturing nanoscale electronic devices such as nanoscale memories. Nanoscale electronics promises significant advances including significantly reduced features sizes and the potential for self assembly and for other relatively inexpensive non photolithography based fabrication methods. However the design and manufacture of nanoscale electronic devices present many new challenges.

For instance nanoscale devices using switching materials such as titanium oxide that show resistive switching behavior have recently been reported. The switching behavior of such devices has been linked to the memristor circuit element theory originally predicted in 1971 by L. O. Chua. The discovery of the memristive behavior in the nanoscale switches has generated significant interest and there are substantial on going research efforts to further develop such nanoscale switches and to implement them in various applications. One of the many important potential applications is to use such switching devices as memory units to store digital data in which an active region is sandwiched between two electrodes. A memory device may be constructed as an array of such switching devices in a crossbar configuration to provide a very high device density. There are however technical challenges that have to be addressed in order to make the switching devices useful for actual applications. One significant issue is how to maintain the switching characteristics of the switching devices over multiple ON OFF cycles to provide a reasonably long operation life.

In the construction of nanoscale crossbar memory an active region is disposed between first and second electrodes each of nanoscale width. The active region contains a switching material. In some examples an interlayer dielectric layer formed of a dielectric material is disposed between the first and second electrodes outside the active region.

There is an equivalent parasitic capacitance Cand parasitic resistance R in parallel between neighboring active regions not shown in but depicted in . Potential issues that may arise with this construction include sidewall conduction leakage paths between adjacent bits unreliable bit conduction paths along the device boundaries and variability in device properties.

In the embodiment shown in the cladding layer surrounds the active region and extends in height from at least the bottom electrode to the top electrode . In this way the protective cladding layer isolates or shields the active region from the interlayer dielectric layer and prevents the switching material from contacting and or chemically interacting with the dielectric material of the interlayer dielectric layer. The protective cladding layer may be formed of a non conducting cladding material that is chemically stable and unreactive to the switching material and substantially impervious to the dopants in the switching material. As used herein the term impervious means that the dopants cannot migrate through the cladding material under normal operating conditions. In this regard the interlayer dielectric typically is selected to have a low dielectric constant so that the capacitance of the device will be low to allow a faster access time. Such dielectric materials however may have the tendency to chemically interact with the switching material. The cladding material in contrast is selected to be substantially chemically inert. Thus the dopants in the switching material are confined in the active region and cannot be lost or gained through the protective cladding layer .

By way of example when the switching material comprising the active region is TiO the switching material is described in greater detail below the dopants are oxygen vacancies. The material comprising the cladding layer in this case may be hafnium oxide HfO which is a thermodynamically more stable oxide and thus is effective in preventing oxygen vacancies or oxygen from moving away from the TiOswitching material. Other examples of usable cladding materials include zirconium oxide ZrO magnesium oxide MgO calcium oxide CaO aluminum oxide AlO etc. In contrast the dielectric material forming the interlayer dielectric layer is different from the cladding material and may be for example an oxide nitride or carbide such as silicon oxide SiO silicon nitride SiN silicon carbon nitride SiCN silicon oxynitride SiON etc. The interlayer dielectric layer usually has a low dielectric constant. For example the dielectric constant may be 4 or less.

The current flow constraining area may be obtained in a variety of ways such as plasma oxidation using oxygen gas.

As a consequence of employing the current flow constraining area the following problems are solved minimization of the effect of parasitic resistance by isolating bits elimination of shorts running down the sidewalls obtaining current confinement at the center of the bit modulation of the dielectric constant along the radial direction less lossy as one moves outwards and a decrease in current and consequently operating power and an increase in endurance.

Each of the top electrode and bottom electrode may have a width that is on the nanoscale. As used hereinafter the term nanoscale means the object has one or more dimensions smaller than one micrometer and in some examples less than 500 nanometers and often less than 100 nanometers. For example the electrodes and may have a width in the range of 5 nm to 500 nm. Likewise the active region may have a height that is on the nanoscale and typically from a few nanometers to tens of nanometers.

The word line bit line and electrodes and are electrically conductive but may be formed of different materials. In this example the word line and bit line are for providing high conductivity or low resistance and may be formed for example by a Cu damascene process or Al conductor process. The electrodes and may be formed of a conductive material selected to prevent the material of the word line or bit line from interacting with the switching material and may be a metal such as platinum gold copper tantalum tungsten etc. metallic compounds such as titanium nitride tungsten nitride etc. or doped semiconductor materials. In some other examples the electrodes and may provide sufficient conductance and the word line and bit line may not be necessary.

In the example shown in the top electrode extends at an angle to the bottom electrode . The angle may be for example around 90 degrees but may be of other values depending on the device design. As the top and bottom electrodes and are on different height levels and the active region occupies generally only the area of overlap between the electrodes structural support is needed for the top electrode . To that end the space under the top electrode and outside the active region may be largely filled with a dielectric material to form the interlayer dielectric layer . The interlayer dielectric layer provides structural support and also electrically insulates the electrodes and . It also isolates the switching device from any adjacent switching devices.

To facilitate a better understanding of the issues addressed by the invention the components and operation principles of the switching device in one example are described with reference to . As shown in the active region disposed between the top electrode and bottom electrode contains a switching material. The switching material is capable of carrying a species of mobile ionic dopants such that the dopants can be controllably transported through the switching material and redistributed to change the electrical properties of either the switching material or the interface of the switching material and an electrode which in the illustrated example of may be the top electrode . This ability to change the electrical properties as a function of dopant distribution allows the switching device to be placed in different switching states by applying a switching voltage from a voltage source to the electrodes and .

Generally the switching material may be electronically semiconducting or nominally insulating and a weak ionic conductor. Many different materials with their respective suitable dopants can be used as the switching material. Materials that exhibit suitable properties for switching include oxides sulfides selenides nitrides carbides phosphides arsenides chlorides and bromides of transition and rare earth metals. Suitable switching materials also include elemental semiconductors such as Si and Ge and compound semiconductors such as III V and II VI compound semiconductors. The III V semiconductors include for instance BN BP BSb AlP AlSb GaAs GaP GaN InN InP InAs and InSb and ternary and quaternary compounds. The II VI compound semiconductors include for instance CdSe CdS CdTe ZnSe ZnS ZnO and ternary compounds. The II VI compound switching materials may also include phase change materials. The switching materials may also include filament structures such as a Si Ag that has Ag filaments in an a Si matrix. These listings of possible switching materials are not exhaustive and do not restrict the scope of the present invention.

The dopant species used to alter the electrical properties of the switching material depends on the particular type of switching material chosen and may be cations anions or vacancies or impurities as electron donors or acceptors. For instance in the case of a transition metal oxide such as TiO the dopant species may be oxygen vacancies V . For GaN the dopant species may be nitride vacancies or sulfide ion dopants. For compound semiconductors the dopants may be n type or p type impurities or metal filamentary inclusions.

By way of example as illustrated in the switching material may be TiO and the dopants may be oxygen vacancies V . When a DC switching voltage from the voltage source is applied to the top and bottom electrodes and an electric field is created across the active region . This electric field if of sufficient strength and proper polarity may drive the oxygen vacancies to drift through the switching material in the active region towards the top electrode thereby turning the device in an ON state.

If the polarity of the electric field is reversed the oxygen vacancies may drift in an opposite direction across the active region and away from the top electrode thereby turning the device in an OFF state. In this way the switching is reversible and may be repeated. Due to the relatively large electric field needed to cause dopant drifting after the switching voltage is removed the locations of the dopants remain stable in the switching material. In other words the switching may be non volatile.

The state of the switching device may be read by applying a read voltage from the voltage source to the top and bottom electrodes and to sense the resistance across these two electrodes. The read voltage is typically much lower than the switching voltage required to cause drifting of the ionic dopants in the active region so that the read operation does not alter the ON OFF state of the switching device.

The switching behavior described above may be based on different mechanisms. In one mechanism the switching behavior may be an interface phenomenon. For instance in the illustrated example of initially with a low concentration of oxygen vacancies in the TiOswitching material near the top electrode the interface of the switching material and the top electrode may behave like a Schottky barrier with an electronic barrier that is difficult for electrons to go through. Similarly the interface of the switching material and the bottom electrode may also behave like a Schottky barrier with a flow direction opposite to that of the Schottky like barrier at the top electrode . As a result the device has a relatively high resistance in either flow direction. When a switching voltage is applied to the top and bottom electrodes and to turn the device ON with the top electrode as the negative side the oxygen vacancies drift towards the top electrodes . The increased concentration of dopants near the top electrode changes the electrical property of the interface from one like a Schottky barrier to one like an Ohmic contact with a significantly reduced electronic barrier height or width. As a result electrons can tunnel through the interface much more easily and the switching device is now in the ON state with a significantly reduced overall resistance for a current flowing from the bottom electrode to the top electrode .

In another mechanism the reduction of the resistance of the active region may be a bulk property of the switching material. The redistribution of the dopant level in the switching material causes the resistance across the switching material to fall and this may account for the decrease of the resistance of the device between the top and bottom electrodes and . It is also possible that the resistance change is the result of a combination of both the bulk and interface mechanisms. Even though there may be different mechanisms for explaining the switching behavior it should be noted that the present invention does not rely on or depend on any particular mechanism for validation and the scope of the invention is not restricted by which switching mechanism is actually at work.

As can be seen from the above description the redistribution of dopants in the switching material in the active region may be responsible for the switching behavior of the switching device. If the amount of dopants in the active region is altered in an unintended way the switching characteristics of the device may be changed uncontrollably. One possible mechanism for undesired dopant amount alteration is the diffusion of the dopants from the switching material into the surrounding materials or the reaction of the switching material or the dopants with the surrounding materials. It has been observed by the inventors that when a transition metal oxide such as TiO is used as the switching material a substantial change in the amount of oxygen vacancies can occur over time if the switching material is in direct contact with the interlayer dielectric layer which is typically formed of silicon oxide silicon nitride or silicon carbon nitride. Due to the small volume of the switching material in the active region of the switching device and the relatively low concentration of the dopants even a small amount of dopant loss or gain can have significant impacts on the switching characteristics of the device. The device may even lose its ability to switch if the dopant amount is changed too much or the edge of the device may be made conducting by the change in the dopant amount at the edge.

This problem of dopant change is effectively solved by the inclusion of the radially varying oxygen profile in the nanoscale switching device .

The sidewalls of the active region are oxidized to generate the radially varying profile . The oxidation may be performed for example using plasma oxidation at the end of the plasma etch process that defines the bits . The resultant structure is shown in . The oxidation may also be performed by annealing in oxidizing environment or combining oxygen plasma with heating.

A layer of dielectric material is then deposited over the structure of and an electro chemical planarizing CMP process is used to flatten the dielectric layer and to expose the top of the active region step as shown in . A top electrode is then formed over the active region and the interlayer dielectric layer step and a bit line in the form of a relatively thick conductive layer is formed over the top electrode step as shown in . This step may include depositing a layer of electrode material over the active region and the dielectric layer patterning the top electrode and etching away excess electrode material to form the top electrode . The method of described above is only an example of how to form a switching device with the cladding layer and other methods may be used to form such a structure.

Multiple nanoscale switching devices each with a protective cladding layer may be formed into a crossbar array for various applications. shows an example of a two dimensional array of such switching devices. The array has a first group of generally parallel nanowires in a top layer and a second group of generally parallel nanowires in a bottom layer. The nanowires in the first group run in a first direction and the nanowires in the second group run in a second direction at an angle such as 90 degrees from the first direction. The two layers of nanowires form a two dimensional crossbar structure with each nanowire in the top layer intersecting a plurality of the nanowires of the bottom layer. A nanoscale switching device may be formed at each intersection of the nanowires in this crossbar structure. The switching device has a nanowire of the first group as its top electrode and a nanowire of the second group as its bottom electrode. An active region containing a switching material is disposed between the top and bottom nanowires and . Although not visible in the active region includes the radially varying oxygen profile.

The space between the top and bottom layers outside the active region of the nanoscale switching device may be filled with a dielectric material to form an interlayer dielectric layer which for clarity of illustration is not explicitly shown in .

The electrodes and may be square or rectangular in cross section as shown in the various figures. However other cross sectional shapes such as circular ovoid and others may also be employed.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these details. While the invention has been disclosed with respect to a limited number of examples those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover such modifications and variations as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

