---

title: Network selection methods and apparatus with use of a master service management module and a prioritized list of multiple aggregator service profiles
abstract: A communication device is configured to store one or more aggregator service application modules for use in accessing one or more different aggregator services. Each aggregator service offers access through a plurality of offered wireless networks identified by a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. The communication device maintains a prioritized list of profiles which include one or more aggregator service profiles associated with the one or more aggregator services. A scanning operation is performed for identifying one or more available wireless networks in a geographic area of the device, for producing a scan list of one or more available wireless network identifiers corresponding to the one or more available wireless networks. One of the aggregator service profiles is selected from the prioritized list, causing one of the aggregator service application modules corresponding to the selected profile to be invoked. The invoked module causes one of the available wireless network identifiers from the scan list that matches one of the offered wireless network identifiers to be selected, if such matching identifier exists. A connection is established with one of the available wireless networks corresponding to the selected available wireless network identifier, for accessing a selected aggregator service corresponding to the selected aggregator service profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09107142&OS=09107142&RS=09107142
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09107142
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100818
---
The present disclosure relates generally to techniques for use in providing access to aggregator services for a mobile communication device via a wireless network such as via a wireless local area network WLAN hotspot or similar environment.

A mobile communication device may obtain communication services in wireless communication networks such as wireless local area networks WLANs which are based on IEEE 802.11 based communication standards. Throughout operation the mobile device may exit and enter many different WLANs. To assist in selecting from these networks the mobile device may utilize a prioritized list of network identifications.

The mobile device may encounter a WLAN which may be a hotspot which provides a captive portal. Here a user login or other user response will be required prior to the mobile device obtaining any useful services via the WLAN hotspot. With laptop computers users often intend to use and surf the Internet interacting with the keyboard of the laptop computer to invoke a Web browser application when desired. When the Web browser application is opened the request is detected which causes a request for a server site to be sent in order to receive data of a desired website. However the request is typically redirected by a WLANs hotspot for user login after which the mobile device will obtain service assuming the authentication is positive. For mobile devices which are intended primarily for voice telephony e.g. cell phones electronic mail e mail communications and or other push type data communications login is also required.

The popularity of Internet access through WLANs hotspots has led to the emergence of a new kind of entity a hotspot aggregator. A hotspot aggregator provides wireless Internet access to its customers by renting a WLAN connection to the Internet i.e. the WLAN hotspot from a plurality of hotspot owners e.g. at coffee shops hotels and airports . In contrast to an ordinary telecommunications entity a hotspot aggregator does not necessarily own the access networks but rather relies on a network of independently owned and operated WLANs hotspots. Examples of current hotspot aggregators are Boingo and iPass.

One or more aggregator services may be offered in a single WLAN hotspot and in any given WLAN hotspot some aggregator services may be made offered while others may not be. A WLAN hotspot may utilize only a single Set Service Identifier SSID for identification and it may not be readily apparent to roaming mobile devices what particular aggregator service is provided in any particular WLAN hotspot. Traditionally an aggregator provides client software to install in the mobile device to aid in finding the appropriate WLANs and signing in for service. Locally stored directories of WLAN hotspot locations and details may be provided e.g. which SSIDs are supported which requires some type of network connection for updates. The existing ways of obtaining service are specific to each particular aggregator. For example each WLAN hotspot may require a different way of logging in for access e.g. different web sites for login .

Typically after installation conventional client software seizes and maintains control over the WLAN selection mechanism of the mobile device which is utilized for selecting and connecting to an appropriate WLAN. There is little flexibility for a conventional mobile device to be able to utilize multiple aggregator services in an easy and efficient manner.

Accordingly what are needed are methods and apparatus which overcome these and other related deficiencies of the prior art. Other types of networks and devices may experience the same or similar deficiencies.

Network selection methods and apparatus for communication devices utilizing a master service management module and a prioritized list of multiple aggregator service profiles for accessing multiple aggregator services are described herein. A communication device is configured to store one or more aggregator service application modules for use in accessing one or more different aggregator services. Each aggregator service offers access through a plurality of offered wireless networks identified by a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. The communication device maintains a prioritized list of profiles which include one or more aggregator service profiles associated with the one or more aggregator services. A scanning operation is performed for identifying one or more available wireless networks in a geographic area of the device for producing a scan list of one or more available wireless network identifiers corresponding to the one or more available wireless networks. One of the aggregator service profiles is selected from the prioritized list causing one of the aggregator service application modules corresponding to the selected profile to be invoked. The invoked module causes one of the available wireless network identifiers from the scan list that matches one of the offered wireless network identifiers provided via the aggregator service application module to be selected if such matching identifier exists. A connection is established with one of the available wireless networks corresponding to the selected available wireless network identifier for accessing a selected aggregator service corresponding to the selected aggregator service profile.

To illustrate one exemplary network architecture shows a representation of a communication system having a wireless local area network WLAN within which a mobile communication device may operate. WLAN has a plurality of wireless access points APs and for wireless communications with mobile device . In the present embodiment WLAN and mobile device operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards. Such WLANs are identifiable by a mobile device from a Set Service Identifier SSID or Extended SSID ESSID . WLAN also includes one or more servers a redirect server and a gateway . Server may provide data applications and or functionality for communication services in WLAN .

Mobile device may also operate on different WLANs such as WLAN . Similar to WLAN WLAN has a plurality of wireless APs and one or more servers and a gateway . In this embodiment WLAN is a private communication network of an enterprise small company corporation etc. associated with mobile device .

Such WLANs and may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the WLANs may provide for access to Internet via the Web browser application or voice telephony communication services with use of Voice over IP VoIP communications or other techniques. Note that some communication applications utilized by terminals such as VoIP applications require the use of SIP. SIP is well documented in standard documents such as Request For Comments RFC 3261.

For push type data or message synchronization services mobile device is enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server e.g. server or for user data of an application associated with a user account. The application of mobile device and the server may be or include for example an electronic mail e mail application program for the communication of e mail messages. In this case the data synchronization is a message synchronization for the e mail messages associated with the user account for an e mail application program. The data synchronization may alternatively or additionally be or include an address book synchronization for address book contacts in an address book organizer or a calendar appointment synchronization for calendar appointments in a calendar application program. These and other applications of mobile device are also identified later in relation to . For the data synchronized communications the server maintains storage of a mapping of a user account name or identifier of the user account with a personal identification number of mobile device . When communications are required with mobile device the personal identification number is used to route the messages to from mobile device through communication system .

In contrast to WLAN WLAN may be a public WiFi hotspot for public use and include what is referred to as a captive portal or walled garden. For devices connected in WLAN via one of wireless APs and gateway is configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality as well as to permit or deny external access outside of WLAN to Internet . To do this gateway has a set of IP address filters which define a set of addresses that are permissible impermissible if any at all for access by devices. Access by a device depends on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

Typically when a request by a device in WLAN is made prior to proper authorization gateway is configured to redirect the request to redirect server . In response redirect server is configured to respond to mobile device to provide data for producing information e.g. a Web page information which is rendered in a visual display of mobile device via a Web browser application. The information may solicit a user response. For example the information may solicit a user registration or login with user fields for entering a user name and or password information. As another example the information may solicit a user payment with user payment fields for entering in user payment information. Further the information may solicit a user acceptance of terms of use a license or a legal disclaimer options of YES or NO or ACCEPT or DECLINE . Redirect server may be referred to by a different name depending on any more specific purpose e.g. authentication server registration server user confirmation server etc. .

The user will enter a user response via the Web browser application for example which is sent by mobile device and received by gateway . Gateway identifies whether the received user response is sufficient e.g. whether the user name and password match prestored user name and password information whether the user payment is accepted whether the user acceptance is confirmed etc. . If the user response is deemed sufficient gateway permits access to the data applications and or functionality in or outside of WLAN .

Again in contrast to WLAN WLAN may be a private communication network of an enterprise associated with mobile device . For devices attempting to access WLAN via Internet gateway is configured to accept or reject access requests external to the network. Functions of gateway may be or include authentication security QoS functions account management and redirection.

As described earlier the popularity of Internet access through hotspots has led to the emergence of a new kind of entity namely a hotspot aggregator. In general a hotspot aggregator provides wireless Internet access to its customers by renting a WLAN connection to the Internet i.e. a WLAN hotspot from hotspot owners e.g. at coffee shops hotels and airports . In contrast to an ordinary telecommunications entity a hotspot aggregator does not necessarily own the access networks but rather relies on a network of independently owned and operated access networks. Examples of current hotspot aggregators are Boingo and iPass.

In a plurality of hotspot aggregator networks and associated with different hotspot aggregators are shown. Each aggregator network and is communicatively coupled to the Internet . The number of different hotspot aggregators shown in is two 2 however any suitable number greater than two 2 may be available in practice. For illustration aggregator network may be associated with an aggregator named Boingo and provide Boingo service through use of one or more servers and aggregator network may be associated with an aggregator named iPass and provide iPass service through use of one or more servers . Each aggregator has relationships with one or more different entities that provide wireless service access at a plurality of different hotspots or hotspot locations. Each aggregator may provide a different type of aggregator service for mobile devices typically however each aggregator may offer at least Internet access via a plurality of hotspots. Servers and may be adapted to provide or otherwise facilitate the aggregator service for the mobile devices performing functions such as authenticating for service monitoring service billing functions providing service information or subscription information subscribing new mobile devices or users and or managing subscriptions and subscription information to name a few.

Another service which may be provided may be based on Generic Access Network GAN technologies. Using GAN based technologies mobile device may also access communication services from a core network of a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN e.g. cellular . GAN technology may provide amongst other things a voice communication service for mobile device via the WLAN hotspot. PLMN includes a core network a plurality of base station controllers such as a base station controller BSC coupled to core network and a plurality of base stations such as a base station BS and a base station coupled to associated BSCs . Core network BSC and BS operate in a conventional fashion as well documented. Other PLMNs in the environment have a similar or the same architecture as PLMN . Such environments may be referred to as cellular telecommunications networks.

Communications between WLAN and core network of PLMN may be facilitated through a suitable connecting network such as a broadband wide area IP communication network e.g. the Internet or any suitable public or private wide area network. Gateway controller or GAN controller GANC is provided between the Internet and core network of PLMN in order to facilitate access to core network by terminals through alternative links e.g. radio links wireless APs and different than those conventional radio links offered in the PLMN e.g. radio links of base stations and . Thus mobile device may also access services of core network of PLMN via WLANs such as WLAN through use of a WLAN radio interface as opposed to a cellular telephony interface. For such communications GANC and mobile device are adapted to establish and maintain a secure tunnel connection between each other through the intervening networks. Note that WLAN may be operator controlled or provided e.g. controlled or provided by the operator associated with PLMN user controlled or provided e.g. controlled or provided by the end user of mobile device or third party controlled or provided. Again GANC operates in accordance with GAN based technology formerly known as Unlicensed Mobile Access UMA and may be or include GANC formerly known as UMA Network Controller or UNC or the like. Finally note that mobile device may be a wireless handset of the dual mode type having both WLAN and cellular WWAN radio interfaces. Thus mobile device may access services of core network of PLMN with use of its cellular radio interface as well as access services via WLANs with use of its WLAN radio interface.

Referring now to electrical components of a typical mobile communication device e.g. a mobile station mobile terminal or user equipment UE or the like which operates with wireless APs of communication system of will be described. Mobile device may be representative of one or more terminals shown and described in relation to . Mobile device may be a two way communication device having at least voice and or advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other computer systems. Also mobile device may be a wireless communication device which operates in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standards. Depending on the functionality provided by mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular type telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities .

As shown in mobile device is adapted to wirelessly communicate with wireless APs of WLANs such as AP of WLAN of . For communication with AP mobile device utilizes a communication subsystem . Depending on the type of device mobile device may also be adapted to wirelessly communicate with other systems such as cellular telecommunication systems. With such configuration mobile device may be referred to as a dual mode mobile device. Although mobile device may have separate and independent subsystems for these purposes at least some portions or components of these otherwise different subsystems may be shared where possible.

Communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more e.g. embedded or internal antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a baseband BB and media access control MAC processing module . Communication subsystem may be or referred to as a radio frequency RF transceiver or wireless transceiver. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communications the particular design of communication subsystem depends on the communication network in which mobile device is intended to operate. In the present disclosure communication subsystem including its associated processor processing components are operative in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

Mobile device may send and receive communication signals through the network after required network procedures have been completed. Signals received by antenna through the network are input to receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and like and in example shown in analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in BB MAC processing module . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by BB MAC processing module . These processed signals are input to transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission through the network via antenna . BB MAC processing module not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. Note that receiver and transmitter may share one or more antennas through an antenna switch not shown in instead of having two separate dedicated antennas and as shown.

Since mobile device may be a handheld portable battery powered device it also includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Such a battery provides electrical power to most if not all electrical circuitry in mobile device and battery interface provides for a mechanical and electrical connection for it. Battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown in that provides a regulated voltage V to all of the circuitry.

Mobile device includes a microprocessor one type of processor or controller that controls overall operation of mobile device . This control includes the network selection techniques of the present disclosure. Communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through communication subsystem . Microprocessor also interacts with additional device subsystems such as a display a flash memory a random access memory RAM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a serial port a keyboard a speaker a microphone a short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated at . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as keyboard and display for example may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. Keyboard may be a complete alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. On the other hand keyboard and display may be replaced or enhanced with a touch screen display or other suitable input mechanism or replaced or enhanced with a voice activated input module.

Operating system software used by microprocessor may be stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM . Microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on mobile device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and or voice communication applications will normally be installed on mobile device during its manufacture. This includes applications or modules which are configured to perform the network selection techniques of the present disclosure. For this reason microprocessor and any other processor s or modules of mobile device may enable execution of particular applications or modules for performing enhanced network selection techniques for access to multiple aggregator services.

Another application that may be loaded onto mobile device may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to user such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network. In one embodiment PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the wireless device user s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system thereby creating a mirrored host computer on mobile device with respect to such items. This is especially advantageous where the host computer system is the wireless device user s office computer system. Additional applications may also be loaded onto mobile device through network an auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in RAM or a non volatile store not shown for execution by microprocessor . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using mobile device .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by communication subsystem and input to microprocessor . Microprocessor may further process the signal for output to display or alternatively to auxiliary I O device . A user of mobile device may also compose data items for example using keyboard in conjunction with display and possibly auxiliary I O device . In accordance with the present techniques microprocessor may process outgoing message requests and incoming responses described later in relation to whether or not such processing is part of the Web browser application. The composed items may be transmitted over a communication network through communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals would be output to speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through speaker display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information as some examples.

Serial port in is normally implemented in a personal digital assistant PDA type communication device for which synchronization with a user s desktop computer is a desirable albeit optional component. Serial port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication. Short range communications subsystem of is an additional optional component that provides for communication between mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a BLUETOOH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices. BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc.

Referring ahead now to what is shown is an illustrative representation of an exemplary user interface of mobile device of which includes at least display keyboard speaker microphone and a cursor or view positioning mechanism such as a positioning wheel e.g. a scrollwheel or a trackball . Although shown enlarged in for clarity this mobile communication device is sized to be a handheld portable device. As an alternative to or in addition to positioning wheel and or trackball a wide range of one or more pointing or cursor view positioning mechanisms such as a touch pad a joystick button a mouse a touchscreen a tablet or other whether presently known or unknown may be employed. The cursor may be or include a pointer a movable item or other visual cue used to mark a position or point to another item on a display in order to for example indicate position for data entry or for selection of the other item.

Keys of keyboard are disposed on a front face of a housing and positioning wheel is disposed at a side of housing . Keyboard is in the example form of a reduced QWERTY keyboard including a plurality of keys that serve as input members. It can be seen that the arrangement of the characters on keys of keyboard is generally of the QWERTY arrangement albeit with many of keys including two of characters . In the example depiction of keyboard many of keys include two characters such as including a first character and a second character assigned thereto. Characters may include letters digits symbols and the like and can additionally include ideographic characters components thereof and the like. One of keys of keyboard includes as the characters thereof the letters Q and W and an adjacent key includes as the characters thereof the letters E and R . Keyboard may be of other configurations such as an AZERTY keyboard a QWERTZ keyboard a Dvorak keyboard or other keyboard or keypad arrangement and either reduced or not reduced i.e. full . In a full or non reduced keyboard or keypad arrangement each key has a single letter not multiple letters of the alphabet assigned to it.

Among keys of keyboard are a key and an key . The key wherein for example may be a symbol or may be the word next provided e.g. printed on the key may be pressed to provide a selection input to the processor and provides substantially the same selection input as is provided by a rotational input of positioning wheel . Since key is provided adjacent a number of other keys of keyboard the user can provide a selection input to the processor substantially without moving the user s hands away from the keyboard during a text entry operation. Another key the key is disposed on the side of housing adjacent positioning wheel although the same or similar key may be disposed as part of keyboard . Among keys of the keyboard additionally is a key that can be provided to delete a text entry.

Positioning wheel may serve as another input member and is both rotatable as is indicated by an arrow to provide selection inputs to the processor and also can be pressed in a direction generally toward housing as is indicated by an arrow to provide another selection input to the processor.

Display may include a cursor that depicts generally where the next input or selection from user interface will be received. Display is shown in as displaying a home screen that represents a number of applications shows some of the example possible applications depicted as corresponding discrete icons . Icons include for example an Electronic Mail E Mail icon a Calendar icon an Address Book icon a Tasks icon a Messages icon a MemoPad icon and a Search icon respectively.

As shown now further in memory of the mobile device includes a plurality of applications or routines associated with the visually displayed icons of for the processing of data. Applications may be in any of a variety of forms such as without limitation software firmware and the like. Applications include for example an Electronic Mail E Mail application associated with E mail icon a Calendar application associated with Calendar icon an Address Book application associated with Address Book icon a Tasks application associated with Tasks icon a MemoPad Memos application associated with MemoPad icon a Web Browser application associated with Web Browser icon a Voice Telephone application associated with Voice Telephone icon and a Search application associated with Search icon . An operating system OS program also resides in memory .

The home screen output is shown in as currently active and constitutes the main ribbon application for displaying the icons shown. An application such as E mail application of may then be initiated opened or viewed from user interface by providing a suitable user input to it. For example E mail application may be initiated opened or viewed by rotating positioning wheel to highlight E mail icon and providing a selection input by translating positioning wheel in the direction indicated by arrow . As another example display displays icon associated with Search application and accepts input from positioning wheel to initiate a search from that icon . Applications may be additionally or alternatively initiated opened or viewed from user interface by providing another suitable input to it such as by suitably rotating or rolling trackball and providing a selection input by for example pushing the trackball e.g. somewhat similar to positioning wheel except into the plane of .

Movement navigation and or scrolling with use of a cursor view positioning mechanism is beneficial given the relatively large size of visually displayed information and the compact size of display of and since information and messages are typically only partially presented in the limited view of display at any given moment. As previously described positioning wheel is one helpful cursor view positioning mechanism to achieve such movement. Positioning wheel which may be referred to as a scrollwheel specifically includes a circular disc which is rotatable about a fixed axis of housing and may be rotated by the end user s index finger or thumb. When the information or message is being partially displayed an upwards rotation of positioning wheel causes an upwards scrolling such that display presents viewing of an upper portion of the information or message. Similarly a downwards rotation of positioning wheel causes a downwards scrolling such that display presents viewing of a lower portion of the information or message. Positioning wheel is mounted along a fixed linear axis such that the end user can depress positioning wheel inwards toward housing e.g. with the end user s index finger or thumb for selection of information. Again see the direction indicated by an arrow of positioning wheel shown.

Although a specific mobile device has just been described any suitable mobile communication device or terminal may be part of the inventive methods and apparatus which will be described in fuller detail below. Note that many components of mobile device shown and described may not be included e.g. a full QWERTY keypad may be optional . Again keyboard and display may be substituted or enhanced with a touch screen display or other suitable input mechanism or enhanced or replaced with a voice activated input module. Also although the description of the architecture relates to a specific example for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a Bluetooth based network a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Referring back to the environment of it is noted that mobile device may exit and enter into new and different WLANs during its operation. The new or unknown WLAN may be WLAN which is a WLAN hotspot e.g. providing a captive portal where a user registration or login or other user response will be required prior to mobile device obtaining any useful services via the WLAN hotspot. The walled garden of the WLAN hotspot prohibits such access. Fortunately hotspot aggregators enable mobile devices to obtain service in a e.g. large number of different WLAN hotspots in any easy manner. A hotspot aggregator provides wireless Internet access to its customers by renting a WLAN connection to the Internet i.e. the WLAN hotspot from a plurality of hotspot owners e.g. at coffee shops hotels and airports . In contrast to an ordinary telecommunications entity a hotspot aggregator does not necessarily own the access networks but rather relies on a network of independently owned and operated WLANs hotspots. Examples of current hotspot aggregators are Boingo and iPass.

One or more aggregator services may be offered in a single WLAN hotspot and in any given WLAN hotspot some aggregator services may be made offered while others may not be. A WLAN hotspot may utilize only a single Set Service Identifier SSID for identification and it may not be readily apparent to roaming mobile devices what particular aggregator service is provided in any particular WLAN hotspot. Traditionally an aggregator provides client software to install in the mobile device to aid in finding the appropriate WLANs and signing in for service. Locally stored directories of WLAN hotspot locations and details may be provided e.g. which SSIDs are supported which requires some type of network connection for updates. The existing ways of obtaining service are specific to each particular aggregator. For example each WLAN hotspot may require a different way of logging in for access e.g. different web sites for login .

After installation conventional client software typically seizes and maintains control over the WLAN selection mechanism of the mobile device which is utilized for selecting and connecting to an appropriate WLAN. There is little flexibility for a conventional mobile device to be able to utilize multiple aggregator services in an easy and efficient manner.

As shown in the modules include a master service management module a plurality of aggregator service application modules and a wireless network connection module . Master service management module may hereinafter be referred to as master module aggregator service application modules may hereinafter be referred to as aggregator modules and wireless network connection module may hereinafter be referred to as connection module .

Aggregator modules may include aggregator modules and which are designated as modules . . . to N as shown in . One or more aggregator modules may be initially stored in memory during manufacture or dealer configuration of the mobile device. Alternatively or in combination with the above one or more aggregator modules may be received and installed in memory of the mobile device after manufacture of the mobile device one by one as desired or needed by the user. For example one or more aggregator modules may be received over the air via a wireless network e.g. WLAN or PLMN of and installed in memory of the mobile device one by one as desired or needed by the user.

Aggregator modules are configured for use in accessing a plurality of different aggregator services e.g. Boingo iPass etc. . Aggregator modules may alternatively be referred to as hotspot client modules. Each aggregator service offers access through a plurality of offered wireless networks e.g. various WLAN hotspots and these offered wireless networks may be identified by a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. The offered wireless network identifiers of offered wireless networks for service are provided via the corresponding aggregator module. Such information may be initially stored in memory upon installation of the aggregator module. Alternatively or in combination with the above such information may be received over the network as needed e.g. per location area which may be over the air via a wireless network e.g. WLAN or PLMN of . Once initially obtained the information may be regularly updated over the air via a wireless network.

Master module is indeed configured to have master control over each one of the aggregator slave modules . Master module is configured to interface and communicate with each one of aggregator modules in accordance with an application programming interface API . Further master module is configured to maintain master control and interact with connection module preferably in an exclusive manner i.e. as opposed to any of aggregator modules interacting with connection module .

During installation of one of the aggregator modules in memory of the mobile device a registration process is performed. The registration process allows master module to receive aggregator service information to receive build or otherwise produce an aggregator service profile for the corresponding aggregator service. The information for the aggregator service profile may be obtained during or as part of the installation process over the air from a wireless network and or via the user interface of the mobile device. In one embodiment the information in an aggregator service profile may be or include an aggregator identification an aggregator name the plurality of offered wireless network identifiers e.g. even a subset for example per location area and one or more server names for authentication and or access as examples.

Again master module is configured to maintain master control and interact with connection module preferably in an exclusive manner i.e. as opposed to any of aggregator modules interacting with connection module . In turn connection module is configured to interact with and or instruct wireless transceiver to perform scanning operations for identifying available wireless networks within a geographic region of the mobile device. Available wireless networks identified by connection module are made part of a scan list of wireless network identifiers corresponding to the available wireless networks. In the example of scan list shows that four 4 different wireless networks are available namely wireless networks identified SSID1 SSID2 SSID3 and SSID4 . Connection module is also configured to connect with a selected wireless network with use of a selected wireless network identifier corresponding to the selected wireless network. Once connection is made to the appropriate selected wireless network the mobile device may obtain the appropriate aggregator service via the selected wireless network.

As shown in master module is also configured to maintain a prioritized list of profiles. The profiles in prioritized list may include profiles of one or more wireless networks and or one or more aggregator services. Any wireless network having a profile in prioritized list may be identified by a wireless network identifier such as an SSID or by a wireless network name.

On the other hand any aggregator service having a profile in prioritized list may be identified by an aggregator service identifier or name. In the example of prioritized list shows that five 5 different profiles are included and prioritized namely two 2 profiles of wireless networks corresponding to identifiers HOME1 and WORK1 and three 3 profiles of aggregator services corresponding to identifiers AGG1 AGG2 and AGGN . Each profile of an aggregator service may store or include other relevant information as well such as authentication credentials for login to the hotspot network.

For network selection master module is also configured to provide an automatic profile network selection technique and a manual profile network selection technique. These techniques make use of the prioritized list of profiles and the scan list of available wireless network identifiers see e.g. . There may be two 2 separate profiles kept for the manual and the automatic network selection technique. In the manual profile network selection technique the scan list is displayed in the display as a user input prompt. The user manually selects one of the profiles networks in the scan list via the user interface and in response connection module is instructed to connect to a wireless network associated with the same. In the automatic profile network selection technique the mobile device automatically selects without user intervention the next best one of the profiles networks in the prioritized list in prioritized order. If a selected wireless network identifier matches an available wireless network identifier from the scan list then connection module is instructed to connect to a wireless network associated with the same. Note that such automatic manual selection techniques or functionality may alternatively be provided within a module different from master module .

Master module may be further configured to maintain master control over the use of aggregator modules its slaves during wireless operation. In particular master module may receive and interpret requests from the wireless network and in response make the appropriate calls to the proper aggregator module so that the aggregator module may properly respond to such requests using predetermined protocols e.g. including proprietary protocols . For example master module may receive a hotspot network login requirement from the wireless network and in response make the appropriate call to the selected aggregator module so that the aggregator module may perform its credentials submission and or login procedure with the hotspot network.

Even further master module may be further configured to maintain master control over the presentation of the display of the mobile device. Even though an aggregator service may be selected for communications the aggregator module corresponding to the selected aggregator service makes display presentation requests if at all through master module and in response master module calls the appropriate display data and or presentations with the appropriate information for display.

As described earlier in relation to the communication device is configured to store a plurality of aggregator service application modules for use in accessing a plurality of aggregator services. Each aggregator service offers access through a plurality of offered wireless networks identified by a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. The offered wireless network identifiers for each service are provided via the corresponding aggregator service application module. The mobile device also maintains a prioritized list of profiles which include a plurality of aggregator service profiles associated with the plurality of aggregator services.

Referring to it is assumed that the mobile device has not yet connected to a wireless network or has lost wireless network coverage. The controller of the mobile device causes a scanning operation to be performed with use of the wireless transceiver to scan for wireless communication networks available in its geographic region step of . A wireless network may be identified by a wireless network identifier which may be in the present WLAN environment a set service identifier SSID . A scan list of wireless network identifiers corresponding to available wireless networks may be produced as a result of such step. The scanning in the WLAN environment may be a passive scan or an active scan. Such scanning operations may be performed periodically or regularly in the background in accordance with a predetermined algorithm.

One of the profile network selection techniques is invoked at the mobile device e.g. the automatic or manual profile network selection technique . The master module identifies which profile has been selected from the profile network selection technique step of . If as identified in step the selected profile corresponds to a wireless network then the master module will receive such indication which includes a wireless network identifier e.g. SSID corresponding thereto. The master module compares the selected wireless network identifier with available wireless network identifiers in the scan list for identifying whether the selected wireless network identifier matches any of the available wireless network identifiers step of . If yes in step the master module instructs the connection module to establish a connection with the wireless network identified by the wireless network identifier step of .

On the other hand if as identified in step the selected profile corresponds to an aggregator service profile then the master module will receive such indication which includes an aggregator service identifier or name. In response the master module selects or identifies one of the aggregator modules corresponding to the selected aggregator service identifier or name and invokes the selected aggregator module to initiate its functionality step of . For example the master module may invoke the selected aggregator module by executing it or calling a routine or subroutine thereof. From invoking the selected aggregator module the master module may identify or select a wireless network identifier of a suitable available wireless network step of .

As described earlier a selected aggregator module may provide or produce a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. In general the goal is to identify one of the available wireless network identifiers in the scan list that matches one of the offered wireless network identifiers provided via the aggregator module. In one embodiment in step the master module invokes the selected aggregator module so that it may identify all wireless networks that are both offered and available. In particular the master module sends or passes the available wireless network identifiers of the scan list to the selected aggregator module which in turn identifies whether any of the available wireless network identifiers in the scan list match any of its offered wireless network identifiers e.g. through a comparison step of . The aggregator module returns a list of one or more wireless networks that are both offered and available to the master module.

If a single wireless network identifier is returned then the master module instructs the connection module to establish a connection with the wireless network identified by the single wireless network identifier step of . If more than a single wireless network identifier is returned then the master module selects a preferred one of the wireless network identifiers based on predetermined criteria. In one embodiment the master module has selection or filtering criteria such as a list of preferred wireless network identifiers or associated identification information for preferred wireless networks and or a list of excluded wireless network identifiers or associated identification information for excluded wireless networks. Again the master module instructs the connection module to establish a connection with the wireless network identified by the wireless network identifier step of .

Note that after a connection is made in step the master module may receive and interpret requests from the wireless network e.g. for hotspot network login and make the appropriate call s to the aggregator module so that the aggregator module may properly respond to such requests e.g. perform its credentials submission and or login procedure with the hotspot network .

If there is no match as identified in step of then processing returns back to step where the user is prompted via the user interface to select another different profile network i.e. in the case of manual network profile selection or the master module automatically selects the next best one of the networks profiles from the prioritized list i.e. in the case of automatic network profile selection .

When the quality of the communications with the wireless network become poor or lost e.g. due to roaming of the mobile device the method repeats again starting step or of .

Thus network selection methods and apparatus for communication devices which utilize a master service management module and a prioritized list of multiple aggregator service profiles for accessing multiple aggregator services have been described. A communication device is configured to store a plurality of aggregator service application modules for use in accessing a plurality of different aggregator services. Each aggregator service offers access through a plurality of offered wireless networks identified by a plurality of offered wireless network identifiers. The communication device maintains a prioritized list of profiles which include a plurality of aggregator service profiles associated with the plurality of aggregator services. A scanning operation is performed for identifying one or more available wireless networks in a geographic area of the device for producing a scan list of one or more available wireless network identifiers corresponding to the one or more available wireless networks. One of the aggregator service profiles is selected from the prioritized list causing one of the aggregator service application modules corresponding to the selected profile to be invoked. The invoked module causes one of the available wireless network identifiers from the scan list that matches one of the offered wireless network identifiers to be selected if such matching identifier exists. A connection is then established with one of the available wireless networks corresponding to the selected available wireless network identifier for accessing a selected aggregator service corresponding to the selected aggregator service profile.

The master module utilized may receive and interpret requests from the selected wireless network and in response make the appropriate calls to the appropriate aggregator module so that the aggregator module may properly respond to such requests using predetermined protocols. Further the master module may be configured to maintain master control over the presentation of the display of the mobile device. Here the aggregator module may make display presentation requests through the master module and in response the master module calls the appropriate display data and or presentations with the appropriate information for display.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. Although the description of the architecture for relates to a specific example for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a Bluetooth based network a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples. The invention described herein in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

