---

title: Text-based system for exchanging commands between devices, services and applications
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system is provided for exchanging text-based commands between clients, services, and/or applications. The method includes receiving, in a processor, a text-based command assigned to a service command configured to control at least one service of a computing device. The method also includes translating the text-based command into the service command based on a look-up table. The service command is provided to the service. The service is controlled based on the service command.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08484380&OS=08484380&RS=08484380
owner: 
number: 08484380
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100922
---
The invention relates to a method computer program product and computer system for exchanging commands and more particularly to a method computer program product computer system and telecommunication system for exchanging text based commands between clients servers services and or applications.

With more consumers being able to access the Internet and cellular networks web and mobile services have increased in popularity. One such web and mobile service the social network has become extremely popular with some social networks featuring millions of users. These social networks provide means for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. Some social networks also allow users to share music or business contacts while others allow individuals to publish web logs blogs or socialize with friends and families.

There are several ways for users to interface with web and mobile services. For example on a computer a user can click command buttons of a service s web site with his or her mouse to control the service. On a cell phone a jog wheel or a touchscreen can replace a mouse as an input device or special hardware buttons e.g. an e mail button provided by the manufacturer can be used to control web and mobile services.

However many consumers may not be able to access web and mobile services for various reasons. For instance these individuals may not have the input devices e.g. a touchscreen special buttons or access to the applications necessary to use the services. Even if a consumer has an applicable input device such as a keyboard on his or her cell phone the input device may be in a foreign language incompatible to the services or not be provided with the necessary functions or function inputs.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method includes receiving in a processor a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control at least one service of a computing device. The method also includes translating the text based command into the service command based on a look up table. The service command is provided to the service. The service is controlled based on the service command.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product includes a computer usable storage medium having readable program code embodied in the storage medium. The computer program product includes at least one component operable to receive a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control a service of a computing device. The at least one component is further operable to translate the text based command into the service command based on a look up table and to provide the service command to the service. The service is controlled based on the service command.

In yet another aspect of the invention a computer system for exchanging commands includes a CPU a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage media. The computer system additionally includes first program instructions to receive a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control a service of a computing device. Second program instructions translate the text based command into the service command based on a look up table. Third program instructions provide the service command to the service. The service is controlled based on the service command. The first second and third program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by the CPU via the computer readable memory. The text based command includes at least one text based symbol. The look up table includes text based commands. Each of the text based commands are assigned to one or more service commands configured to control the at least one service. The computer system is implemented in at least one of a client device the computing device and a third party service provider.

The invention relates to a method computer program product and computer system for exchanging commands and more particularly to a method computer program product computer system and telecommunication system for exchanging text based commands between clients servers services and or applications. More specifically the invention is directed to a text based user interface for web and mobile services applications and hardware. In implementation the invention uses symbols such as those from the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 03.38 alphabet as commands for services. In embodiments these symbols may be unified for all services. By implementing the present invention consumers users can access and participate in web and mobile services regardless of their input device technology and language.

For example in operation a user can enter a symbol on any user device which is translated into a command related to some action such as subscribe to a blog. The blog can then subscribe the user to such blog based on the input of this universally accepted symbol. Advantageously the user does not need special input devices a blog provided application a keyboard in the blog service s language or the like to control the blog. The present invention requires a text based interface with the symbol to interact with the blog.

The present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. The present invention may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment or a combination of software and hardware. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible storage of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store or communicate for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device.

The computing device is in communication with the external I O device resource and the storage system B. The I O device can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device e.g. user interface or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link.

The processor executes computer program code e.g. program control which can be stored in the memory A and or storage system B. While executing the computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The program code executes the processes of the invention such as for example translating a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control a service into the service command as will be discussed below.

The computing device includes a text based module that may be a portion of the computer program code. Alternatively the text based module may be located in computer program code of another computing device. For example the text based module can be located on a client device a third party service provider or a public or private server. Further for example the text based module can be implemented as the following 

The text based module performs the processes of the invention such as for instance translating a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control a service into the service command. The text based command can then be acted upon by the requested service such as for example a social networking site.

The translator module receives a text based command from a user device a user interface and or the computing device e.g. a client device a server of a service provider a networking node via the components of the device. The text based command may include at least one text based symbol from for example the GSM 03.38 alphabet which is available in many cellular telephones or other portable computing devices. Symbols from this alphabet may include for example and others as shown in . While using the GSM 03.38 alphabet may provide a unified standard of symbols available in many mobile phones other standards are contemplated by the invention. For example the text based commands may include at least one text based symbol from a QWERTY keyboard layout found on many English language computer keyboards and mobile keypads. Symbols from this keyboard layout may include for example and others as shown in . In embodiments of the invention the text based command may include at least one text based key of an input device. For example the text based key may be a letter or a symbol of a computer keyboard or a cell phone keypad. In embodiments of the invention the text based command may include multiple text based symbols or keys in a predefined combination e.g. and . In embodiments the text based command may be an empty command i.e. include a NULL value in a symbol field .

The symbol field of the syntax includes the at least one text based symbol text based key or a NULL value discussed above. For example a service may interpret a NULL value in the symbol field as a command to get the home page. 

The number field may be used to pass numbers and or number arguments such as a desired page number of a blog at a social network service. In this example if a user wants to read page 35 of a blog at domain.com and the symbol for read blog is he or she could send the following text based command 

In embodiments the number field may be empty and a service may interpret the empty number field as a command to read a last page of a blog.

The message field of the syntax may be utilized to send a message to a user or a service. For instance a message may be from a user to another user for technical support or to update a blog. In the first case if a user wants to send a message to another user at email.com and the symbol for send message is he or she could send the following text based command 

In embodiments the domain portion of the syntax may be directed to vehicle license plate numbers and or letters. For example to send a message to an owner of a vehicle with a vehicle license plate number ABC12345 a user could send the following text based command 

To read a microblog of the owner the user could send the vehicle license plate number ABC12345 in a message portion of a text based command to a domain of a blog service for example.

After the translator module receives the text based command the translator module translates the text based command into the service command based on the look up table . More specifically the translator module reads the text based symbol or key or the symbol field of the text based command and finds the symbol in the look up table . Once the translator module finds the symbol in the look up table the translator module is able to read the corresponding service command which is provided to the computing device or another computing device. The service command may also include the domain the number and the message portions of the text based command. The translated service command may be provided to the computing device or another computing device e.g. a service a content provider by for example the following 

Further as shown in the service commands may include those for a social network service such as add member delete member and ban user. The service commands may additionally include those for a blog service for instance delete tags write blog and delete blog. Some of the text based keys may be n a or not assigned to any service or application command. However these keys may be later assigned for future use. That is the look up table may be reconfigured for new services and applications.

In addition the look up table may be unified for all services and applications to provide a consistent interface for users.

In embodiments all one or two letter words may be reserved for the system as domains for a user to execute system functions and or to send messages. Accordingly in such a system a user would be required to register a domain of three letters or more.

As shown in at step the process of the invention begins. At step a text based command is received from a computing system. At step the received text based command is translated into a service command based on a look up table of the invention. At step the translated service command is provided to the computing system or to another computing system for use. For example the service command may be provided to a content provider for action. The action can be for instance add or delete a member of a user s social network. At step the process of invention ends.

In embodiments the client device may interface with a user of the service . To exchange commands between the client device and the service SMS messages may be transferred to the SMS Gateway and then via the network to the service . Alternatively data packets and or radio signals may be transferred from the client device through the network and to the service . For example a user of the client device may send an SMS message configured to request a ringtone from the service which may be a ringtone service via the network and the SMS Gateway . However this SMS message may have to be formatted in a manner prescribed by the service e.g. with the name of the ringtone in a foreign language. In response the service may send an SMS message configured to request a credit card number from the user via the network and the SMS Gateway . Commands may be exchanged between the client device and other services such as the e mail service the IM service and or the web service in a similar fashion i.e. via the network .

In embodiments to exchange text based commands the text based module may be implemented in the client device . Thus a user of the client device may use a text based command assigned to a service command configured to control the services and or . The text based command is based on text based symbols or keys that a user can easily access instead of for example foreign language keys or special hardware buttons. For example the text based symbols or keys can be the symbols shown in and or .

More specifically a user may input a text based command into the client device . The text based module receives the text based command and translates it to a corresponding service command. The client device provides the translated service command to at least one of the services and . Accordingly in this embodiment the text based module may be an application downloaded and or installed in the client device . For example the text based module may be a Graphical User Interface GUI application a gadget on a device desktop part of an instant messaging client part of e mail application and or part of a Really Simple Syndication RSS application.

In particular a user may input a text based command into the client device which then sends the text based command without translation to the service via the network the SMS Gateway the e mail service the IM service and or the web service . The service may receive and transfer the text based command to the text based module for translation into a corresponding service command. The service may then follow the translated service command as specified by the user. As such in this embodiment the text based module may be for example a web site a web client a web service application programming interface API and or a WAP interface accessible to the user via the Internet e.g. the network . In addition the text based module may be at the backend of an SMS MMS e mail and or IM service to unify their received commands.

In embodiments of the invention the service may only translate the text based command from the user into the corresponding service command. The service may then send the translated service command to another service such as the e mail service the IM service the web service and or an SMS MMS service not shown . These services may receive and follow the service command as specified by the user. That is the service including the text based module may be a third party service that translates text based commands into service commands for other services. This third party service may be accessible to the user via the network or the SMS Gateway .

In further embodiments the text the text based system may be used as or implemented in the following 

In further embodiments the text the text based system may be used as or implemented in the following 

In embodiments the text based system may include history records for every user to recognize a last message or state. The text based system may also execute short cut commands for a specific user. For example when a user obtains a blog entry the system may save this as a last text based command for that user for a specified period of time e.g. one hour . When the user wants to obtain the blog entry again the user may send only a number e.g. 3 as a short cut command instead of a full text based command since the system knows which entry the user obtained previously based on the user s history records. The short cut commands simplify and shorten required parameters and information for the text based system. For example short cut commands may have the following functions 

The present invention provides a text based user interface to control web and mobile services and applications. By using text based symbols as commands the present invention allows more consumers to use services and applications since the symbols may be more available on consumer technology such as mobile phones and in various languages. In addition the present invention may include a unified system of symbols and syntax as commands thus further increasing the accessibility of services and applications to users.

The foregoing examples have been provided for the purpose of explanation and should not be construed as limiting the present invention. While the present invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment. Changes may be made within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention in its aspects. Also although the present invention has been described herein with reference to particular materials and embodiments the present invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the present invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims.

