---

title: Systems and methods for sensing properties of a workpiece and embedding a photonic sensor in metal
abstract: Systems and methods for sensing properties of a workpiece and embedding a photonic sensor in metal are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, systems for sensing properties of a workpiece include an optical input, a photonic device, an optical detector, and a digital processing device. The optical input provides an optical signal at an output of the optical input. The photonic device is coupled to the workpiece and to the output of the optical input. The photonic device generates an output signal in response to the optical signal, wherein at least one of an intensity of the output signal and a wavelength of the output signal depends on at least one of thermal characteristics and mechanical characteristics of the workpiece. The optical detector receives the output signal from the photonic device and is configured to generate a corresponding electronic signal. The digital processing device is coupled to the optical detector and determines at least one of the thermal characteristics and mechanical the characteristics of the workpiece based on the electronic signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08351742&OS=08351742&RS=08351742
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 08351742
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
This application is a divisional application of and thus claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 12 160 043 filed on Jan. 23 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 840 101 which is a U.S. national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 000133 filed Jan. 3 2007 and entitled Systems and Methods for Sensing Properties of a Workpiece and Embedding a Photonic Sensor in Metal which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 755 799 filed Jan. 3 2006 and entitled Distributed Subwavelength Micro and Nano photonics for Ultrahigh Spatial and Temporal Resolution in Displacement Strain Vibrational and Thermal Sensing the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present subject matter was developed with Government support under grant number 0528900 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government may have certain rights in the present subject matter.

The disclosed subject matter relates to systems and methods for sensing properties of a workpiece and embedding a photonic sensor in metal.

Placing temperature and strain sensors directly into a manufacturing environment can help to obtain effective monitoring and control of manufacturing processes for computer chip and mechanical products. If critical conditions in these processes are continuously monitored with sensors problems can be detected and solved during the processing cycle resulting in improved product quality and productivity. There are ongoing efforts to fabricate electrically based micro sensors such as thin film thermocouples and strain gauges for in situ manufacturing process monitoring. Typically however with electrically based sensor arrays having a large number of sensors e.g. that are distributed across a computer chip or mechanical product the assembly of wires that allow readouts from these arrays can be cumbersome and costly. Monitoring the fabrication of metal structures in hostile manufacturing environments is particularly challenging because the presence of high temperatures corrosive agents such as acids alkalis and oxidizers and electromagnetic interference can damage an electrical sensor or impair its ability to monitor processes.

Systems and methods for sensing properties of a workpiece and embedding a photonic sensor in metal are disclosed herein.

In some embodiments systems for sensing properties of a workpiece include an optical input a photonic device an optical detector and a digital processing device. The optical input provides an optical signal at an output of the optical input. The photonic device is coupled to the workpiece and to the output of the optical input. The photonic device generates an output signal in response to the optical signal wherein at least one of an intensity of the output signal and a wavelength of the output signal depends on at least one of thermal characteristics and mechanical characteristics of the workpiece. The optical detector receives the output signal from the photonic device and is configured to generate a corresponding electronic signal. The digital processing device is coupled to the optical detector and determines at least one of the thermal characteristics and mechanical the characteristics of the workpiece based on the electronic signal.

Some embodiments include one or more of the following features. The digital processing device also modifies a parameter in a process being applied to the workpiece in response to the at least one of the thermal characteristics and the mechanical characteristics of the workpiece determined by the digital processing device. The photonic device includes a microring resonator. The photonic device includes a defect in a photonic crystal. The workpiece is one of a computer chip and a mechanical product. The photonic device is embedded in a layer of the workpiece. The photonic device has a Q between approximately 100 and approximately 10. The photonic device has a Q between approximately 2 000 and approximately 20 000. The optical input includes a laser. The optical detector includes a photodiode. The optical input is coupled to the photonic device by a waveguide.

In some embodiments methods of embedding photonic sensors in a metal include depositing a first optically insulating layer on a substrate depositing and patterning a waveguide material on the first optically insulating layer to define the photonic sensor depositing and patterning a second optically insulating layer over the photonic sensor depositing a first metal layer over the second optically insulating layer etching the substrate to free the first and second optically insulating layers the photonic sensor and the first metal layer from the substrate and thus expose a surface of the first optically insulating layer depositing a second metal layer over the exposed surface of the first optically insulating layer and thus substantially embed the photonic sensor and first and second optically insulating layers between the first and second metal layers.

In some embodiments patterning the waveguide material includes at least one of lithography and etching.

In some embodiments methods for sensing properties of a workpiece with a photonic device include providing an optical signal to the photonic device coupling the photonic device to a workpiece for which a measurement is desired the photonic device generating an output signal in response to the optical signal wherein at least one of an intensity of the output signal and a wavelength of the output signal depends on at least one of thermal characteristics and mechanical characteristics of the workpiece receiving the output signal from the photonic device and based on the output signal determining at least one of the thermal characteristics and the mechanical characteristics of the workpiece.

Some embodiments include one or more of the following features. Modifying a parameter in a process being applied to the workpiece in response to the at least one of the thermal characteristics and the mechanical characteristics of the workpiece determined. Coupling the photonic device to the workpiece includes embedding the photonic device in a layer of the workpiece.

In some embodiments systems for sensing properties of at least two regions of a workpiece with at least two distributed photonic devices include an optical input at least two distributed photonic devices an optical detector and a digital processing device. The optical input outputs an optical signal. The at least two distributed photonic devices are coupled to the at least two regions of the workpiece and to the optical input. The at least two distributed photonic devices generate at least two output signals in response to the optical input wherein at least one of an intensity and a wavelength of each of the at least two output signals depends on at least one of thermal characteristics and mechanical characteristics of the at least two regions of the workpiece. The optical detector receives the at least two output signals from the at least two distributed photonic devices and is configured to generate a corresponding electronic signal. The digital processing device is coupled to the detector and determines at least one of the thermal characteristics and the mechanical characteristics of the at least two regions of the workpiece based on the electronic signal.

Some embodiments include one or more of the following features. An optical waveguide that couples the optical input to the at least two distributed photonic devices. An optical waveguide that couples the at least two distributed photonic devices to the optical detector. The at least two distributed photonic devices are embedded in one or more layers of the workpiece. At least one of the photonic devices includes a microring resonator. At least one of the photonic devices includes a defect in a photonic crystal.

In some embodiments systems for sensing properties of a workpiece include means for outputting an optical signal means coupled to the workpiece and to the optical signal for generating an output signal in response to the optical signal wherein at least one of an intensity of the output signal and a wavelength of the output signal depends on at least one of thermal characteristics and mechanical characteristics of the workpiece means for detecting the output signal and means for determining at least one of the thermal characteristics and the mechanical characteristics of the workpiece based on the detected output signal.

In some embodiments the means for generating an output signal includes one of a microring resonator and a defect in a photonic crystal.

Systems and methods for sensing properties of a workpiece and embedding a photonic sensor in metal are disclosed. In some embodiments photonic devices such as microring and nanophotonic crystal resonators are useful for monitoring and controlling manufacturing processes for pieces such as computer chips and mechanical products by monitoring the effects of thermo mechanical phenomena arising from the manufacturing processes on the pieces. More specifically in some embodiments and as described in greater detail below the photonic sensors can be incorporated into and distributed throughout the pieces during an early manufacturing stage e.g. before the pieces are exposed to processes that would benefit from being monitored. The sensors can be made sufficiently small and can be selectively placed such that they generally will not interfere with normal operation of the finished piece. In some embodiments for example the nanophotonic crystal based nanocavities described below the sensors can be less than about 1 micron in size e.g. between about 100 nm and 1 micron in size i.e. sub micron while in other embodiments for example the microring resonators described below the sensors can be between about 1 micron and about 10 microns in size although other sizes are possible. Along with the sensors optical waveguides can also be incorporated into and distributed throughout the pieces. These waveguides can allow an optical input of known wavelength distribution from an optical source such as a laser to be introduced to the sensors. The waveguides can also allow a corresponding optical output that relates to the thermo mechanical effects of a process on the pieces to be collected from the sensors by a detector. Based on the intensity and or wavelength distribution of the optical output a computer processor in communication with the detector can then appropriately modify the manufacturing process so as to adjust the effects of the process on the pieces for example so as to inhibit damage to the pieces or otherwise improve the process.

The photonic sensors can provide multiple features that are difficult to obtain with conventional electrically based sensors. First because the photonic sensors have a significantly smaller physical mass and thermal mass than conventional sensors they can provide an enhanced ability to sense process changes e.g. strain temperature and vibration . This speed of sensing allows those processes to be adjusted as needed. Photonic sensors are also highly resistant to electromagnetic interference and to hostile environments that can render typical electrically based sensors inoperable. Photonic sensors also permit the collection of data with spatial resolution and sensitivity that is greatly enhanced over conventional macro sensors for example allowing spatial resolution on the order of 10 m or better strain resolution on the order of 10 and temporal resolution on order of a nanosecond or better. The output from multiple arrays of sensors can also be multiplexed as discussed in greater detail below. Photonic sensors can also be embedded into metals to improve sensor survivability and reliability in manufacturing environments. Metal embedded photonic sensors can be fabricated with a batch fabrication process and subsequently transferred into larger metallic structures in manufacturing environments. Minimally invasive physical protection e.g. thermal photonic and or mechanical protection can be added to the embedded photonic sensors to improve their functionality. The sensors can further be characterized after embedding and calibrated under dynamic thermal and mechanical loads.

One suitable kind of photonic sensor is based on resonators in nanophotonic crystals. Nanophotonic crystals are periodic lattices of one or more alternating dielectric materials that permit photonic band gaps. These structures are analogous to the atomic potential lattices leading to electronic band gaps in semiconductors. Defects in the periodicity of nanophotonic crystals provide an exceptional means to design nanoscale optical resonators from first principles. More specifically an optical resonator arising from these defects in periodicity resonates at an optical frequency that is highly sensitive to the resonator s thermo mechanical environment. Thus monitoring the resonant optical frequency of the optical resonator provides information about that environment that can be used to modify that environment appropriately e.g. by changing a process parameter.

The resonator can be characterized by its quality factor Q which is a measure of its extrinsic and intrinsic optical losses. The resonator Q is defined as which is the ratio of the resonator operating wavelength to the resonator full width half maximum FWHM . At the resonant wavelength the Q of a nanophotonic resonator is as high as 10 which is two to three orders of magnitude higher than conventional fiber Bragg sensors which can also be used for temperature and strain sensing in manufacturing environments.

Bragg sensors generally contain Bragg gratings as a sensing element. Application of mechanical strain or a temperature change to these gratings shifts the center wavelength of light reflected from the fiber Bragg gratings and the wavelength shift provides the necessary information to calculate the change in strain or temperature. However Bragg sensors are typically significantly larger than photonic sensors e.g. between about 125 and 250 m in size versus less than about 10 m in size for some embodiments of photonic sensors and are significantly less sensitive as discussed in greater detail herein.

The optical response time of a nanophotonic resonator e.g. the amount of time it takes a given amount of light resonating within a nanocavity to decay below a threshold value provides a measure of the rate at which continuous strain event monitoring can be achieved. However a change in the temperature of the resonator or the application of a mechanical force such as compression of the resonator can cause a strain that modifies the physical characteristics of the structure. This can change the resonator Q as well as the resonant wavelength of the cavity. Thus a measurement of the resonator Q can be a measure of localized strain.

In some embodiments the Q of the resonator and thus a measurement of the thermal and or mechanical strain experienced by the resonator can be determined interferometrically. For example in some embodiments signal light of a first wavelength and control light of a second wavelength are transmitted into the crystal via a waveguide adjacent the nanocavity . The first wavelength is selected to be sufficiently close to the resonant wavelength of the nanocavity that it couples into the nanocavity . The light at the first wavelength interacts with the cavity according to the Q of the cavity and couples back into the waveguide . The light at the second wavelength does not significantly couple into the nanocavity but instead simply transmits along the waveguide . The light at the first and second wavelengths and interfere with each other and the intensity of this interference is related to how much attenuation the first wavelength experienced due to its interaction with the nanocavity and thus is related to the strain within the nanocavity. This interferometric intensity is proportional to 1 Q. An optical detector not shown in communication with the waveguide and capable of detecting the change in interferometric intensity between and arising from the strain within nanocavity converts the optical interference signal into an electrical signal. This electrical signal is transmitted to a computer processor not shown that uses that information to calculate the strain within nanocavity.

When integrated onto a silicon chip these nanophotonic crystal resonators like the microring resonators described below allow the thermo mechanical strain experienced by the silicon chip to be monitored with enhanced spatial and temporal resolution. The large resonator Q s allow distinguishable Lorentzian resonance peaks under small strain or thermal loading permitting improved sensitivities.

Furthermore due to the 1 dimensional geometry of these nanophotonic crystal resonators strain directionality can be obtained. For example shows a nanophotonic crystal sensor with sensing in both the x and y directions both and from the same nanocavity resonator in accordance with some embodiments. Sensor includes waveguide in the x direction which transmits signal and control light at first and second wavelengths respectively into nanocavity resonator in the x direction. As discussed above for the sensor of the signal light at the first wavelength couples into nanocavity and then couples back into waveguide . The signal light interferes with the control light at the second wavelength and the intensity of this interference is related to the strain experienced by the nanocavity in the x direction. A first detector not shown detects the interferometric intensity and a computer processor in electrical communication with the detector analyzes the resulting signal. Sensor also includes waveguide in the y direction which transmits signal and control light at third and fourth wavelengths respectively into nanocavity resonator in the y direction. The signal light at the third wavelength couples into nanocavity and then couples back into waveguide . The signal light interferes with the control light at the fourth wavelength and the intensity of this interference is related to the strain experienced by the nanocavity in the y direction. A second detector not shown detects the interferometric intensity and the computer processor which is also in electrical communication with the second detector analyses the resulting signal. The signals in the x and y directions are effectively independent of each other allowing the separate measurements of the nanocavity s strain in the x and y directions with minimal cross talk.

Another suitable kind of photonic sensor is based on microring resonators. Microring resonators are traveling wave resonators with a transmission response that follows a Lorentzian line shape filter. shows micrographs of a perspective view top image and plan view bottom image of a fabricated microring resonator in accordance with some embodiments. Signal light from an optical source not shown e.g. a fiber optic source travels along an input waveguide that is positioned adjacent to the microring resonator . The microring resonator becomes a resonant sink for the signal light when an integral number of wavelengths match its optical circumference i.e. at a resonant frequency of the resonator. Light that couples from the input waveguide into the resonator then couples from the microring resonator into an output waveguide . This coupled light then travels along the waveguide to an optical detector not shown e.g. a photodiode with fiber optic input. The electronic detector output is optionally fed to a lock in amplifier to reduce noise and is then input to a computer processor for analysis. is a plot of the normalized transmission peak of the microring resonator of as monitored at a detector in accordance with some embodiments. Plot shows two resonance frequency peaks of the microring resonator and the distance between the peaks corresponds to the free spectral range of the resonator. As discussed in greater detail below the central wavelength and bandwidth of the transmission peak are related to the strain the microring resonator experiences due to thermo mechanical phenomena.

When a chip having the embedded sensor system is mechanically or thermally compressed or stretched changes in the output signals recorded by the detector s can be tracked on GHz frequency ns time scale commercial optical detectors and monitored continuously and simultaneously at numerous network grids of the manufacturing structure through wavelength division multiplexing. The on chip sensors can also be thermally loaded to finely map out thermal variability and diffusion responses on small lengthscales.

The ring resonator can be separated from the waveguides by a gap which is designed and fabricated to be approximately equal to the critical coupling distance for the resonator. A gap of 300 nm is illustrated in the inset of . The coupling coefficient the spatial overlap integral between the resonator and waveguide modes is exponentially dependent on the coupling gap and at a critical coupling distance the coupling of light between the waveguide and resonator is the largest. The value of the critical coupling distance depends among other things upon the resonant frequency of the ring resonator.

The presence of mechanical or thermal strain in the material changes the size of the coupling gap and therefore also changes the value of the coupling coefficient . The resonator Q is related to by

As compared to conventional fiber Bragg grating sensors microring resonators are significantly smaller in size e.g. between about 1 10 m for some embodiments of microring resonators versus between about 125 250 m for Bragg grating sensors and permit spatial resolution of at least two orders of magnitude better. In addition in some embodiments the quality factor Q of a microring resonator typically approximately 10to 10 can be e.g. a few times better or even ten times or more better than conventional fiber Bragg grating sensors thus improving strain resolution. Microring resonators like nanophotonic crystal resonators have temporal resolution on order 25 100 ps. Current detector technology permits measurement of modulation rates up to 10Hz and thus the temporal resolution measurable by the system is limited mainly by the photon lifetime in the resonator. This permits significantly improved temporal sensing and detection of high frequency small amplitude strain variation which is supported even with commercial off the shelf photodetectors.

As compared to the 1 dimensional nanophotonic crystal resonators shown in microring resonators are inherently 2 dimensional structures. Hence strain measurements from a single microring resonator will yield the aggregate in plane strain at its position. To achieve strain directionality measurements a differential structure with microrings in approximately orthogonal directions as illustrated in can be employed. Although in some embodiments microring resonators sense with slightly lower spatial resolution and slightly lower strain sensitivity than nanophotonic crystal resonators the optical coupling losses to microring resonators can be lower than for nanophotonic crystal resonators allowing for potentially easier characterization and measurement. In some embodiments ring resonators can have a Q between about 2 000 and about 20 000. In some embodiments nanophotonic crystal resonators have a Q of about 70 000. In general photonic resonators can have a Q between about 100 and about 10.

Higher order resonator structures such as structures that shown in can be used to help to improve the sensitivity of the sensor. Larger microrings with larger radii can be used to obtain larger Q resonances for higher sensitivity.

In some embodiments photonic sensors e.g. nanophotonic crystal and or microring resonators are integrated into a short closed loop optical waveguide e.g. having a perimeter of approximately 50 mm 100 mm with an input output coupling structure.

Note that using optical fiber input and output coupling to the resonators provides data transmission at the speed of light between the individual sensors and the data collection endpoints in the sensor network. This provides distributed sensors with sufficiently high speeds for demanding applications for example determining information about critical locations of an aerospace structure or about the high speed dynamics of fracture or ballistic impact. Since the photonic sensors are fabricated on chip computational and decision logic transistors for deployment of protective systems or corrective actions for example can be integrated on chip for minimal time delay.

Photonic sensors can be defined through standard semiconductor lithography techniques permitting low cost batch fabrication as well as high precision location of the sensors on chip. This provides for the development of an on chip parallel sensor array. As described above signal light can be introduced to the sensors via an optical fiber attached to the chip and a detector can collect light returning from the sensors via a second optical fiber attached to the chip. As shown in information from multiple arrays of the photonic sensors can be collected over the same fiber bus through wavelength multiplexing. Specifically in some embodiments a single global light source can be input to an array of microring resonators via an integrated waveguide curve below resonators a part of which is adjacent the resonators in the array. As the light traverses the waveguide it couples to each resonator in the array as it passes providing an input to the resonator. Similarly as each resonator produces an output that output couples to an integrated waveguide curve above resonators a part of which is adjacent the resonators in the array and which feeds the output to a single detector. The output relates to the responses of the different resonators in the array. Commercial off the shelf photodetectors can have nanosecond or better response times supporting significantly improved temporal sensing and detection of multiple high frequency small amplitude signals from the resonators in the array.

The photonic resonators can be designed using a variety of analytic and numerical techniques including finite difference method FDM mode solvers finite difference time domain FDTD calculations and coupled mode theory. With high index contrast waveguides these resonators can be made very small since radiation losses from tight bends are greatly reduced. These photonic crystal and microring resonators can be side coupled or vertically coupled to the input and output waveguides through evanescent fields. The resultant combination is a system with a transfer function that has a single pole response i.e. that has a single central resonance frequency and narrow bandwidth. The location of the pole and hence the resonator Q and resonant frequency is determined by the input output coupling ratios and the attenuation associated with one optical transit phase within the resonator. These parameters are optimized with analytic and numerical techniques prior to fabrication.

Photonic sensors can be fabricated on chip with silicon on insulator wafer substrates hence permitting CMOS level batch processing and the chips packaged to readily couple to signal input and detector single mode optical fibers. For example microring resonators can be fabricated in high index contrast silicon nitride and silicon material systems using standard CMOS processes. In one method of making microring resonators a photoresist e.g. PMMA is coated over the silicon material from which the sensor is to be made. Electron beam lithography is then used to define a pattern in the PMMA. The PMMA is developed and subsequently metallized with a liftoff step to leave a patterned metal mask over the silicon material. The assembly is etched through the entire depth of the silicon material and slightly into the insulator layer of the substrate. Then the metal mask is removed using standard CMOS processes to leave the microring resonator sitting on a pedestal of insulator which can help to optically isolate the sensor.

Recent advances in photonic device fabrication have made it possible to construct very small microring resonators in a variety of materials including glass polymers silicon silicon nitride SiNH silicon oxynitride SiON and III V semiconductors. The choice of material depends upon the particular application. For example in optical signal processing applications like wavelength conversion and high speed optical switching materials with high nonlinear coefficients such as AlGaAs GaAs can be used.

In addition note that in some embodiments the photonic resonator sensors in the planar semiconductor fabrication process described here can be designed for operation in only one light polarization either transverse electric or transverse magnetic . Hence the effect of stochastic polarization clue to mechanical strain on signal input output optical fibers might affect operation of the designed subwavelength resonators and shift the resonance peak slightly. This polarization dependence however can be largely removed using customized commercial polarization maintaining PM fibers that adequately maintain the same polarization over lengths of 1 kilometer or more.

In some embodiments distributed microring and nanophotonic crystal resonator sensors are selectively embedded at sensitive locations within a piece such as a computer chip or mechanical product without interfering with normal operation of the structure. This helps to avoid directly exposing the sensor to external manufacturing environments for example chemicals moisture and contamination. Many structures fabricated in hostile manufacturing environments are metallic. Thus embedding sensors in metal is one method of protecting them while using them in a hostile environment.

One example of a procedure for fabricating and embedding sensors in a metal in accordance with some embodiments is schematically depicted in . First at SiNis deposited using low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD on a Si substrate. As shown in the SiNis coated on both sides of the substrate. The SiNfacilitates the release of the sensors from the substrate later during the procedure. Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD is then used to deposit a first layer SiO which acts as an optical insulator for the sensor and then a layer of SiN e.g. the waveguide material over the LPCVD SiNfilm. In general SiN SiONor another suitable material can be used as the waveguide material as discussed above and as known in the art. In this example the sensors are photonic devices made with the PECVD SiNfilm and have an optically insulating structure formed of SiO. In general any sensor such as the photonic sensors described herein can be embedded in metals using the described procedure.

Next at optical electron beam lithography and reactive ion etching RIE are used to define the photonic sensors within the waveguide material. In some embodiments this is done by using conventional lithographic patterning of photoresist PR as a mask material and RIE is subsequently performed to etch the waveguide material in accordance with the pattern of the PR mask.

Next at the PR is stripped after the etching is complete and SiOis then deposited using PECVD. This oxide layer as well as the one deposited at are used to optically insulate the sensors from the metal layers.

Next at The SiOis patterned using optical electron beam lithography and RIE as described above and as is known in the art. Ti and Ni are optionally sputtered over the resulting structure as adhesion layers.

Next at Ni is electroplated over the structure. The Ni layer is relatively thick e.g. about 1 m and is structurally robust. The LPCVD SiNat the bottom of the substrate is then dry etched from the back side using RIE. Wet etching of the silicon substrate is then done followed by an RIE etch of the remaining SiNlayer immediately beneath the sensors. This frees the sensors from the Si substrate effectively transferring them to the Ni which then acts as a new substrate. Ti and Ni are then optionally sputtered as adhesion layers over the newly exposed SiOsurface which previously was attached to the substrate via the SiNlayer. Ni is then electroplated over the patterned structure substantially embedding the sensors plus the dielectric layers within the metal. The sensors thus embedded can then be readily coupled to a piece for which measurements are desired for example a computer chip or mechanical product. For example in some embodiments a material for which measurements are desired is grown on top of the sensor assembly.

Methods and materials other than those described can be used. For example electroplating can be selected to deposit metals for this application because it works at near room temperature and generates almost no stresses. However other metal deposition processes can additionally or alternatively be used for example laser deposition. Other metals such as stainless steel can also be used. In many embodiments the metal is compatible with standard CMOS process steps.

The number of sensors and their spatial distribution determine the width and length of the embedding thin metal layers. Functionally gradient thin film structures can be designed selected and fabricated to optimize material properties such as thermal conductivity thermal stability diffusion compatibility strength and thermal expansion between optical layers e.g. SiO and metal layers e.g. electroplated nickel . Appropriately selecting properties between adjacent layers can among other things discourage delamination of the layers and improve the performance of the device. With proper choice of components and individual layer thicknesses the property of a multilayer coating can be tailored over the average of the two components. The properties of different materials are well studied and documented. However the growth conditions of the materials such as temperature pressure and deposition rate can also influence the properties of the as grown materials. As is known in the art modest experimentation can be performed in order to obtain recipes for growing materials that are suitable for the particular application.

Optical sensors such as SiO based Fiber Bragg Grating FBG sensors can be successfully embedded into metals e.g. nickel and or stainless steel for temperature and strain measurements in manufacturing processes as shown in and . Single thin film thermocouples e.g. type K alumel chromel can also be embedded into metal as shown in . The embedded sensor can be annealed at 800 C. for 3 hrs in argon. X ray Photo electron Spectroscopy XPS before and after annealing can be used to show that the integrity of the dielectric thin film AlOand SiNlayers are well preserved indicating that photonic sensors fabricated from these materials and embedded in metal will also survive. The sensor pads on the thermocouples can be soldered with fine electrical wires which can then be connected to a PC based data acquisition system for calibration in a temperature controlled oven.

Sub micron optical thin films demonstrate improved properties over their macro optic counterparts. For example amorphous submicron nano SiOand SiNthin films have significantly higher strain limit 3 10 than that of most metals 0.2 1 . In some embodiments the core regions of the optical waveguides can be further optically isolated from the metal surfaces in which they are embedded in order to avoid unacceptably large optical losses due to optical absorption by the metal. This isolation can be achieved by using a cladding layer for example SiO of adequate thickness so that the evanescent waveguide field will be sufficiently weak at the cladding metal interface. Standard analytic tools from integrated optics can be used to compute the appropriate cladding thickness. Single mode waveguides cladded on both sides with a 2.0 m silicon oxide show negligible loss into the substrate.

As mentioned earlier the photonic sensors described herein respond to strain caused by both mechanical and thermal effects. is a schematic of a system for enhancing the sensitivity of microring photonic sensors to mechanically induced strain by providing a thermal reference scheme in accordance with some embodiments. The system includes a first microring resonator a second microring resonator which is suspended on a cantilever a signal waveguide and an output waveguide . Signal waveguide is split by a y splitter into first and second signal waveguides and which lead to first and second microring resonators and respectively substantially as discussed above relative to the single microring resonators. Output waveguide is split by a y splitter into first and second output waveguides and which lead from first and second microring resonators and respectively substantially as discussed above relative to the single microring resonators. The system also includes an optical source not shown that is coupled to signal waveguide and thus to first and second signal waveguides and and a detector not shown that is coupled to output waveguide and thus to first and second output waveguides and .

First microring resonator experiences both mechanical and thermal strain effects arising from its environment. However second microring resonator is suspended on cantilever and thus does not experience significant mechanical strain due to e.g. compressive forces Fon the system although it remains thermally coupled to the system and thus experiences thermal strain effects. In some embodiments signal light from an approximately single wavelength optical source is split at the y splitter. A portion of the signal light is input to the first microring resonator via first signal waveguide and another portion of the light is input to the second microring resonator via second signal waveguide . Because the first and second microring resonators and experience different strain effects they couple differently to the signal light e.g. with different coupling efficiencies. The light that couples to each of the microring resonators then couples as output into the corresponding first or second output waveguide or . Where the first and second output waveguides join at the y splitter the respective outputs from the first and second microring resonators and interfere with each other when the optical path lengths and are designed and fabricated to be sufficiently similar to permit interference between the output signals. The thermal signal from the second resonator destructively interferes with the thermal component of the overall thermal plus mechanical signal from the first resonator such that the main remaining signal component is the mechanical signal as measured by the first resonator. Some embodiments include a subsystem for adjusting the relative optical phases of the output signals from the two resonators in order to enhance their destructive interference optionally under control of the computer processor. Note that in the illustrated embodiment the direction of strain is orthogonal to the direction of light propagating through the system although other configurations can be used.

In other embodiments the first and second microring resonators and are designed and fabricated so as to have slightly different resonant wavelengths and the signal light includes first and second wavelengths that are at or near the resonant wavelengths of the respective resonators. After the signal light couples to the resonators the resulting output signals are joined together by the y splitter and sent to the detector where the thermal signal as measured by the second microring resonator are normalized away or otherwise subtracted from the overall signal thermal plus mechanical as measured by the first microring resonator .

In general different embodiments of photonic sensors e.g. the nanophotonic crystal and microring resonators described herein or other types of sensors can be implemented in this scheme and other interferometric or other kinds of input output arrangements are possible.

In summary photonic sensors such as nanophotonic crystal and microring resonators can be individually designed for a particular application and can have strain sensitivities on the order of 10. The strain sensitivity is inversely proportional to Q and hence the sensors are designed to have as large a Q as possible. In some embodiments photonic resonators are designed to operate in an interference scheme with two coupled resonators and thus have an even higher strain sensitivity e.g. up to order 10strain. The photonic sensors can be fabricated using standard CMOS processing and can be embedded in metals to optimize their performance in hostile manufacturing environments. The photonic sensors can be used to measure in situ strain and temperature effects on computer chips and mechanical elements as they are being fabricated and can also be used to measure residual strains in the chips and elements after fabrication is completed. Although nanophotonic crystals and microring resonators of a particular design are described herein other structures that serve as photonic sensors and that can optionally be embedded in metals can also be used in some embodiments.

In view of the wide variety of embodiments to which the principles of the present invention can be applied it should be understood that the illustrated embodiments are illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. Features of the present invention can be used in any suitable combinations.

