---

title: Systems and methods for a secure recording environment
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for providing secure, captured data in a customer center. In one embodiment, the method comprises: capturing data with a recording system; receiving a request to retrieve electronic keys for encrypting the data; responsive to receiving the request, transmitting the electronic keys to the recording system; encrypting the data using the electronic keys; associating the electronic keys with the encrypted data; and storing the encrypted data in the recording system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290871&OS=08290871&RS=08290871
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08290871
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 479 926 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR A SECURE RECORDING ENVIRONMENT filed on Jun. 30 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure is generally related to methods and systems that provide secure captured data in a customer center.

Security is fast becoming a primary concern as private information is communicated during interactions between a customer and a business particularly at a customer center. Some interactions are captured and stored in a recording system for evaluation of an agent and visualization of performance of the customer center for example. Some captured interactions have private information such as credit card information social security number and date of birth. Clearly this type of information could be subject to identity theft and unlawful access.

Systems and methods are disclosed for providing secure captured data in a customer center. In one embodiment the method comprises capturing data with a recording system receiving a request to retrieve electronic keys for encrypting the data responsive to receiving the request transmitting the electronic keys to the recording system encrypting the data using the electronic keys associating the electronic keys with the encrypted data and storing the encrypted data in the recording system.

Systems and methods are disclosed for retrieving and playing back a secure captured data in a customer center. In another embodiment the method comprises transmitting a request by a retrieval component to retrieve stored encrypted data from a recording subsystem establishing a secure communication between the retrieval component and the recording subsystem to retrieve the stored encrypted data receiving the stored encrypted data by the retrieval component transmitting a request to retrieve electronic keys for decrypting the stored encrypted data receiving the electronic keys by the retrieval component decrypting the stored encrypted data using the electronic keys and playing back the decrypted data.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for providing secure captured data in a customer center. Customer center includes but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example. In particular embodiments of such a system incorporate a key management system which can be located at the customer center that provides secure captured data during collection recording and transmission of the captured data. The key management system provides electronic keys for encrypting and decrypting data. By encrypting the data even if a hacker breaks through all other protection mechanisms e.g. firewalls and gains access to encrypted data the hacker is prevented from being able to read the data without further breaking the encryption.

The communication devices can include but not limited to an Internet Protocol IP soft phone a TDM phone and a computing device. The communication device can communicate with the communication devices or other communication devices via the IP data network and switch . If the communication devices are IP soft phones or computing devices the communication devices can decrypt incoming data from the switch and transmits outgoing data to the switch .

Additionally or alternatively the communication device can encrypt its outgoing data and transmit the outgoing data to the switch . The switch decrypts the outgoing data for the communication device . The encryption of the data at the switch and the communication device provides security to the data of the interactions between users of the communication devices or users of the communication device in the company premises .

The switch and or the communication device transmit encrypted or unencrypted data to one or more recording systems . The data is related to but is not limited to TDM conferencing duplicative and passive for example. Each recording system includes a centralized key management system one or more recording subsystems and one or more playback components all of which are coupled to a network . The recording subsystem includes but is not limited to an active recording buffer an online network storage and an archival system for example. The recording subsystem receives captured data from the switch and or the communication device . The recording subsystem further receives metadata that includes information related to the interaction such as agent identification and call time for example. In general the metadata is transmitted with the data to the recording subsystem . In this regard data includes metadata of an interaction along with the captured audio video screen capture and text messaging signals.

If the data are encrypted the recording subsystem decrypts the data from the switch and or the communication device using electronic keys from the switch and or the communication device respectively. Either the recording subsystem decrypts the data or receives unencrypted data the recording subsystem then transmits a request to the centralized key management system for an electronic key to encrypt the data. The recording subsystem generates a unique identifier which can be calculated based on a checksum or hash value of the data for example. The recording subsystem associates the unique identifier with the captured data. The request can include but not limited to unique identifiers associated with the captured data and authentication information.

Unique identifiers are codes used to identify the captured data that are unique within a given context. There are three ways among others of generating unique identifiers 1 serial numbers allocated in sequence 2 random numbers selected from a number space much larger than the expected number of objects to be identified and 3 meaningful names or codes allocated by choice which are forced to be unique by keeping a central registry. All of the above methods can be combined hierarchically singly or in combination with one another to create scalable schemes for creating unique identifiers. In many cases the captured data may have more than one unique identifier each of which identifies it for a different purpose.

Hash value is computed from a base input number using a hashing algorithm. Essentially the hash value is a summary of the original value. The hash value is nearly impossible to derive the original input number without knowing the data used to create the hash value.

The centralized key management system receives the request from the recording subsystem and determines whether the recording subsystem has authentication via an authentication system to retrieve electronic keys. The centralized key management system generates electronic keys for decrypting and encrypting data. The electronic keys can be used as active keys inactive keys and random semi random and sequential rotations of keys. The centralized key management system can generate key identification associated with the generated electronic keys based on a checksum or hash value of the data.

Responsive to the recording subsystem having authentication the centralized key management system selects an electronic key for encrypting the captured data. The centralized key management system generates a key identification for each electronic key and associates the key identification with the electronic key. Additionally or alternatively the centralized key management system associates the electronic keys with the unique identifier. The generated keys are maintained until the associated data are removed from the encrypted recording environment . The unique identifier can be used to obtain the electronic key from the centralized key management system . The structure of the electronic key is described in relation to .

The centralized key management system transmits the electronic keys to the recording subsystem . The recording subsystem receives the electronic keys and encrypts the captured data using the electronic keys. Alternatively or additionally the recording subsystem can associate the key identification with the encrypted data. The key identification can be used to obtain the electronic key from the centralized key management system . The encrypted data are stored in the recording subsystem . Additionally or alternatively the recording subsystem includes a database of metadata and key identifications. The recording subsystem uses the metadata to retrieve the stored encrypted data. The metadata is associated with the key identifications which the recording subsystem uses to retrieve the electronic keys from the centralized key management system . The structures of the encrypted data and metadata are described in relation to .

Additionally or alternatively the centralized key management system can transmit the electronic keys maintained in the centralized key management system to a cache located in the recording subsystem . The cache is a secure non volatile component. The cache can store active keys and inactive keys. The keys stored in the cache can be updated via the centralized key management system . The cache can be receive a request for the electronic key from a retrieval system such as the recording subsystem the playback component or a third party playback component . The request includes a unique identifier associated with the data and or key identification associated with the electronic key. The cache uses the unique identifier and or key identification to provide the electronic keys to the retrieval system. The cache transmits the electronic key via the network and or IP data network . The encryption of the data by the recording subsystem provides security during the transmission and storage of the data in the recording system . The retrieval process of the electronic keys allows the encrypted data to migrate to different retrieval systems using the associated electronic keys for decrypting the data.

There are various encryption methods. For example in symmetric key encryption each computer has a secret key code that the computer use to encrypt a packet of information before the packet is sent over the network to another computer. Symmetric keys are installed into computers that communicate with each other. Symmetric key encryption is essentially the same as a secret code that each computer knows to decode the information. The code provides the key for decoding the message. An analogy of the encryption is that a first person creates a coded message and sends the message to a second person. To decrypt the message each letter is substituted with the letter that is two down from it in the alphabet. So A becomes C and B becomes D . The second person knows the encryption method that the code is Shift by 2 . The second person receives the message and decodes it. Anyone else who sees the message will see only nonsense.

Another encryption method is public key encryption that uses a combination of a private key and a public key. Each private key is assigned to a first computer while the public key is given by the first computer to any other computers that wants to communicate securely with the first computer. To decode an encrypted message the other computers use the public key provided by the first computer and their own private keys. One public key encryption utility is called Pretty Good Privacy PGP .

Public key encryption takes a lot of computing so many systems use a combination of public key and symmetry key encryption. When two computers initiate a secure session one computer creates a symmetric key and sends it to the other computer using public key encryption. The two computers can then communicate using symmetric key encryption. Once the session is finished each computer discards the symmetric key used for that session. Any additional sessions require that a new symmetric key be created and the process is repeated.

Additionally or alternatively the recording system encrypts incoming and outgoing data from multiple respective communication devices associated with multiple respective interactions. Additionally or alternatively the recording system can instruct the communication device to transmit incoming and outgoing data to a conference bridge . Responsive to receiving the instruction the communication device transmits incoming and outgoing data to the conference bridge which duplicates and transmits the data to the recording system . In other words the recording system observes the calls extensions of the interactions via the conference bridge to get a copy of the data. The conference bridge can camp on a specific extension if the switch permits and receive the data from the communication device for the interactions as long as the recording system is observing the extension.

Additionally or alternatively the recording system communicating with a VoIP switch can also get the decryption information for active VoIP streams which can be used for real time or post call decryption of the data. Additionally or alternatively the centralized key management system continues to use associated electronic keys from the switch management system for the transmission and storage of the data in the recording system . However the manufacturer of the switch management system currently discourages the use of this security method because this increases the risk of hackers cracking their security through the centralized key management system . Hackers external and internal to a company can use vendor default passwords and other vendor default settings to compromise systems. These passwords and settings can be easily discovered in hacker communities and easily determined via public information.

The playback component a third party playback component or another recording subsystem can retrieve the stored data from the recording subsystem . The retrieval components can be for example a desktop computer that plays and or displays audio video screen capture and text messaging data on the speaker and monitor respectively. Responsive to receiving a request from the retrieval components an authorization process may be required for the retrieval components before communicating with each other. For example the recording subsystem determines whether the retrieval components have authentication via the authentication system to receive the requested data. If the retrieval components have authentication the recording subsystem transmits the stored data to the retrieval components . If the retrieval components play back the stored data the retrieval components can retrieve the electronic keys from the centralized key management system and or cache using key identification associated with the encrypted data or the unique identifier of the encrypted data that is associated with the electronic key. The retrieval components decrypt the requested data using the associated electronic key and play back the requested data.

Additionally or alternatively a secure tunnel may be established among the retrieval components before stored data and electronic keys are transmitted and received among the retrieval components. For example a secure sockets layer SSL is a cryptographic protocol which provide secure communications on the network e.g. Internet for data such things as e mail and internet faxing. The SSL protocol exchanges data. Each data can be optionally compressed encrypted and packed with a message authentication code MAC . Each data can have a content type field that specifies which upper level protocol is being used. When the retrieval components connect with the recording subsystem connection the data level encapsulates another protocol the handshake protocol which has the content type.

For example a ClientHello message is transmitted specifying the list of cipher suites compression methods and the highest protocol version being supported. Random bytes can be transmitted. A ServerHello message is received in which the server chooses the connection parameters from the choices offered by the client earlier. When the connection parameters are known the retrieval components exchange certificates depending on the selected public key cipher . These certificates are currently X.509 which is an international Telecommunication union ITU standard. The retrieval components can request a certificate from another retrieval component so that the connection can be mutually authenticated. the retrieval components negotiate a common secret called master secret possibly using the result of a Diffie Hellman exchange or simply encrypting a secret with a public key that is decrypted with the peer s private key. All other key data is derived from this master secret and the client and server generated random values which is passed through a Pseudo Random Function . Once the retrieval components have authentication the stored data are secure to be passed among the retrieval components .

Additionally or alternatively the recording subsystem transmits the requested data to the centralized key management system for decryption and instructs the system to transmit the decrypted data to the playback components . Additionally or alternatively the recording subsystem uses the key identification associated with the encrypted data to obtain the electronic key from the cache and transmits the requested data along with the associated electronic key to the retrieval components . Additionally or alternatively the recording subsystem uses the key identification associated with the encrypted data to obtain the electronic key from the cache and transmits the requested data along with the associated electronic key to the retrieval components . In the various alternative embodiments mentioned above the transmission of the data to the playback component from the recording system are secure by providing encrypted data via a secure tunnel or an authentication process.

The company premises receives encrypted or unencrypted data from the switch and or the communication device . The received data are transmitted to the recording subsystem which includes a local key management system LKMS . Similar to the centralized key management system of the LKMS provides electronic keys for encrypting the received data. The recording subsystem encrypts the received data using the electronic keys and stores the encrypted data. The LKMS can transmit a duplicate copy of the electronic keys to LKMS and LKMS located in the playback component and third party playback component via the network and IP data network respectively. The playback components can transmit a request for the electronic keys to the LKMSs to decrypt the encrypted data.

For example the recording subsystem encrypts and stores data from the company premises using an electronic key from the LKMS . The LKMS communicates with the LKMSs via a secure method. The playback components can retrieve the stored encrypted data from the recording subsystem . In addition the playback components can retrieve the associated electronic key from the LKMSs respectively using associated key identifications and or unique identifiers.

In block the key management system generates an electronic key to encrypt the data. In block the key management system associates the electronic key with the data. Alternatively or additionally the request can be transmitted to a cache that provides an electronic key for encryption of the data. As mentioned above the cache stores a duplicate copy of at least one electronic keys from the key management system.

In block either the key management system or cache transmits generated electronic keys via a network. In block the recording system encrypts the data using the transmitted keys. In some embodiments the data are encrypted to include the key identifications of the transmitted keys. In block the recording system stores the encrypted data. In block the recording system receives a request for stored data. The recording system can determine whether a retrieval component has authentication to retrieve the stored data. In block responsive to the determining that the retrieval component has authentication the recording system transmits the stored data via the network. In block the recording system transmits a request to the key management system or cache to retrieve the associated electronic key for decrypting the stored data. The request for decryption includes the key identification or the unique identifier or both which the key management system or cache uses to determine the proper electronic key for decryption of the encrypted data. In block the stored data are decrypted using the electronic keys.

In blocks and the key management system associates the generated or selected electronic keys with unique identifiers of the data and transmits the electronic keys for encrypting and decrypting the data respectively. Alternatively or additionally the request can include a key identification that the key management system uses to select the electronic key for decryption of the stored data. In block the key management system manages the electronic keys for at least the life of the associated data.

Alternatively or additionally if a recording subsystem transmits a request for encryption the cache transmits the electronic key along with the key identification to the retrieval component. The recording subsystem encrypts the data and associates the key identification with the encrypted data. To decrypt the data the retrieval component can request to the cache for the electronic key that is associated with the key identification and or the unique identifier. In block the cache transmits the associated electronic keys for encrypting and decrypting the data. In block the cache manages the electronic keys for at least the life of the data.

Alternatively or additionally in blocks and the recording subsystem receives a request to move stored data to a second recording subsystem and determines whether the second recording subsystem has authentication to store the data respectively. In block the recording subsystem moves the data to the second recording subsystem.

In block both recording subsystems can receive a request from a playback component for the stored data. In block each recording subsystem determines whether the playback component has authentication to retrieve stored data. In block each recording subsystem transmits a request to a key management system or cache to retrieve associated electronic keys for decrypting the stored data. In blocks each recording subsystem transmits stored data.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

