---

title: Electronic multi-language-to-multi-language translation method and system
abstract: An electronic multi-language-to-multi-language translation method and system is disclosed. The system includes a first user to communicate in a first language, a server, where the first user and the server are in communication, a second user to communicate in a second language, and a translation engine on a remote server. A message in the first language is transmitted by the first user to the second user via the server, where the message is forwarded to the translation engine to translate the message to the second language and transmit a translated message back to the second user for display. The message may be forwarded to the translation engine by a local application of the second user. In addition, the system may include a database in communication with the server to store the user's profile to identify the preferred language of the user. The message may be stored by the database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386233&OS=08386233&RS=08386233
owner: Exling, LLC
number: 08386233
owner_city: Altamonte Springs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 334 227 filed May 13 2010. The disclosure of the provisional application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure is generally related to an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system using a client server network structure for social networking services including but not limited to chatting blogging email SMS news commenting and micro blogging.

Currently there are several designs that show common computer to computer architecture as the device structure for electronic language translation of data. The designs may include resolving the language to language L2L translation process over the Internet or a network. A few examples of L2L translations may include U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 987 401 6 092 035 and 6 161 082. A shortcoming of the prior art is that the user is required to manually manage the user s language each time a different platform is accessed.

Further there may be particular parameters that need to accompany the data to assist the L2L translation. These parameters may include identifying the source and destination languages recipient information and a field of text for purpose of translation. It is also may be necessary to determine if the source text is in need of translation initially by comparing the source and recipient languages. Hence there is a need in the art for a method and system that associates a user s parameters with a user identification and password so that once the user logs into the network all content is tailored to their language with no manual setting of language across multiple platforms.

However in view of the prior art at the time the present invention was made it was not obvious to those of ordinary skill in the pertinent art how the identified needs could be fulfilled.

In a particular embodiment an electronic multi language to multi language translation system is disclosed. The system includes a first user to communicate in a first language a server where the first user and the server are in communication a second user to communicate in a second language and a translation engine on a remote server. A message in the first language is transmitted by the first user to the second user via the server where the message is forwarded to the translation engine to translate the message to the second language and transmit a translated message back to the second user for display. The message may be forwarded to the translation engine by a local application of the second user. In addition the system may include a database in communication with the server to store the user s profile to identify the preferred language of the user. The message may be stored by the database.

In another particular illustrative embodiment the server interrogates the database for the second user profile and the server retrieves the message and the second user profile. The message is forwarded by the server to the translation engine which transmits the translated message back to the server and the server transmits the translated message to the second user for display. The first user or the second user may communicate with the server using a personal computer or an electronic cellular device.

In a particular illustrative embodiment the electronic multi language to multi language translation system includes an email server and the message is an email message. The email message may be broken into a plurality of blocks before transmitting to the translation engine when the maximum size of email message is exceeded. The email message that is forwarded to the translation engine is transmitted back to the server and the server transmits the translated email message to the email server. In addition the system includes a third party email server to receive the translated email message and to forward the translated email message to the second user via the third party email server.

In another particular illustrative embodiment an electronic multi language to multi language translation system includes a news request from a user a server where the user and the server are in communication a database in communication with the server a user profile to identify a first language of the user where the user profile is stored by the database. Further the system includes a news source where the server fetches a news story in a second language from the news source in response to the news request the news story is indexed by a source link unique identifier so that user comments are possible by all users in all languages and a translation engine on a remote server where the server transmits the news story to the translation engine to translate the news story to the first language and transmit the translated news story back to the user for display. The news story may be broken into a plurality of blocks before transmitting to the translation engine when the maximum size of the news story is exceeded.

In another particular illustrative embodiment an electronic multi language to multi language translation method is disclosed. The method includes accessing a server by a first user in a first language transmitting a message in the first language to a second user via the server forwarding the message to a translation engine to translate the message to a second language of the second user and transmitting a translated message back to the second user for display. The method may include using a local application of the second user to forward the message to the translation engine for translation or using the server to forward the message to the translation engine. The second language of the second user may be retrieved from a database and the server may be used to transmit the translated message to the second user for display. In addition the method may include transmitting the translated message from the translation engine back to the server and forwarding the translated message from the server to an email server where the email server transmits the translated message to a third party email server that transmits the translated message to the second user.

The method may also include fetching a news story in the second language from a news source in response to a news request by the first user where the news story is indexed by a source link unique identifier so that user comments are possible by all users in all languages translating the news story to the first language using a remote translation engine and transmitting the translated news story back to the user via the server for display.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system includes user initiated communication and user posted information over a communication network. Language settings are stored and accessed by a username and a password protected profile of the network. As a result web based processes are independent of operating systems or devices so that mobile devices laptops and desktops alike are capable to use these services. Some types of communication methods and translation application programming interface API technologies are currently available but the new and additional functionality and processes of the electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system described herein include settings to manage the user s language settings that are associated with the user ID and password. Once the user logs into the network the content is tailored to the user s language and no manual setting of language is needed to be repeatedly asked of once the user is defined. The content however is user initiated so if the user chats with another user the user initiates the content or receives the content which is initiated by another user. Each user s profile is used to set the source and destination languages respectively. If the user chooses to read a blog of another user that is not their language in source profile then the entry would be translated and served to the user in their language and similar for news and other features. All content on the site would act accordingly as requested. The end result of this process is a profiled user may communicate seamlessly on multiple platforms obtain information sources across borders and language barriers and communicate with other users outside their normal verbal skills in their own native language.

The term automatic is used herein to define a one time programmable configured or environment variable that is user defined and stored in a user profile. Content served to and from a server is not automated to allow all users to have control on which content is initiated to their webpage. The term electronic is used herein in the form of a file web protocol or similar electronic data medium that data or text may be serviced to a computing system. The term Language to Language L2L Translation is described herein as process of receiving a user text input in a first language and outputting a text in a second language. This is not limited to two users but can be applied to any single sender and any number of recipients. Each pair of languages and settings would consist of a transaction through this process. The term Client Server Network Structure is used herein to define a network of computing client systems linked by a Server and Server database. The term Networking or Network is used herein to describe a website constructed to allow a user login and password rights and permissions settings and other content to be chronicled communication via blog micro blog email and chat from user to user. This networking may initially be released as social networking for user initiated content but the process should not be limited to this function in scope. User Profile Parameters may include but are not limited to 

The term Environmentally Set Profile is used herein to define a set of parameters set by the environment context of the discussion that is specific and necessary for a proper translation model. These may include but are not limited to 

The term Common Sense is used when a specific component is a common sense attribute that is not a specific dynamic of the process but must be clarified to describe the process in whole.

One advantage of the invention is that it requires only a one time programmable setting. Instant Messaging in the same language exists and can be excluded but L2L instant messaging repeatedly from a variety of users may be difficult to configure each session or message especially on first time communication. The electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system is specific and unique in overall automatic function process and methodology for storing the profile and settings as well as structure and environment that will serve the content to multiple users.

The electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system may include the translation itself or process for L2L translation. Alternatively the method and system may assume the use of a translation API which would be available to the market. The electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system may use for example commonly known services like Google. For implementation on a product this should not be assumed or limited to this provider. The translation API is generalized. The electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system described may operate with specific minimum parameters suited for definition and process but more complex parameters in this process may be assumed for application.

The device connection for this implementation may be over a network in a client server architecture such that two 2 or more client computers are engaging in communications and are linked via a common server hosting. For example a user may go to the electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system website via the Internet and request an account profile. This process allows for the user to create a Username Password. With this service login account the user may begin to establish and configure service account details. At minimum this will have some security parameters require a terms of use agreement and specify a variety of parameters about the user that are essential to the accuracy and function of electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system.

A user account profile may include but is not limited to the native language and dialect of the user for example English United States their gender male female and their age at the time of account creation. These parameters are required for some specific L2L translations for sake of example but other environmental and settings could be added to improve the resulting quality. It is implied that this type of information is stored in a database by user profile and for sake of example these are the types of criteria chronicled.

The user may then login repeatedly and these settings will be applied. They may also enter a settings page to later make adjustments to these settings. The user may then through the site engage in a conversation with one or more other users.

With all client programs initialized and profiled a multi lingual communication or content may be accessed. The user can then access any user s content comments blog micro blog chat email as the recipient and view the content in their own language if they initiate an interest to view that content. A user in this session can begin to communicate in their native language with others also even if they speak other languages.

The method and system will vary based upon the type of communication. Each method and system below will be described accordingly and a diagram to show the logic flow will be noted.

Referring now to a particular illustrative embodiment of an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system for communication chatting is disclosed. The desktop chatting application is installed locally on the originating user s and destination user s machines respectively for the translation to take effect. A chat message is sent to the chat server e.g. msn yahoo jabber over an Internet connection . The chat server recognizes which friend e.g. destination user to send the message to and hence sends the message to the destination user s machine . The application running on the destination user s machine receives the message and sends it to the translation API such as Google translation engine over an Internet connection for translation. The translation engine translates the messages and sends them back to the destination user s machine where the desktop application is running He she then receives the translated message in his her language where it is displayed.

In the illustrative embodiments described above and below the server may have two servers running for hosting two different applications one may be professional and social community site and the other may be a mobile community site. The professional and social community site may be running on an Apache server whereas the mobile community site may be running on a Tomcat 6 servlet container. The database server may also be hosted on the same machine and may use a MySQL database.

Referring now to a particular illustrative embodiment of an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system for mobile messaging is disclosed. The client logs into the mobile community site using a mobile device over an Internet connection and uses the personal message feature to write a message and send it to a friend destination user . The message is then sent to the application server where the application is hosted. The message is stored in the database against the destination user s userid. The destination user requests for any new messages that are sent to him to the application server . The application server retrieves the messages as well as the destination user s language from the database . The messages are then sent to translation engine API a service provided by companies such as Google Translation over an Internet connection for translating it to the destination user s language. The translated messages are sent back to the application server . The application server sends the translated message to the destination user over an Internet connection who requested any new messages that were sent to him by the client . The destination user views the message in his her own language on the mobile device .

Referring now to a particular illustrative embodiment of an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system for website chatting is disclosed. The first user chat initiator who intends to send a message to a second user sends a request using his her machine where the request includes his her user id the recipient s user id the first user language and the message to the community site server over an Internet connection . The server stores the data sent by the first user into a database . The second user uses his her machine to connect to the community site server using an Internet connection . The server checks the database for updates on the second user . The server retrieves the message information from the database along with the second user s language. The server then sends the message along with the first user s and second user s language to the translation server API a provider such as Google Translation for translation. The translation server returns the translated message to the community site server where the server returns the translated message to the second user .

Referring now to a particular illustrative embodiment of a particular illustrative embodiment of an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system for email is disclosed. For example the client writes an email on his machine and sends it to the destination address over an Internet connection . The request is sent to the application server with the email body and the destination user s email address. The server then retrieves the destination user s language using the email address. The application server may break the email body into chunks of messages containing a set number of characters such as 1200 characters to comply with the translation API specifications. Some translation engine APIs do not put limits on the translation block size however if the API requires compliance then the method and system may include this feature. The application server sends the request to the translation engine e.g. Google Translation over an Internet connection which is hosted by the API s server containing the 1200 characters for translation. The application server may send multiple such requests based on the number of 1200 character chunks. Each of the chunks of messages is translated by the translation engine and is sent back to the application server . Once all the chunks are translated they are put together into once continuous email message and sent to the email server . The email server resolves who to send the message to and forwards the email to the destination email server using simple mail transfer protocol. For example if the email is sent from john exling.com to jack gmail.com the email server would forward the email to a gmail server . The third party email server e.g. gmail determines who the email is destined for and then sends the email to the end user s machine over an Internet connection . The user then gets the email in his language.

Referring now to a particular illustrative embodiment of an electronic multi language to multi language translation method and system for RSS news feed translation is disclosed. The user uses his her machine to sign in to the professional community site over an Internet connection and makes a request for News content from a given source which means that a request to the application server is sent for all the news to appear on the home page. The application server retrieves the language of the user requesting for the news from the database . The application server locates the news source which is predefined and fetches the news from the RSS feed provided by the news source over an Internet connection . The news is then indexed by source link by a unique identifier for each of the news stories so that user comments will be possible by all users in all languages. The application server then retrieves the news from the database and sends to the translation engine for translation over an Internet connection . The entire news block may not be sent for translation rather the news may be broken into a brief synopsis of the story and the headline only to improve performance then with a click by the user processes the full story. The API used in this process may require the story to be broken into blocks of text due to the limits of the API s translation block so the story may require to be broken into sections translated then reassembled by the application server in some situations. The application server then organizes the chunks of data into one complete full news story that is displayed to the client .

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The ASIC may reside in a computing device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosed embodiments. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope possible consistent with the principles and novel features as defined herein.

