---

title: Integrated docking station
abstract: A docking station is provided for a laptop computer that has access to at least one connector and at least one push button. The docking station includes upper and lower portions. The upper portion has an aft bridge, a starboard arm and a port arm, each the arm having a lip, at least one of the arms having at least one cavity through a top surface for correspondently receiving the push button, and at least one of the arms having at least one orifice for correspondently receiving the connector. The lower portion has an aft spine, a starboard side, a front spine and a port side that bound a base. The computer can be disposed on the base. The lower portion includes front plates at corners to the starboard and port sides. The upper portion is disposed on the lower portion such that each lip aligns to the corresponding plate. The upper and lower portions are secured by mechanical fasteners, such as screws.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08289698&OS=08289698&RS=08289698
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08289698
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to integrated docking stations. In particular the invention relates to ruggedized docking stations for encapsulating a military grade laptop computer.

The majority of weapons systems require controls for executing computer operations and mechanical commands. This can be accomplished with a computer docking station with appropriate interface devices.

Conventional docking stations yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a docking station for a laptop computer that has access to at least one connector and at least one push button. The docking station includes upper and lower portions.

The upper portion has an aft bridge a starboard arm and a port arm each the arm having a lip at least one of the arms having at least one cavity through a top surface for correspondently receiving the push button and at least one of the arms having at least one orifice for correspondently receiving the connector. The lower portion has an aft spine a starboard side a front spine and a port side that bound a base.

The computer can be disposed on the base. The lower portion includes front plates at corners to the starboard and port sides. The upper portion is disposed on the lower portion such that each lip aligns to the corresponding plate. The upper and lower portions are secured by mechanical fasteners such as screws.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

A conventional docking station has been developed but this has not satisfied requirements regarding safety and reliability for weapon system operation. The conventional docking station demonstrated susceptibility to the minor shock and vibration thereby causing the weapon system to shut down. In addition the conventional docking station lacked environmental seals or accessibility to facilitate maintenance and could not be reconfigured for alternate mission objectives. In order to simplify the operation of the weapon system an integrated docking station IDS is required. The station provides the operator with a single hand held device for operating the weapon system.

The Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren Division NSWCDD Integrated Docking Station IDS is an aluminum 14.5 in 10.5 in enclosure for the CF 19 Toughdock computer that enables integration of various weapons systems using gun fire control switches while maintaining target control access through the CF 19. The IDS is environmentally sealed and satisfies all military specifications Mil Spec providing external access for a universal serial bus USB Ethernet and power using Mil Spec connectors.

The overall design has been ruggedized in order to prolong the operational life of the product as has been demonstrated analytically by computational structural analysis and empirically by drop tests. Various configurations for the gun fire control switches have been implemented in order to provide cross program integration of this system.

Round access ports and of various sizes are disposed along the lateral edge of the starboard arm . The first round porthole provides for an Ethernet cable jack that connects internally to the Toughdock. The second round porthole provides the USB connection for the Toughdock. The third round porthole provides for a trigger access associated with the porthole on the starboard arm . The fourth round port provides an access for a power supply that recharges an internal battery of the Toughdock. A top surface of the bridge and the arms represents the upper extremity of the upper portion at which the portholes emerge. Near the corners of the bridge are holes not shown from a bottom surface opposite the top surface .

An Ethernet Mighty Mouse connector provides an Ethernet cable plug for the Toughdock and protrudes through the porthole . A USB Mighty Mouse connector provides a USB plug for the Toughdock and protrudes through the porthole . A command port Might Mouse connector protrudes through the porthole and provides external access for the buttons that operate trigger arming and misfire commands. The connector also enables the operator to connect to an external weapons system into the Toughdock .

In the early stages of developing the IDS for the CF 19 Toughdock many commercial off the shelf COTS docking station designs were considered for the project. Although they provided the basic need of securing the laptop the docks failed to include other criteria which are vital to military usage. A redesign of the IDS based on a commercial product was developed by NSWCDD. The ToughBook IDS was assigned various criteria to satisfy within its design.

In order to meet these criteria extensive modifications were applied to previous docking models. In the initial approach the initial dimensions and similar form of the previous model was maintained. However the alterations incorporated improvements to facilitating access for maintenance as well as greater convenience in assembly and disassembly. A preliminary model demonstrated utility for numerous applications. With this dexterity additional criteria were added to the design to be applied to other projects. The final design varied slightly to the preliminary model to achieve the following specifications waterproof mil spec connections cross program integration drop test of four feet above ground compatibility with a CF 19 ToughBook as well as fire control switch integration for a gun weapons system.

The primary setback of this design was it was non environmentally sealed structurally weak and poorly designed setup. The qualifications and goals applied in the design presented in this report were generated based primarily on cross project integration use. Various qualifications included waterproofing military spec connections survive a drop test of four feet integration for gun fire control switches and as mentioned previously cross project integration.

The methodology for the design of the docking station used military specs along with a set of criteria it needed to meet. In addition the design intended the station to be ergonomically productive in that the design of the docking station was not bulky light weight and easy to assemble. The criteria included the following 

The finalized design for the docking station met all criteria as well as incorporated other non demanding qualifications. On the starboard arm are various mil spec connectors for various uses such as USB Ethernet ToughBook charger etc. The CF 19 Toughbook slides into place on the upper portion and attaches via bolt holes placed on the underneath side of the lower portion . The CF 19 Toughbook is mounted at the four extrudes supported by each L foot . The connectors and are jam nut recaptacles and mount onto the side of the top plate. Each integrated gun control button for triggering is mounted by its own compression between the upper and lower portions and and through its corresponding porthole . The base plate and the front plates are secured to the upper portion using 8 32 screws.

The electrical connections and CF 19 Toughbook are waterproof but the design of the docking station does allow for water to enter. In various exemplary embodiments the IDS includes knife edges and grooves along with rubber seals in order to ensure no water seepage occurs so that the interior of the IDS remains completely waterproof. Other exemplary embodiments provide for alternate materials to comprise the frame as well as various different connectors that can be attached to the frame composed of the upper and lower portions .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

