---

title: Data transmission with cross-subframe control in a wireless network
abstract: Techniques for supporting communication in dominant interference scenarios are described. In an aspect, communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported with cross-subframe control. Different base stations may be allocated different subframes for sending control information. Each base station may send control messages in the subframes allocated to that base station. Different base stations may have different timelines for sending control messages due to their different allocated subframes. With cross-subframe control, control information (e.g., grants, acknowledgement, etc.) may be sent in a first subframe and may be applicable for data transmission in a second subframe, which may be a variable number of subframes from the first subframe. In another aspect, messages to mitigate interference may be sent on a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565011&OS=09565011&RS=09565011
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09565011
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100602
---
The present application claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 184 218 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF SUPPORTING RESTRICTED ASSOCIATION RANGE EXTENSION IN HETEROGENEOUS NETWORKS VIA CROSS SUBFRAME CONTROL and Application Ser. No. 61 184 224 entitled TRANSMITTING RESOURCE UTILIZATION MESSAGES ON THE PHYSICAL DOWNLINK CONTROL CHANNEL both filed Jun. 4 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to techniques for supporting data transmission in a wireless communication network.

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication content such as voice video packet data messaging broadcast etc. These wireless networks may be multiple access networks capable of supporting multiple users by sharing the available network resources. Examples of such multiple access networks include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks Time Division Multiple Access TDMA networks Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA networks Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA networks and Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA networks.

A wireless communication network may include a number of base stations that can support communication for a number of user equipments UEs . A UE may communicate with a base station via the downlink and uplink. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the base station to the UE and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the UE to the base station.

A base station may transmit data to one or more UEs on the downlink and may receive data from one or more UEs on the uplink. On the downlink data transmission from the base station may observe interference due to data transmissions from neighbor base stations. On the uplink data transmission from each UE may observe interference due to data transmissions from other UEs communicating with the neighbor base stations. For both the downlink and uplink the interference due to the interfering base stations and interfering UEs may degrade performance.

Techniques for supporting communication in dominant interference scenarios are described herein. A dominant interference scenario is a scenario in which a UE or a base station observes high interference which may severely degrade data transmission performance.

In an aspect communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported with cross subframe control. Different base stations may be allocated different subframes for sending control information. Each base station may send control messages in the subframes allocated to that base station. Different base stations may have different timelines for sending control messages due to their different allocated subframes. With cross subframe control control information e.g. grants acknowledgement etc. may be sent in a first subframe and may be applicable for data transmission in a second subframe which may be a variable number of subframes from the first subframe.

In one design control information may be exchanged e.g. sent or received in a first subframe. Data may be exchanged in a second subframe based on the control information exchanged in the first subframe. The second subframe may be a variable number of subframes from the first subframe. Acknowledgement may be exchanged in a third subframe for the data exchanged in the second subframe. The third subframe may also be a variable number of subframes from the second subframe.

In another aspect messages to mitigate interference may be sent on a physical downlink control channel PDCCH . In one design a base station may send a message on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference. The base station may thereafter exchange e.g. send or receive data on resources having reduced interference due to the message sent on the PDCCH. In one design a UE may monitor for messages sent by at least one base station on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference. The UE may exchange data on resources having reduced interference due to the messages sent by the at least one base station on the PDCCH.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication networks such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other networks. The terms network and system are often used interchangeably. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA WCDMA and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A are new releases of UMTS that use E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE A and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . The techniques described herein may be used for the wireless networks and radio technologies mentioned above as well as other wireless networks and radio technologies. For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for LTE and LTE terminology is used in much of the description below.

An eNB may provide communication coverage for a macro cell a pico cell a femto cell and or other types of cell. A macro cell may cover a relatively large geographic area e.g. several kilometers in radius and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A pico cell may cover a relatively small geographic area and may allow unrestricted access by UEs with service subscription. A femto cell may cover a relatively small geographic area e.g. a home and may allow restricted access by UEs having association with the femto cell e.g. UEs in a Closed Subscriber Group CSG . An eNB for a macro cell may be referred to as a macro eNB. An eNB for a pico cell may be referred to as a pico eNB. An eNB for a femto cell may be referred to as a femto eNB or a home eNB HeNB . In the example shown in an eNB may be a macro eNB for a macro cell an eNB may be a pico eNB for a pico cell and an eNB may be a femto eNB for a femto cell . An eNB may support one or multiple e.g. three cells. The terms eNB base station and cell may be used interchangeably herein.

Wireless network may also include relay stations. A relay station may be an entity that can receive a transmission of data from an upstream station e.g. an eNB or a UE and send a transmission of the data to a downstream station e.g. a UE or an eNB . A relay station may also be a UE that can relay transmissions for other UEs. In the example shown in a relay station may communicate with a UE via an access link and with macro eNB via a backhaul link in order to facilitate communication between eNB and UE . A relay station may also be referred to as a relay eNB a relay base station a relay etc.

Wireless network may be a heterogeneous network that includes eNBs of different types e.g. macro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs relay eNBs etc. These different types of eNBs may have different transmit power levels different coverage areas and different impact on interference in wireless network . For example macro eNBs may have a high transmit power level e.g. 5 to 40 Watts whereas pico eNBs femto eNBs and relay eNBs may have lower transmit power levels e.g. 0.1 to 2 Watts .

A network controller may couple to a set of eNBs and may provide coordination and control for these eNBs. Network controller may communicate with the eNBs via a backhaul. The eNBs may also communicate with one another e.g. directly or indirectly via a wireless or wireline backhaul.

UEs may be dispersed throughout wireless network and each UE may be stationary or mobile. A UE may also be referred to as a mobile station a terminal an access terminal a subscriber unit a station etc. A UE may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem a wireless communication device a handheld device a laptop computer a cordless phone a wireless local loop WLL station a smart phone a netbook a smartbook etc. A UE may be able to communicate with macro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs relay eNBs etc. In a solid line with double arrows indicates desired transmissions between a UE and a serving eNB which is an eNB designated to serve the UE on the downlink and or uplink. A dashed line with double arrows indicates interfering transmissions between a UE and an eNB.

LTE utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM on the downlink and single carrier frequency division multiplexing SC FDM on the uplink. OFDM and SC FDM partition a frequency range into multiple N orthogonal subcarriers which are also commonly referred to as tones bins etc. Each subcarrier may be modulated with data. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDM. The spacing between adjacent subcarriers may be fixed and the total number of subcarriers N may be dependent on the system bandwidth. For example Nmay be equal to 128 256 512 1024 or 2048 for system bandwidth of 1.25 2.5 5 10 or 20 megahertz MHz respectively. The system bandwidth may also be partitioned into a number of subbands and each subband may cover a range of frequencies e.g. 1.08 MHz.

The available time frequency resources for each of the downlink and uplink may be partitioned into resource blocks. Each resource block may cover 12 subcarriers in one slot and may include a number of resource elements. Each resource element may cover one subcarrier in one symbol period and may be used to send one modulation symbol which may be a real or complex value.

In LTE an eNB may transmit a physical control format indicator channel PCFICH a physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel PHICH and a physical downlink control channel PDCCH in the control region of a subframe. The PCFICH may convey the size of the control region e.g. the value of M . The PHICH may carry acknowledgement ACK and negative acknowledgement NACK feedback for data transmission sent on the uplink with hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The PDCCH may carry downlink grants uplink grants and or other control information. The eNB may also transmit a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH in the data region of a subframe. The PDSCH may carry data for UEs scheduled for data transmission on the downlink.

Subframe format may be used for an eNB equipped with two antennas. A cell specific reference signal CRS may be transmitted from antennas and in symbol periods and . A reference signal is a signal that is known a priori by a transmitter and a receiver and may also be referred to as pilot. A CRS is a reference signal that is specific for a cell e.g. generated based on a cell identity ID . In for a given resource element with label R a modulation symbol may be sent on that resource element from antenna a and no modulation symbols may be sent on that resource element from other antennas. Subframe format may be used for an eNB equipped with four antennas. A CRS may be transmitted from antennas and in symbol periods and and from antennas and in symbol periods and . For both subframe formats and a CRS may be transmitted on evenly spaced subcarriers which may be determined based on the cell ID. Different eNBs may transmit CRSs for their cells on the same or different subcarriers depending on the cell IDs of these cells. For both subframe formats and resource elements not used for the CRS may be used to transmit data or control information.

A UE may be assigned resource blocks in the control region to send control information to an eNB. The UE may also be assigned resource blocks in the data region to send data to the eNB. The UE may send control information on a physical uplink control channel PUCCH on assigned resource blocks and in the control region. The UE may send only data or both data and control information on a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH on assigned resource blocks and in the data region. An uplink transmission may span both slots of a subframe and may hop across frequency as shown in .

The PCFICH PDCCH PHICH PDSCH PUCCH PUSCH and CRS in LTE are described in 3GPP TS 36.211 entitled Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation which is publicly available.

A UE may be located within the coverage of multiple eNBs. One of these eNBs may be selected to serve the UE. The serving eNB may be selected based on various criteria such as received signal strength received signal quality pathloss etc. Received signal quality may be quantified by a signal to noise and interference ratio SINR or some other metric.

A UE may operate in a dominant interference scenario in which the UE may observe high interference from one or more interfering eNBs. A dominant interference scenario may occur due to restricted association. For example in UE may be close to femto eNB and may have high received power for eNB . However UE may not be able to access femto eNB due to restricted association and may then connect to macro eNB with lower received power. UE may then observe high interference from femto eNB on the downlink and may also cause high interference to femto eNB on the uplink.

A dominant interference scenario may also occur due to range extension which is a scenario in which a UE connects to an eNB with lower pathloss and possibly lower SINR than some other eNBs detected by the UE. For example in UE may be located closer to pico eNB than macro eNB and may have lower pathloss for pico eNB . However UE may have lower received power for pico eNB than macro eNB due to a lower transmit power level of pico eNB as compared to macro eNB . Nevertheless it may be desirable for UE to connect to pico eNB due to the lower pathloss. Range extension may result in less interference on the uplink for a given data rate for UE . Range extension may also provide cell splitting gain on the downlink since multiple pico eNBs can serve UEs that might otherwise be served by a macro eNB. Range extension may thus improve overall network performance.

A dominant interference scenario may also occur due to relay operation. For example a relay eNB may have a good access link for a UE but a poor backhaul link for a donor eNB serving the relay eNB. The UE may then communicate directly with the donor eNB due to the poor backhaul link of the relay eNB. The UE may then observe high interference from the relay eNB on the downlink and may cause high interference to the relay eNB on the uplink. A dominant interference scenario may also occur when the relay eNB is used for range extension similar to the case of range extension for a pico eNB.

In an aspect communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported with TDM partitioning of downlink control resources used to send control information on the downlink. For TDM partitioning different eNBs may be allocated different time resources. Each eNB may send its control information in its allocated time resources which may have reduced interference e.g. no interference from strong interfering eNBs. Each eNB may avoid sending control information or may send control information at a lower transmit power level in time resources allocated to other eNBs and may avoid causing high interference to the other eNBs. This may enable a UE to communicate with a weaker serving eNB in the presence of a strong interfering eNB. An eNB may be classified as weak or strong based on the received power of the eNB at a UE and not based on the transmit power level of the eNB .

In one design TDM partitioning of downlink control resources may be performed at subframe level. In this design different eNBs may be allocated different sets of subframes. Each eNB may send its control information in the control region of the subframes allocated to that eNB. Each eNB may avoid sending control information or may send control information at a lower transmit power level in the control region of the subframes allocated to other eNBs.

In one design different eNBs may be allocated different interlaces. For example eight interlaces may be defined pico eNB in may be allocated two interlaces and and macro eNB may be allocated the remaining six interlaces. Pico eNB may send its control information in the control region of the subframes in interlaces and and may avoid sending control information in the control region of the subframes in the other six interlaces. Conversely macro eNB may send its control information in the control region of the subframes in interlaces and and may avoid sending control information in the control region of the subframes in the other two interlaces.

Different eNBs may also be allocated different sets of subframes defined in other manners. In general the available subframes may be allocated to any number of eNBs and each eNB may be allocated any set of subframes. Different eNBs may be allocated the same or different numbers of subframes. Each eNB may send its control information in the control region of its allocated subframes and may avoid sending control information or send control information at a lower transmit power level in the control regions of other subframes.

The control region of a subframe may have a configurable size of M symbol periods as described above. Since the control region size can vary an interfering eNB may not know the size of the control region used by a weaker eNB. In one design the interfering eNB may assume the largest possible control region size which may be three symbol periods for system bandwidth of 5 MHz or more in LTE. The interfering eNB may then avoid sending data or control information within the control region of the assumed size. In another design each eNB may have a configured control region size which may be determined via negotiation between eNBs or may be assigned by a designated network entity. An interfering eNB may then clear the control region of another eNB for a number of symbol periods determined by the configured control region size for that other eNB.

In another design TDM partitioning of downlink control resources may be performed at symbol level. In this design different eNBs may be allocated different symbol periods in the control region of each subframe. Each eNB may send its control information in one or more symbol periods allocated to that eNB in the control region of each subframe and may avoid sending control information in the remaining symbol periods of the control region. For example the control region may include M 3 symbol periods pico eNB in may be allocated symbol period in the control region of each subframe and macro eNB may be allocated symbol periods and . Pico eNB may send its control information in symbol period of each subframe and may avoid sending control information in symbol periods and of each subframe. Conversely macro eNB may send its control information in symbol periods and of each subframe and may avoid sending control information in symbol period of each subframe. In general the M symbol periods in the control region of each subframe may be allocated to up to M different eNBs. Each eNB may be allocated one or more symbol periods in the control region.

In yet another design TDM partitioning of downlink control resources may be performed at both subframe and symbol levels. Different eNBs may be allocated different symbol periods in the control region of different subframes. For example eight interlaces may be defined and the control region may include M 3 symbol periods. Macro eNB in may be allocated all three symbols in the control region of subframes in interlaces and and may be allocated symbol period in the control region of each remaining subframe. Pico eNB may be allocated symbol periods and in the control region of subframes in interlaces and .

TDM partitioning of downlink control resources may also be performed in other manners e.g. based on other units of time. In one design different eNBs that can potentially cause high interference to one another may be pre allocated different time resources e.g. by a designated network entity. In another design the eNBs may negotiate e.g. via the backhaul for TDM partitioning to allocate sufficient time resources to each eNB. In general TDM partitioning may be static and not changed or semi static and changed infrequently e.g. every 100 ms or dynamic and changed as often as necessary e.g. every subframe or every radio frame .

In another aspect communication in a dominant interference scenario may be supported with FDM partitioning of uplink control resources used to send control information on the uplink. For FDM partitioning different eNBs may be allocated different frequency resources. The UEs served by each eNB may send control information in the allocated frequency resources which may have reduced interference from UEs communicating with other eNBs. This may enable each eNB to communicate with its UEs in the presence of strong interfering UEs.

UEs communicating with the first eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region formed near the two edges of band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region in the middle of band . UEs communicating with the second eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region formed near the two edges of band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region in the middle of band . UEs communicating with the third eNB may transmit the PUCCH in a control region formed near the two edges of band and may transmit the PUSCH in a data region in the middle of band . Control regions and may be non overlapping as shown in in order to avoid interference on uplink control information for the three eNBs. Control regions and may be defined by different PUCCH offsets and each PUCCH offset may indicate an outer frequency of a control region for an eNB.

It may be desirable to use TDM partitioning for downlink control resources. This may allow the eNBs to transmit the PDCCH across the entire system bandwidth and obtain frequency diversity. However FDM partitioning may also be used for downlink control resources. It may be desirable to use FDM partitioning for uplink control resources. This may allow the UEs to transmit the PUCCH in each subframe to reduce latency. FDM partitioning may not impact the operation of the UEs since the PUCCH is typically transmitted in one or few resource blocks in each slot as shown in . However TDM partitioning may also be used for uplink control resources. For clarity much of the description below assumes TDM partitioning for downlink control resources and FDM partitioning for uplink control resources.

Communication in a dominant interference scenario may also be supported with short term interference mitigation. Interference mitigation may blank or reduce the transmit power of interfering transmissions so that a higher received signal quality can be achieved for a desired transmission. Interference mitigation may be short term and performed as needed e.g. on a per subframe or packet basis.

The UE served by the serving eNB may receive the RUM trigger and may send an uplink RUM UL RUM to an interfering eNB. The interfering eNB may receive other UL RUMs from other UEs observing high interference from the interfering eNB. A UL RUM may also be referred to as a reduce interference request. A UL RUM may ask the interfering eNB to reduce interference on the specified data resources and may also convey the priority of the request a target interference level for a UE and or other information. The interfering eNB may receive UL RUMs from its neighboring UEs and or the UE and may grant or dismiss each request for reduced interference based on the priority of the request the buffer status of the interfering eNB and or other factors. If the request from the UE is granted then the interfering eNB may adjust its transmit power and or steer its transmission in order to reduce interference to the UE. The interfering eNB may determine a transmit power level Pthat it will use on the specified data resources.

The interfering eNB may then transmit a downlink resource quality indicator reference signal DL RQI RS at a power level of P which may be equal to Por a scaled version of P. An RQI reference signal may also be referred to as a power decision pilot a power decision pilot indicator channel PDPICH etc. The interfering eNB may send the DL RQI RS on DL RQI RS resources which may be paired with the specified data resources. For example R sets of data resources may be available in subframe t and R corresponding sets of DL RQI RS resources may be available in subframe t x where x may be a fixed offset. Each set of data resources may correspond to a set of resource blocks and each set of DL RQI RS resources may correspond to a resource block. The interfering eNB may send the DL RQI RS on DL RQI RS resources r which may correspond to specified data resources r. Similarly the serving eNB may receive UL RUMs from its neighboring UEs and may send DL RQI RS in response to the UL RUMs.

In one design the eNBs may send their DL RQI RSs on DL RQI RS resources that may be common to all eNBs. The DL RQI RS resources may be some resources in the data region reserved by all eNBs for sending DL RQI RSs or may be defined in other manners. The DL RQI RS resources may include a sufficient number of resource elements to enable accurate SINR estimation. The DL RQI RSs may enable UEs to more accurately estimate the received signal quality of their serving eNBs on the specified data resources.

The UE may receive DL RQI RSs from the serving eNB as well as interfering eNBs on the DL RQI RS resources. The UE may estimate the SINR of the DL RQI RS resources for the serving eNB based on the received DL RQI RSs and may determine RQI based on the estimated SINR. The RQI may be indicative of received signal quality on the specified data resources and may be similar to a channel quality indicator CQI . The RQI may indicate good received signal quality for the serving eNB on the specified data resources if strong interfering eNBs reduce interference on these data resources. The UE may send the RQI on the PUCCH to the serving eNB. The serving eNB may receive the RQI from the UE and may schedule the UE for data transmission on assigned data resources which may include all or a subset of the specified data resources. The serving eNB may select a modulation and coding scheme MCS based on the RQI and may process data in accordance with the selected MCS. The serving eNB may generate a downlink DL grant which may include the assigned data resources the selected MCS etc. The serving eNB may send the downlink grant on the PUCCH and data on the PUSCH to the UE. The UE may receive the downlink grant and data from the serving eNB and may decode the received data transmission based on the selected MCS. The UE may obtain ACK if the data is decoded correctly or NACK if the data is decoded in error and may send the ACK or NACK on the PUCCH to the serving eNB.

The UE may receive the RQI RS request from the serving eNB and may also receive one or more DL RUMs from one or more neighbor eNBs. The UE may determine a transmit power level Pthat it will or can use on the specified data resources based on the DL RUMs from all neighbor eNBs. The UE may then transmit an UL RQI RS on UL RQI RS resources at a transmit power level of P which may be equal to Por a scaled version of P. In one design the UE may send the UL RQI RS on UL RQI RS resources that may be common to all UEs. The UL RQI RS resources may be certain resources in the data region reserved by all eNBs for UEs to send UL RQI RSs or may be defined in other manners.

The serving eNB may receive the UL RQI RSs from the UE as well as interfering UEs on the UL RQI RS resources and may estimate the SINR of the UE on these resources. The SINR may be good if the interfering UEs will clear the specified data resources. The serving eNB may then schedule the UE on the specified data resources and may select an MCS for the UE based on the estimated SINR. The serving eNB may generate an uplink grant which may include the selected MCS the assigned data resources the transmit power level to use for the assigned data resources etc. The serving eNB may send the uplink grant on the PDCCH to the UE. The UE may receive the uplink grant process data based on the selected MCS and send the data on the PUSCH on the assigned data resources. The serving eNB may receive and decode the data from the UE determine ACK or NACK based on the decoding result and send the ACK or NACK on the PHICH to the UE.

In one design a UE may send uplink control messages such as UL RUMs scheduling requests RQIs and ACK NACK feedback on the PUCCH as shown in or with data on the PUSCH not shown in . The UE can reliably send these uplink control messages in the control region allocated to its serving eNB which should be cleared of high interference from interfering UEs communicating with neighbor eNBs.

In yet another aspect cross subframe control may be used to support data transmission on the downlink and or uplink with TDM partitioning of downlink control resources. Different eNBs may be allocated different subframes for sending control information with TDM partitioning. Each eNB may send control messages to support data transmission in the subframes allocated to that eNB. Different eNBs may have different timelines for sending control messages due to their different allocated subframes. With cross subframe control control information e.g. grants ACK NACK etc. may be sent in a first subframe and may be applicable for data transmission in a second subframe which may be a variable number of subframes from the first subframe.

For data transmission on the downlink eNBs and may send RUM triggers in the control region of subframes and respectively in their allocated interlaces. UEs and may receive the RUM triggers from neighbor eNBs and may send UL RUMs in subframes and respectively to their serving eNBs. The UEs may also send the UL RUMs in the same subframe e.g. subframe . eNBs and may receive the UL RUMs from the served UEs and may send DL RQI RSs on the same downlink resources in subframe . UEs and may receive the DL RQI RSs from the eNBs estimate SINR and send RQIs to their serving eNBs in subframe .

eNBs and may receive the RQIs from UEs and respectively and may schedule the UEs for data transmission on the downlink. Due to the 1 subframe processing delay eNBs and may send downlink grants to UEs and in subframes and respectively of their allocated interlaces. eNBs and may send data to UEs and respectively in subframes through which may be shared by the eNBs. UEs and may receive the data from their serving eNBs in subframes through and may send ACK NACK feedback in subframes through respectively.

As shown in the eNBs may send their control information in the subframes of their allocated interlaces in order to avoid high interference on the control information. One or more eNBs may send data in the same subframes and may adjust their transmit power and or steer their transmissions to avoid high interference on the data. With cross subframe control a downlink grant may have a variable delay from a corresponding data transmission instead of being transmitted in the same subframe as the corresponding data transmission as shown in . This variable delay may result from different eNBs being allocated different subframes for sending control information. Furthermore a given downlink grant may be applicable for data transmission in one or multiple subframes on the downlink. In the example shown in each eNB may send control information in every fourth subframe and a downlink grant may be applicable for data transmission in up to four subframes. In general if an eNB can send control information in every S th subframe then a downlink grant may be applicable for data transmission in up to S subframes.

The eNBs may send RUM triggers in their allocated subframes. The eNBs may thereafter send DL RQI RSs on the same downlink resources to enable the UEs to estimate the SINRs that can be expected for subsequent data transmission on the downlink. There may be a variable delay between a RUM trigger from an eNB and a DL RQI RS from the eNB which may be supported with cross subframe control.

For data transmission on the uplink UEs and may send scheduling requests to serving eNBs and respectively not shown in . eNBs and may send DL RUMs to interfering UEs as well as RQI RS requests to the served UEs in subframes and respectively of their allocated interlaces. UEs and may receive the DL RUMs from the neighbor eNBs and the RQI RS requests from their serving eNBs. UEs and may send UL RQI RSs on the same uplink resources in subframe . eNBs and may receive the UL RQI RSs from the UEs estimate SINR and select MCSs for UEs and respectively. eNBs and may schedule the UEs for data transmission on the uplink and may send uplink grants to UEs and in subframes and respectively of their allocated interlaces.

UEs and may send data to eNBs and respectively in subframes through . eNBs and may receive the data from their served UEs in subframes through . Due to the 1 subframe processing delay eNB may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframes and from UE and may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframe . eNB may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframes to from UE . eNB may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframe from UE and may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframes and . eNB may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframes and from UE and may send ACK NACK in subframe for data received in subframes and .

As shown in the eNBs may send control information in the subframes of their allocated interlaces. One or more UEs may send data in the same subframes and may adjust their transmit power and or steer their transmissions to avoid high interference on the data. With cross subframe control an uplink grant may have a variable delay from a corresponding data transmission. This variable delay may result from different eNBs being allocated different subframes for sending control information. Furthermore a given uplink grant may be applicable for data transmission in one or multiple subframes on the uplink.

The UEs may send data transmission on the uplink in the same subframes. The eNBs may send ACK NACK feedback in different subframes of their allocated interlaces. With cross subframe control ACK NACK feedback may have a variable delay from a corresponding data transmission. Furthermore ACK NACK feedback may be sent in a given subframe for data transmission in a variable number of subframes.

The eNBs may send DL RUMs and RQI RS requests in different subframes of their allocated interlaces. The UEs may send UL RQI RSs on the same uplink resources to enable the eNBs to estimate the SINRs that can be expected for subsequent data transmission on the uplink. There may be a variable delay between the DL RUM and RQI RS request from an eNB and the UL RQI RS from a UE. The variable delay may be supported with cross subframe control.

For data transmission without cross subframe control e.g. as shown in there may be fixed delays between various transmissions. For data transmission with cross subframe control e.g. as shown in there may be variable delays between various transmissions. Table 1 lists subframes in which grant data and ACK NACK may be sent for different data transmission scenarios. For the scenarios with cross subframe control offsets x and y may be variable and may be dependent on the subframes allocated to an eNB.

In the examples shown in each UE is scheduled for data transmission in four subframes. In general a UE may be scheduled for data transmission in one or more subframes. In one design a single downlink or uplink grant may be sent for data transmission in all scheduled subframes. In another design one downlink or uplink grant may be sent for data transmission in each scheduled subframe. Downlink and uplink grants may also be sent in other manners.

Different eNBs may be allocated different subframes for sending control information with TDM partitioning as described above. An eNB may avoid sending control information in the control region of the subframes allocated to other eNBs. However the eNB may continue to send certain designated channels and or signals in the control region and or the data region of the subframes allocated to other eNBs. For example the eNB may transmit the CRS in all subframes i.e. in the subframes allocated to the eNB as well as the subframes allocated to other eNBs . The designated channels and or signals may be used to support operation of legacy UEs which may expect these channels and or signals to be present and may not function properly in the absence of these channels and or signals.

In yet another aspect a UE may perform interference cancellation for one or more designated channels and or signals in order to improve performance for control information and or data. For interference cancellation the UE may estimate interference due to a designated channel or signal cancel the estimated interference and then recover a desired channel or signal after canceling the estimated interference.

In one design the UE may perform interference cancellation for the CRS which may be transmitted by each eNB in the control and data regions of each subframe e.g. as shown in . The CRS from an eNB may cause interference in one or more of the following ways 

The UE may perform interference cancellation for CRS on CRS collision or CRS on control collision or CRS on data collision or a combination thereof. The UE may determine whether CRS on CRS collision has occurred between the CRS of its serving eNB and the CRS of an interfering eNB based on the cell IDs of the serving and interfering eNBs. The UE may perform interference cancellation for CRS on CRS collision if it occurred by estimating interference due to the CRS from the interfering eNB and canceling the estimated interference from a received signal at the UE to obtain an interference canceled signal. The UE may then perform channel estimation based on the CRS from the serving eNB in the interference canceled signal. The UE may be able to obtain a more accurate channel estimate for the serving eNB by canceling the interference due to the CRS from the interfering eNB.

The UE may perform interference cancellation for CRS on control collision by estimating interference due to the CRS from the interfering eNB canceling the estimated interference and processing the interference canceled signal instead of the received signal to recover control information sent by the serving eNB. The UE may also decode the control information by taking into account the interference from the CRS of the interfering eNB. For example the UE may perform decoding by giving i less weight to detected symbols from resource elements used by the interfering eNB to send the CRS and ii more weight to detected symbols from other resource elements. The UE may perform interference cancellation for CRS on data collision in similar manner as for CRS on control collision.

In another design eNBs that may interfere with one another may be assigned cell IDs such that their CRSs are sent on different resource elements and hence do not collide. This may improve channel estimation performance for UEs. A UE may perform interference cancellation for CRS on control collision and or CRS on data collision.

The wireless network may support operation on one or multiple carriers for the downlink and one or multiple carriers for the uplink. A carrier may refer to a range of frequencies used for communication and may be associated with certain characteristics. For example a carrier may be associated with system information describing operation on the carrier etc. A carrier may also be referred to as a channel a frequency channel etc. A carrier for the downlink may be referred to as a downlink carrier and a carrier for the uplink may be referred to as an uplink carrier.

The techniques described herein may be used for multi carrier operation. In one design the techniques described herein may be performed for each downlink carrier and each uplink carrier. For example an eNB may be allocated a set of subframes on each carrier for sending control information on the downlink. The eNB may be allocated staggered sets of subframes for different downlink carriers so that the eNB can send control information in as many subframes as possible. The eNB may also be allocated a frequency range on each uplink carrier for receiving control information on the uplink. The eNB may send RUM triggers DL RUMs RQI RS requests grants and or other downlink control messages for each downlink carrier in the allocated subframes for that downlink carrier. The eNB may receive scheduling requests UL RUMs and or other uplink control messages for each uplink carrier in the allocated frequency range of that uplink carrier. A UE may monitor each downlink carrier on which the UE can receive control information and may detect for RUM triggers DL RUMs RQI RS requests grants and or other downlink control messages. The UE may send scheduling requests UL RUMs and or other uplink control messages on each uplink carrier in the allocated frequency range for that uplink carrier.

In another design an eNB may be allocated a set of subframes on a designated downlink carrier for sending control information for all downlink carriers. The eNB may also be allocated a frequency range on a designated uplink carrier for receiving control information for all uplink carriers. The eNB may send RUM triggers DL RUMs RQI RS requests grants and or other downlink control messages for all downlink carriers in the allocated subframes on the designated downlink carrier. The eNB may receive scheduling requests UL RUMs and or other uplink control messages for all uplink carriers in the allocated frequency range of the designated uplink carrier. A UE may monitor the designated downlink carrier and may detect for RUM triggers DL RUMs RQI RS requests grants and or other downlink control messages for all downlink carriers. The UE may send scheduling requests UL RUMs and or other uplink control messages for all uplink carriers in the allocated frequency range of the designated uplink carrier.

The techniques described herein can support communication in dominant interference scenarios. In a dominant interference scenario a UE can reliably receive a transmission from a serving eNB on resources on which interfering eNBs do not transmit. The interfering eNBs may clear or transmit at lower power level on resources used to send control information as well as resources used to send data by the serving eNB. Resources for control information may be statically or semi statically cleared with TDM partitioning for the downlink and with FDM partitioning for the uplink as described above. Resources for data may be dynamically cleared with short term interference mitigation which may assume that control information can be reliably sent on the downlink and uplink.

In one design the first subframe may be allocated to a base station and may have reduced interference from at least one interfering base station. The second subframe may be available to the base station and the at least one interfering base station. In one design a set of subframes may be allocated to the base station for sending control information. The base station may send control information in the set of subframes and may avoid sending control information in the remaining subframes. The first subframe may belong in the set of subframes. In another design at least one interlace may be allocated to the base station for sending control information. Subframes in the at least one interlace may have reduced interference from the at least one interfering base station. The first subframe may belong in the at least one interlace allocated to the base station.

In one design a base station e.g. eNB in may perform process to transmit data on the downlink. The base station may send a downlink grant in the first subframe e.g. subframe in block and may send data in the second subframe e.g. subframe in block . The base station may receive ACK NACK feedback in a third subframe e.g. subframe in block for the data sent in the second subframe. The base station may send a message e.g. a RUM trigger in a fourth subframe e.g. subframe to request for reduced interference on the downlink in the second subframe. The fourth subframe may be a variable number of subframes from the second subframe. The base station may send a reference signal e.g. a DL RQI RS in a fifth subframe e.g. subframe which may be a variable number of subframes from the fourth subframe.

In another design a UE e.g. UE in may perform process to receive data on the downlink. The UE may receive a downlink grant in the first subframe e.g. subframe in block and may receive data in the second subframe e.g. subframe in block . The UE may send ACK NACK feedback in the third subframe subframe in block for the data received in the second subframe.

In yet another design a base station e.g. eNB in may perform process to receive data on the uplink. The base station may send an uplink grant in the first subframe e.g. subframe in block and may receive data in the second subframe e.g. subframe in block . The base station may send ACK NACK feedback in the third subframe e.g. subframe for the data received in the second subframe. The third subframe may be a variable number of subframes from the second subframe. The base station may send a message e.g. a DL RUM in a fourth subframe e.g. subframe to request for reduced interference on the uplink in the second subframe. In one design the fourth subframe may be a variable number of subframes from the second subframe e.g. as shown in . In another design the fourth subframe may be a fixed number of subframes from the second subframe. The base station may also send a message e.g. a RQI RS request in the fourth subframe to request a UE to send a reference signal e.g. a UL RQI RS in a fifth subframe e.g. subframe . The fourth subframe may be a variable number of subframes from the fifth subframe. The base station may receive a plurality of reference signals from a plurality of UEs including the UE in the fifth subframe. The base station may determine received signal quality for the UE based on the plurality of reference signals. The base station may select a modulation and coding scheme MCS for the UE based on the received signal quality for the UE and may send the uplink grant comprising the selected MCS.

In yet another design a UE may perform process to send data on the uplink. The UE may receive an uplink grant in the first subframe e.g. subframe in block and may send data in the second subframe e.g. subframe in block . The UE may receive ACK NACK feedback in the third subframe e.g. subframe for the data sent in the second subframe.

In one design operation on multiple carriers may be supported. In one design a grant for data transmission on a plurality of carriers may be exchanged in block . Data may be exchanged on the plurality of carriers indicated by the grant in block .

In one design of block the at least one grant may be exchanged in a subframe allocated to a base station and having reduced interference from at least one interfering base station. In one design the base station may be allocated a set of subframes for sending control information among all available subframes. The base station may send grants to UEs observing high interference in the set of subframes and may avoid sending grants to these UEs in the remaining subframes. Each grant may cover data transmission in a single subframe or multiple subframes.

In one design a base station may perform process to send data on the downlink to a UE e.g. as shown in . The base station may send at least one downlink grant to the UE in block and may send data in the variable number of subframes to the UE in block .

In another design a UE may perform process to receive data on the downlink from a base station e.g. as shown in . The UE may receive at least one downlink grant in block and may receive data in the variable number of subframes in block .

In yet another design a base station may perform process to receive data on the uplink from a UE e.g. as shown in . The base station may send at least one uplink grant to the UE in block and may receive data in the variable number of subframes from the UE in block .

In yet another design a UE may perform process to send data on the downlink to a base station e.g. as shown in . The UE may receive at least one uplink grant in block and may send data in the variable number of subframes in block .

In one design a plurality of grants may be sent to the UE in block one grant for data transmission in each of the variable number of subframes. The plurality of grants may be sent in a single subframe or in multiple subframes e.g. one subframe for each subframe in which data is sent . In one design each grant may comprise an indication of a subframe for which the grant applies. The indication may be explicitly given by a field in the grant or implicitly given by a resource on which the grant is sent or a scrambling code used for the grant etc. In another design a single grant may be sent to the UE in block for data transmission in all of the variable number of subframes.

In one design the base station may perform process to send data on the downlink e.g. as shown in . For block the base station may send the message e.g. a RUM trigger on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference from at least one interfering base station. For block the base station may send data to a UE on the resources having reduced interference from the at least one interfering base station due to the message sent on the PDCCH. The base station may send a downlink grant on the PDCCH to the UE and may send data to the UE based on the downlink grant.

In another design the base station may perform process to receive data on the uplink e.g. as shown in . For block the base station may send the message e.g. a DL RUM on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference from at least one interfering UE communicating with at least one neighbor base station. For block the base station may receive data from a UE on the resources having reduced interference from the at least one interfering UE due to the message sent on the PDCCH. In one design the base station may send a second message e.g. an RQI RS request on the PDCCH to request the UE to send a reference signal e.g. an UL RQI RS . The base station may receive a plurality of reference signals from a plurality of UEs including the UE and may estimate received signal quality for the UE based on these reference signals. The base station may determine a modulation and coding scheme MCS based on the estimated received signal quality for the UE. The base station may generate an uplink grant comprising the selected MCS send an uplink grant on the PDCCH to the UE and receive data sent by the UE based on the uplink grant.

In one design multi carrier operation may be supported. In one design the base station may send messages on the PDCCH on each of a plurality of carriers. Each message may request for reduced interference on a carrier on which the message is sent. In another design the base station may send messages on the PDCCH on a designated carrier among the plurality of carriers. Each message may request for reduced interference on one or more of the plurality of carriers.

In one design the UE may perform process to receive data on the downlink e.g. as shown in . The UE may receive data from a serving base station on the resources having reduced interference from at least one neighbor base station. In one design the UE may receive a first message e.g. a RUM trigger sent by a neighbor base station on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference. The UE may send a second message e.g. an UL RUM to the serving base station to forward the request for reduced interference from the neighbor base station. In another design the UE may receive the first message sent by the serving base station on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference. The UE may send the second message to the at least one neighbor base station to forward the request for reduced interference from the serving base station. In one design the UE may receive a plurality of reference signals e.g. DL RQI RSs from a plurality of base stations including the serving base station and at least one neighbor base station. The UE may estimate received signal quality for the serving base station based on the reference signals. The UE may send RQI indicative of the received signal quality for the serving base station.

In another design the UE may perform process to send data on the uplink e.g. as shown in . The UE may send data to the serving base station on the resources having reduced interference from at least one interfering UE communicating with at least one neighbor base station. In one design the UE may receive at least one message e.g. DL RUM sent by at least one neighbor base station on the PDCCH to request for reduced interference. The UE may determine whether or not to send data on the resources based on the at least one message received from the at least one neighbor base station. The UE may receive a message e.g. a RQI RS request sent by the serving base station on the PDCCH to request for transmission of a reference signal. The UE may determine a first transmit power level for the resources in response to the at least one message from the at least one neighbor base station and the message from the serving base station. The UE may then transmit a reference signal e.g. an UL RQI RS at a second transmit power level determined based on the first transmit power level.

In one design multi carrier operation may be supported. In one design the UE may monitor for messages from the at least one base station on each of a plurality of carriers. In another design the UE may monitor for messages from the at least one base station on a designated carrier among the plurality of carriers.

The modules in may comprise processors electronic devices hardware devices electronic components logical circuits memories software codes firmware codes etc. or any combination thereof.

At base station a transmit processor may receive data from a data source and control information from a controller processor . The control information may comprise control messages such as RUM triggers DL RUMs RQI RS requests downlink grants uplink grants etc. Processor may process e.g. encode and modulate the data and control information to obtain data symbols and control symbols respectively. Processor may also generate reference symbols e.g. for the CRS DL RQI RS etc. A transmit TX multiple input multiple output MIMO processor may perform spatial processing e.g. precoding on the data symbols the control symbols and or the reference symbols if applicable and may provide T output symbol streams to T modulators MODs through . Each modulator may process a respective output symbol stream e.g. for OFDM etc. to obtain an output sample stream. Each modulator may further process e.g. convert to analog amplify filter and upconvert the output sample stream to obtain a downlink signal. T downlink signals from modulators through may be transmitted via T antennas through respectively.

At UE antennas through may receive the downlink signals from base station and other base stations and may provide received signals to demodulators DEMODs through respectively. Each demodulator may condition e.g. filter amplify downconvert and digitize a respective received signal to obtain input samples. Each demodulator may further process the input samples e.g. for OFDM etc. to obtain received symbols. A MIMO detector may obtain received symbols from all R demodulators through perform MIMO detection on the received symbols if applicable and provide detected symbols. A receive processor may process e.g. demodulate and decode the detected symbols provide decoded data for UE to a data sink and provide decoded control information to a controller processor .

On the uplink at UE a transmit processor may receive data from a data source and control information from controller processor . The control information may comprise control messages such as scheduling requests UL RUMs RQIs etc. Processor may process e.g. encode and modulate the data and control information to obtain data symbols and control symbols respectively. Processor may also generate reference symbols e.g. for UL RQI RS. The symbols from transmit processor may be precoded by a TX MIMO processor if applicable further processed by modulators through e.g. for SC FDM OFDM etc. and transmitted to base station and possibly other base stations. At base station the uplink signals from UE and other UEs may be received by antennas processed by demodulators detected by a MIMO detector if applicable and further processed by a receive processor to obtain decoded data and control information sent by UE and other UEs. Processor may provide the decoded data to a data sink and the decoded control information to controller processor .

Controllers processors and may direct the operation at base station and UE respectively. Processor and or other processors and modules at base station may perform or direct process in process in process in and or other processes for the techniques described herein. Processor and or other processors and modules at UE may perform or direct process in process in process in and or other processes for the techniques described herein. Memories and may store data and program codes for base station and UE respectively. A scheduler may schedule UEs for data transmission on the downlink and or uplink.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

