---

title: Entitlement lifecycle management in a resource management system
abstract: An entitlement management system is described herein that models each entitlement as a resource within a resource management system. In a resource management system that applies policy to all requests to create, update, and delete a resource, this approach allows rich application of policy to the creation, delegation, renewal, expiration, and deletion of entitlements. A resource management system that can synchronize data to connected systems can thereby grant or revoke these permissions in those systems. This approach also facilitates role mining, attestation, and compliance reporting. Entitlements stored as resources may also include properties, such as workflows and policies related to the entitlements. Thus, the entitlement management system provides a more formal and automated facility for managing entitlements in organizations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08490152&OS=08490152&RS=08490152
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08490152
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101026
---
Many organizations depend on large software environments for managing internal and external business data. For example most corporations have a large databases and related applications for performing human resources functions accounting customer management and so forth. These large environments often include many physical components such as servers as well as many software components such as databases client applications backup and other administrative components and so forth. Deployment and maintenance of large software environments consume a significant amount of time and effort spent by organizational information technology IT departments. One example of a large software environment is MICROSOFT Forefront Identity Manager FIM 2010 and MICROSOFT Identity Lifecycle Manager ILM 2007 that preceded it . FIM provides an integrated and comprehensive solution for managing user identities and their associated credentials in an organization including identity synchronization certificate and password management and user provisioning in a single solution that works across heterogeneous environments that allows IT departments to define and automate the processes used to manage identities from creation to retirement.

Organizations want to control what users can do to or with resources such as applications file shares printers and SHAREPOINT sites which are under control of the organization which can include on premise resources directly managed by the organization or resources in the cloud which are managed by a service provider and for which the organization has the ability to grant access to end users. Further they want to do this in a way that is provably i.e. via audit consistent with their governance risk and compliance GRC policies. An entitlement is a logical expression which describes the affirmative intent of an organization which controls a resource or resource collection to allow a user or a collection of users to take an action on that resource such as create read update delete print copy upload approve or membership in a group role or set which may have convey privileges in an application.

Organizations want to manage the lifecycle of entitlements who is able to create entitlements to specific resources for specific users or collections of users how long the entitlement endures before it is subject to renewal or expiration and what happens upon the expiration of an entitlement. Additionally they want the capability of analyzing existing and historical entitlements in order to prove that their actual entitlements were consistent with their compliance policies and to facilitate role mining i.e. the collecting of similar users into roles . For example an organization might want to model the policy every member of a compliance tracked group has to request to renew their membership in that group every months and have that request approved by an owner of the group or if not that member shall be removed from the group. 

Today implementing entitlement lifecycles is a largely manual process. IT professionals may use scripts and other timesaving tools but the decision making around when and on which users and resources to invoke the scripts is largely handled manually or through loosely connected systems e.g. a calendar reminder . This can lead to allowing users to have access to resources for longer than intended or long after a user changes role and should no longer have access. As users change jobs within an organization or leave organizations eliminating unnecessary access to resources as quickly as possible reduces the likelihood of unintended access to resources.

An entitlement management system is described herein that models each entitlement as a resource within a resource management system. In a resource management system that applies policy to all requests to create update and delete a resource this approach allows rich application of policy to the creation delegation renewal expiration and deletion of entitlements. A resource management system that can synchronize data to connected systems can thereby grant or revoke these permissions in those systems. Although an entitlement is modeled as a resource by the resource management system the system can translate the entitlement into whatever representation is expected by connected systems to which the data is synchronized. This approach also facilitates role mining attestation and compliance reporting. Entitlements stored as resources may also include properties such as workflows and policies related to the entitlements. Thus the entitlement management system provides a more formal and automated facility for managing entitlements in organizations.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An entitlement management system is described herein that models each entitlement as a resource within a resource management system. In a resource management system that applies policy to all requests to create update and delete a resource this approach allows rich application of policy to the creation delegation renewal expiration and deletion of entitlements. A resource management system that can synchronize data to connected systems can thereby grant or revoke these permissions in those systems. Although an entitlement is modeled as a resource by the resource management system the system can translate the entitlement into whatever representation is expected by connected systems to which the data is synchronized. For example the entitlement management system may have a resource that tracks information about a user s membership in a group and the resource management system will provision the group with the right membership to Active Directory or some other system and yet Active Directory will have no direct knowledge of the entitlement itself. This approach also facilitates role mining attestation and compliance reporting. Entitlements stored as resources may also include properties such as workflows and policies related to the entitlements.

The entitlement management system can apply policy to the creation of an entitlement in a resource management system based on properties of the requestor the resource the user or collection of users to which the entitlement pertains and other properties of the request. The system can also model delegation of an entitlement as an independent resource including any persistence of the relationship to the delegated entitlement to the original grantor and the policies that enable the creation of the delegated entitlement by the grantor. The system also applies policy updates such as extension of an expiration date or deletion of an entitlement in a resource management system based on the resource the user s or role s creation date applicable policies at creation or other attributes of the entitlement. The system can model entitlements as having an expiration date and revoke those entitlements if they are not renewed prior to the expiration date. Finally the system can enumerate non account entitlements in a resource management system based on properties of the entitlement such as the resource the user or role s to which the entitlement pertains the expiration date the policies that were applied to the entitlement and or the reason the entitlement was granted to allow reporting and auditing of entitlements. Thus the entitlement management system provides a more formal and automated facility for managing entitlements in organizations.

The entitlement management system models each user or role that is intended to have an account or a particular permission for a resource as a resource in the resource management system. The entitlement management system may be implemented within the resource management system by 1 extending schema of the resource management system to include one or more entitlement resource types 2 extending schema of the resource management system to include any new properties of the entitlement type s that are relevant for policy in their environment 3 configuring the user interface to allow users to request creation editing and deletion of entitlements 4 creating policies and any helper objects to grant permission to users to create or approve entitlements appropriate to their role in the organization 5 optionally creating any workflows that backlink the entitlements to users groups roles or resources and 6 creating policies and any helper objects to realize these entitlements in connected systems. Additionally it may be useful to implement reports on entitlement status using any of several reporting mechanisms that could be implemented with an entitlement management system.

Prior systems attempted to model an entitlement by appending information to a resource representing the user that enumerates what they can do or to append information to a logical resource which represents the physical resource that enumerates who can perform a particular action with respect to that resource or to a group or role which allows assigning permissions to the group or role as a collection. This typically has one of two deficits 1 with normal schema depth it is impossible to persist useful metadata about the entitlement e.g. when a user became a member of the group in a way that facilitates application of policy or reporting and 2 with deeper schema for example where each member of a role has additional data about their membership stored at a deep level in the role object itself it becomes difficult to use normal tools and techniques to read and write data in a performant way from the sorts of relational and hierarchical databases in which entitlements are typically stored these databases and their related management tools are not optimized for data structures with this schema depth. The entitlement management system described herein provides a more efficient and flexible facility for managing resource entitlements.

In particular the expiration date of an entitlement and the policy indicating which users can renew an entitlement can be represented as properties of each entitlement resource which enables an organization to easily model that entitlements to a resource granted to users in distinct categories expire at different times and have category specific requirements for renewal. For example an organization can define a policy that for a first user who has a category of excluded when an entitlement for that first user to be in a group Finance FTEs is created the properties of that entitlement resource are set to cause the entitlement to expire after one year but that the entitlement can be renewed by that first user. For a second user that does not have the category of excluded when an entitlement for the second user to be in the group Finance FTEs is created the properties of that entitlement resource are set to cause the entitlement to expire after three months and the entitlement can only be renewed by the second user s manager. These and many other types of policies are much easier to specify using the data model presented herein.

In some embodiments these components may be built into a resource management system that includes a user interface resource management service and synchronization service. The resource management service has configuration for entitlement management and is able to manage entitlements in addition to users groups roles and other resources that are normally part of such systems. Configuration for entitlement management enables creation updating and deletion of entitlements and the execution of any workflows needed to decorate some other object user group or role based on the creation or deletion of an entitlement. The resource management service is responsible for a processing requests from users b detecting when time based workflows such as renewal and expiration need to be executed and c executing those workflows. The synchronization service includes the entitlement synchronization component described herein and is responsible for synchronizing resources to connected systems in which the organization wants to control access by users.

The user interface component provides an interface through which one or more administrators can access the system to create and manage entitlements modeled as resources. The interface may include one or more ways of accessing the system such as a web based interface programmatic application programming interface API mobile interface and so forth. The interface may provide one or more pages or dialogs for creating a new entitlement reporting on existing entitlements renewing entitlements removing entitlements and so forth.

The resource store is a data store that stores information about each of the resources managed by the system wherein the resources include one or more entitlements modeled as resources that describe one resource s rights to access another resource. For example if a user is granted membership to add other users to a mailing list in a directory system such as MICROSOFT WINDOWS Active Directory the entitlement to change membership of the mailing list can itself be stored as a resource. In this way the lifetime of the resource can be managed to enforce various policies for creation renewal expiration and so forth. In addition the system can receive workflows associated with modification of the entitlement so that business process logic executes when the entitlement is modified to perform organization specific steps. The resource store may include one or more files file systems hard drives databases cloud based storage services or other storage facilities for storing data persistently. The other components of the system access and store resources and other data in the resource store for later retrieval.

The entitlement creation component creates an entitlement represented by a resource in the resource store . The component may set one or more properties of the entitlement resource such as the resource s type duration members that can modify the resource an owner of the resource and so forth. The entitlement creation component may provide an interface exposed by the user interface component through which administrators or other users can access the entitlement creation component to create new entitlements. The component can store created entitlements in the resource store just like any other resource using a resource type that identifies the resource as an entitlement resource. Then the system can apply any useful processing for handling resources of one or more entitlement types.

The entitlement expiration component handles expiration of entitlements represented by resources. The component may periodically run a process that identifies resources that are due to expire. Upon identifying an expiring resource the component may remove the resource or mark it inactive or execute business process logic such as a renewal workflow that sends a message to users affected by the expiring entitlement to invite the users to renew the entitlement. The component may allow a set period for users to renew the entitlement before the entitlement is removed. In this way stale entitlements are not kept in the system but entitlements that are to be retained can be renewed according to a well defined process that maintains the integrity of the entitlement scheme for the organization.

The entitlement renewal component handles renewal of expiring entitlements. As described above the system may allow users or other entities to renew an expiring entitlement. The renewal may reset the expiration or other properties of the resource representing the entitlement so that the resource continues to be valid and expires at a new future date. The entitlement renewal component can execute and or enforce business logic provided by an administrator that structures the conditions for renewal based on a particular organization s entitlement scheme. The entitlement resource may specify which users have access to renew the entitlement who to notify when the entitlement is at or near expiration for how long the entitlement is renewed and so forth.

The entitlement synchronization component synchronizes entitlement resources between multiple environments. IT personnel may model organization changes in a pilot environment and later synchronize those changes to a production environment. In addition organizations may have many related but separate systems such as an accounting system a human resource system a directory system and so forth that are affected by changes to entitlements. For example changes in access permission to an object may involve an update to the directory system whereas changing a user s name e.g. due to marriage may affect many systems in an organization. The entitlement synchronization component allows entitlements modeled as resources in one environment to be copied or synchronized to another environment so that the two environments are harmonized as changes to the entitlement resources occur over time.

The entitlement synchronization component may provide an interface through the user interface component such as a MICROSOFT PowerShell cmdlet or other interface through which administrators can export information about resources in various environments create a change list of differences between two environments and apply changes to an environment based on the change list of differences with another environment. The entitlement synchronization component can synchronize information to connected systems in an on premise data center environment that is managed by corporate IT staff or outsourced vendors or a cloud environment where the data center is managed by a service provider.

The entitlement auditing component generates one or more reports that identify entitlements managed by the system . The component can generate a report by enumerating resources having a particular entitlement resource type or set of types. Because entitlements are stored as resources the system can report on the entitlements by status relationship to other resources remaining duration and other criteria. Organizations may have particular auditing or compliance rules that they operate under and the entitlement auditing component provides a way of auditing the state of entitlements within an organization at any particular time. This can allow IT personnel to prove the state of the system with respect to entitlements and give confidence that entitlements are managed in accordance with the organization s entitlement plan.

In some embodiments the entitlement auditing component supports attestation and certification within organizations. Certification is the process by which usually a manager or resource owner certifies that some user or role that has an access entitlement has a business justification to continue having that entitlement. Modeling these entitlements as independent resources provides a convenient mechanism for reporting on the history of requests related to the particular entitlement.

The computing device on which the entitlement management system is implemented may include a central processing unit e.g. a processor memory input devices e.g. keyboard and pointing devices output devices e.g. display devices and storage devices e.g. disk drives or other non volatile storage media . The memory and storage devices are computer readable storage media that may be encoded with computer executable instructions e.g. software that implement or enable the system. In addition the data structures and message structures may be stored or transmitted via a data transmission medium such as a signal on a communication link. Various communication links may be used such as the Internet a local area network a wide area network a point to point dial up connection a cell phone network and so on.

Embodiments of the system may be implemented in various operating environments that include personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics digital cameras network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices set top boxes systems on a chip SOCs and so on. The computer systems may be cell phones personal digital assistants smart phones personal computers programmable consumer electronics digital cameras and so on. The computer system may be running on native hardware or may be running in a virtualized environment that executes instructions like a physical machine.

The system may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Continuing in block the system receives one or more properties that define a scope of the new entitlement. For example the properties may specify an owner a duration of the entitlement whether the entitlement can be renewed who can modify the entitlement a resource type associated with the entitlement and so forth. The system may extract the properties as parameters from the received request or request additional information from the user to receive the properties.

Continuing in block the system creates an entitlement resource for storing and managing information about the new entitlement. In a resource management system the entitlement management system may create a resource to represent the entitlement that is stored alongside other types of resources. The system may distinguish the entitlement resource by setting a particular entitlement resource type or specifying other information in association with the entitlement resource. The system may use the resource type to allow reporting related to entitlement or other resources and to allow execution of type specific business logic.

Continuing in block the system sets an entitlement type on the created entitlement resource that identifies the resource as representing an entitlement. Each resource has a type and entitlement resources are distinguished from other resources by the addition of an entitlement type to the standard body of resources provided by resource management systems.

Continuing in block the system stores the created entitlement resource in a resource store. The resource store stores all of the resources managed by the system and the entitlement is stored in the resource store alongside other types of resources. Because the entitlement is managed as a resource just like other resources the system can more easily manage the lifetime of the entitlement and providing auditing and reporting functions related to the entitlement.

Continuing in block the system responds to the user request indicating the outcome of creating the new entitlement. For example the system may provide a new web page in a web interface that indicates that the new entitlement resource was created and that offers the user other interfaces for modifying the created entitlement resource. For example the user may create the entitlement resource and then set information related to expiration of the entitlement.

Continuing in block the system applies policy to create update or delete the resource that the connected system uses as a basis of controlling access or permission in order to realize the policy intent of the entitlement. For example if the entitlement refers to a security group and reflects the intent of tracking membership in the security group then the system may update the security group to add a new member based on the entitlement.

Continuing in block the system synchronizes the resource to a connected system. For example a connected system may include a directory service payroll system human resources system or other systems running on hardware controlled by the organization or by a service provider. After block these steps conclude. The synchronization process may be managed by an administrator or performed automatically such as in a periodic synchronization process.

Modeling entitlements as independent objects in a resource management system is typically idiosyncratic to the resource management system. Because of the entitlements existing in the resource management system some other type of resource user group or role generally exists in a particular state in the connected system to which the resource management system synchronizes data. For example if Alice has an entitlement to be in a group Finance FTEs then in Active Directory Alice would be a member of Finance FTEs. It will typically be convenient for the resource management system to maintain the expected state of the object in the connected system and synchronize out that state. Therefore if Alice s entitlement for Finance FTEs expires and is deleted she would be removed from the group s membership as represented in the resource management system and then that group would be synchronized out to the connected system so that she is removed there as well.

Continuing in block the system queries a resource store for resources having an entitlement type wherein the system stores entitlements as resources with the entitlement type. Resource management systems are good at storing resources in an organization. By modeling entitlements as resources the entitlement management system allows the same kind of reporting and modification to occur to entitlement resources as to other resources. By querying by resource type an administrator can generate a report related to entitlement resources.

Continuing in block the system receives one or more entitlements stored as resources by the system. For example the query may execute against a resource store such as a database and return one or more results e.g. as rows or another format that represent entitlements currently stored by the system. The query may specify other criteria to filter the returned entitlements such as a query to identify expired entitlements or soon to expire entitlements.

Continuing in block the system generates a report that includes the received entitlements. The report may include a user interface for display to the requestor such as a web page log file or other report format. The system generates the report by placing the received entitlements in a format for consumption by the requestor. The report may include other entitlement information such as properties associated with each entitlement returned by the query.

Continuing in block the system sends the generated report to the requestor in response to the request. For example the system may provide a web interface e.g. a MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT portal through which users can access the system to create reports and the system may provide a web page in response that includes a table or other format of the data received from the resource management system. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize various types of interfaces for receiving query information and providing results in response such as a graphical user interface GUI command line interface CUI programmatic API and so forth. After block these steps conclude.

In some embodiments the entitlement management system manages entitlements related to security groups. Security groups in an organization are often created for accessing resources such as file shares electronic mailboxes distribution lists and so forth. Access is granted to such resources by adding users as members to the security groups. The assignment of a user to a group is one type of entitlement and it may not be the intention of the organization to allow the user to be permanently assigned to the security group. For example if membership in the security group grants the user access to sensitive information the organization may want to limit the duration during which users have access to the information or may at least want to formalize access to the information so that access rights are periodically reviewed.

Using the entitlement management system an administrator can create a resource that represents this entitlement. For example the system may extend the schema of FIM to include types for entitlement resources. An access entitlement resource type can include properties related to the entitlement such as an expiration date. In addition the resource definition may include one or more properties that facilitate the management of the entitlement resource such as the policies that apply to the entitlement or the control frameworks to which the entitlement is subject. As the entitlement nears expiration the system can provide notifications to users such as to renew the entitlement. When the entitlement is deleted such as when a user is removed from a security group due to expiration of the entitlement the deletion can trigger a workflow or other business logic such as to notify the user or a security group owner. This provides a well defined tightly managed process for handling entitlements in an organization. Expiration of entitlements related to security groups can reduce the common problem of token bloat for security groups in Active Directory which occurs when a user accumulates membership in many security groups unnecessarily over time and can result in delays or other problems in authenticating to the directory.

The system can also manage other resources in addition to security groups. Any set that creates resource rights or handles access to a resource can be modeled as a resource entitlement. For example an SAP payroll analyst role in an organization may provide users access to perform payroll functions in an organization. The system can manage entitlements related to these and other types of external systems just as other resources are managed by resource management systems today. Attributes of resources can also be tracked in this way. For example an attribute isExecutive that specifies that a company employee is part of the executive team with access to sensitive corporate information can be assigned to users and managed as an entitlement resource so that the attribute expires and or is checked for renewal periodically.

In some embodiments the entitlement management system allows specification of who can renew an entitlement. The system may store one or more properties related to renewal with the entitlement resource and the properties may specify who can renew the entitlement. For example in a particular organization renewal may be handled by the user himself that seeks renewal by the user s manager by an owner of the resource to which the user has wants access by a particular organizational position e.g. VP level approval and so forth.

In some embodiments the entitlement management system creates an audit trail for discovering information about entitlements that was difficult in previous systems. For example the system allows determination of who created an entitlement what the original criteria basis for creating the entitlement were when each user was given access to a resource what policies were applied to creation and renewal of the entitlement and so forth. Because resource management systems already track actions related to resources modeling entitlements as resources provides similar trackability to entitlements. In a world where corporate accountability and auditability of information is increasingly expected this provides verification of compliance with respect to resource entitlements.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the entitlement management system have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

