---

title: System and method to allow multiple plug-in applications real-time access to a camera application in a mobile device
abstract: A mobile device having a camera application is provided. The mobile device includes a camera and a controller coupled to the camera. The controller is configured to launch a first plug-in application within the camera application. The controller is also configured to launch a second plug-in application within the camera application. The first and second plug-in applications communicate with the camera application through an application programming interface. The controller is further configured to receive, from a user of the mobile device, a selection of one of the first and second plug-in applications. Based on the selection from the user of the mobile device, the controller is configured to update a user interface of the camera application to correspond to the selected plug-in application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732728&OS=08732728&RS=08732728
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08732728
owner_city: Suwon-Si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20100216
---
The present application is related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 271 375 filed Jul. 20 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD TO ALLOW MULTIPLE THIRD PARTY APPLICATIONS REAL TIME ACCESS TO THE MOBILE CAMERA S VIEWFINDER AND IMAGE . Provisional Patent Application No. 61 271 375 is assigned to the assignee of the present application and is hereby incorporated by reference into the present application as if fully set forth herein. The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 271 375.

The present application relates generally to mobile communication devices and more specifically to giving third party applications access to a mobile device s camera and interface.

The introduction of the camera module in mobile phones has made a significant impact to amateur photography. People now have the ability to take pictures whenever and wherever they wish without having to carry a traditional camera.

The growing popularity of online photo sharing and social networking services coupled with the availability of high speed wireless networking has created greater interest in the mobile phone s camera feature. Accordingly phone manufacturers and OEM partners have extended the basic camera application to allow the pictures taken by a mobile phone to be sent to a number of destinations.

A mobile device having a camera application is provided. The mobile device includes a camera and a controller coupled to the camera. The controller is configured to launch a first plug in application within the camera application. The controller is also configured to launch a second plug in application within the camera application. The controller is further configured to receive from a user of the mobile device a selection of one of the first and second plug in applications. Based on the selection from the user of the mobile device the controller is configured to update a user interface of the camera application to correspond to the selected plug in application.

A method for use in a mobile device having a camera and a camera application is provided. The method includes launching a first plug in application within the camera application. The method also includes launching a second plug in application within the camera application. The method further includes receiving from a user of the mobile device a selection of one of the first and second plug in applications. The method further includes based on the selection from the user of the mobile device updating a user interface of the camera application to correspond to the selected plug in application.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

The growing popularity of online photo sharing and social networking services coupled with the availability of high speed wireless networking has generated greater interest in the mobile phone s camera feature. This increased interest can be seen in at least two areas.

First phone manufacturers and OEM partners have extended the basic camera application to allow the pictures taken by a mobile phone to be sent to a number of destinations. For example the pictures can be saved on the phone s file system sent via an e mail to a recipient uploaded to a specific online photo management service e.g. Flickr or uploaded to a distribution system e.g. Shozu from which the image can be sent to various other destinations.

However this flexibility has some drawbacks. For example the user must take the picture before activating the desired feature such as saving e mailing uploading etc. . In addition the features available such as saving e mailing uploading etc. are limited by the choice of the OEM operator or OEM partner.

Second application developers have taken advantage of the mobile phone s camera application programming interfaces APIs to embed the camera functionality into their own applications. This allows the user to activate the camera from within a specific application take a picture and have the application process the image.

A large number of applications have been developed that incorporate the functionality of the mobile phone s camera. However an issue with this approach is that the user must launch a specific application and is then captive to that application. The viewfinder images and pictures taken within the application are not available for simultaneous use in other applications. For example if a user wants to take a video with her camera phone and upload the video to a social networking website she may have to open one application to take the video open a second application to edit or annotate the video and open a third application to upload the video. The second and third applications may not directly interface with the mobile phone s camera or camera application.

While at a tourist destination a user decides to take some pictures and videos and activates the camera feature.

She activates an augmented reality application right from the viewfinder and sees labels shown on the objects with their names and descriptions.

After a few seconds she stops the video upload and decides to take a still photo to upload to her online photo album.

She then continues to use the camera and perform other functions without leaving the camera application.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a new camera application with a plug in framework that allows multiple third party plug in applications to use the camera while the camera application is active.

Mobile phone comprises antenna radio frequency RF transceiver transmit TX processing circuitry microphone and receive RX processing circuitry . Mobile phone also comprises speaker main processor or controller input output I O interface IF keypad display memory and camera .

Radio frequency RF transceiver receives from antenna an incoming RF signal transmitted by a base station in a wireless network. Radio frequency RF transceiver down converts the incoming RF signal to produce an intermediate frequency IF or a baseband signal. The IF or baseband signal is sent to receiver RX processing circuitry that produces a processed baseband signal by filtering decoding and or digitizing the baseband or IF signal. Receiver RX processing circuitry transmits the processed baseband signal to speaker i.e. voice data or to main processor for further processing e.g. web browsing .

Transmitter TX processing circuitry receives analog or digital voice data from microphone or other outgoing baseband data e.g. web data e mail interactive video game data from main processor . Transmitter TX processing circuitry encodes multiplexes and or digitizes the outgoing baseband data to produce a processed baseband or IF signal. Radio frequency RF transceiver receives the outgoing processed baseband or IF signal from transmitter TX processing circuitry . Radio frequency RF transceiver up converts the baseband or IF signal to a radio frequency RF signal that is transmitted via antenna .

In some embodiments of the present disclosure main processor is a microprocessor or microcontroller. Memory is coupled to main processor . Memory can be any computer readable medium. For example memory can be any electronic magnetic electromagnetic optical electro optical electro mechanical and or other physical device that can contain store communicate propagate or transmit a computer program software firmware or data for use by the microprocessor or other computer related system or method. According to such embodiments part of memory comprises a random access memory RAM and another part of memory comprises a Flash memory which acts as a read only memory ROM .

Main processor executes basic operating system OS program stored in memory in order to control the overall operation of mobile phone . In one such operation main processor controls the reception of forward channel signals and the transmission of reverse channel signals by radio frequency RF transceiver receiver RX processing circuitry and transmitter TX processing circuitry in accordance with well known principles.

Main processor is capable of executing other processes and programs resident in memory . Main processor can move data into or out of memory as required by an executing process. Main processor is also coupled to camera . Main processor and or camera may include software hardware and or firmware capable of taking viewing and processing pictures and or digital images.

Main processor is also coupled to keypad and display unit . The operator of mobile phone uses keypad to enter data into mobile phone . Display may be a liquid crystal or light emitting diode LED display capable of rendering text and or graphics from web sites. Alternate embodiments may use other types of displays. In certain embodiments camera may be integrated in or otherwise a part of keypad and display .

Enhanced camera application augments or replaces a basic camera application found in traditional mobile devices. Enhanced camera application includes a tangible machine readable medium encoded with executable instructions for operating the camera of the mobile device. In certain embodiments enhanced camera application is part of the mobile device s operating system e.g. basic operating system and is operable by the main processor of the mobile device e.g. main processor . In other embodiments enhanced camera application may have a dedicated processor controller and or memory.

Enhanced camera application is coupled to an interface that includes plug in framework APIs . The plug in framework APIs allow third party developers to build plug ins that are configured to register themselves with enhanced camera application . Although four plug ins are depicted in it is understood that more fewer or other plug ins are possible. APIs allow plug ins to receive real time viewfinder images live video and pictures taken by the camera included in the mobile phone. Enhanced camera application and APIs also allow plug ins to display data in real time on the viewfinder.

Once each plug in is installed enhanced camera application auto detects the new plug in application. Then each time enhanced camera application is started it will launch one some or all of the detected plug in applications. Upon launching each plug in application enhanced camera application may add icons soft buttons or other user interface elements to the user interface UI as appropriate. For example enhanced camera application may display icons for each registered plug in application on the viewfinder. In certain embodiments each icon may be a graphical image representative of the plug in application. In other embodiments each icon may be a soft button. The user interface UI may allow for scrolling of the icons if there are more icons than can be shown on the screen at a time. The icons and other user interface elements allow a user to interact with each plug in application. This is described in greater detail below.

Control of the camera s user interface may be shared partially completely or not at all with a plug in application. For example in certain embodiments the APIs may permit the plug in application to display information directly on the viewfinder. In other embodiments the APIs may restrict direct access to the viewfinder instead requiring the plug in application to transmit the information to the enhanced camera application then the enhanced camera application displays the information received from the plug in application through the APIs.

In certain embodiments the enhanced camera application provides a level of continuity and control over the plug in applications. Different plug in applications may be used simultaneously or in sequence without the user ever having to exit the enhanced camera application. For example a user could switch back and forth between the augmented reality plug in application and the online video plug in application without exiting the enhanced camera application just by actuating icons and . In some embodiments if two plug ins that are activated at the same time require exclusive use of the viewfinder for display the enhanced camera application can split the viewfinder screen and give each plug in its own display.

Plug in applications may be offered from the OEM or service provider s application store. Third party developers and service providers may employ a variety of business models to charge for plug ins including pay per use subscription based or one time purchase fees. The plug in framework APIs disclosed herein are configurable for various charging models.

Although the disclosed enhanced camera application and interface have been described with respect to a mobile phone it is understood that the enhanced camera application and interface may also be deployed in other types of mobile device. For example the enhanced camera application and interface may be deployed in Internet enabled point and shoot and digital SLR cameras mobile Internet devices MIDs portable computers such as laptops and netbooks and other emerging mobile devices such as smartbooks.

The enhanced camera application and interface disclosed herein will attract third party developers to bring new camera based applications to devices and elevate the value to consumers. The camera phone has changed the way people use mobile phones and the disclosed enhanced camera application and interface makes it even easier to do more with the camera feature.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

