---

title: Osmotic pressure based cavitation suppression system
abstract: An acoustic source for use in a saltwater environment includes a transducer for projecting acoustic energy. The transducer is positioned within a semi-permeable membrane. The volume around the transducer within the membrane is filled with water having a lower concentration of a solute such as salt. When positioned in the saltwater environment, an osmotic pressure is created within the membrane. This osmotic pressure acts to suppress cavitation such as that which could be generated by the transducer. In further embodiments a support structure is used to support the membrane and the transducer could be an array of transducers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08325564&OS=08325564&RS=08325564
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08325564
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100727
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to the field of cavitation suppression for sonar arrays and more particularly to suppression of the cavitation that often occurs between closely spaced transducers operated at high source levels.

It is well known that the interaction between adjacent transducers in a sonar array can produce cavitation due to acoustic effects alone. Cavitation is the phase change of water from liquid to vapor induced by a pressure drop in the water. The ideal inter transducer spacing for an array of transducers disposed within a towed Variable Depth Sonar VDS needs to be a distance greater than or equal to one half of the operational wavelength of the sonar in order to minimize acoustic interactions between adjacent transducers. However low frequency and hence long wavelength sonar systems often have the array transducers spaced much closer than one half wavelength usually only a few inches apart in order to minimize the overall size of the sonar tow body. While a smaller tow body allows for ease in handling such close transducer spacing produces areas hot spots between the transducers that are susceptible to cavitation production when the transducers are driven at high source levels. This cavitation damages the transducer surfaces over time and the cavitation bubbles block the transmitted sound thereby degrading the transmitted signal. One cavitation reduction solution that has been employed previously is to accept an undesirable reduction of the acoustic pressure and hence the source level of the operating array with a corresponding decrease in sonar system performance. Another approach that has been tried is to fill in the gaps between closely spaced transducers with a rho c rubber device thereby eliminating the presence of seawater between the hot spots. Such a solution however is complicated to design and relatively high in cost to construct.

What is needed is a low cost simple to construct design for preventing cavitation from occurring between closely spaced transducers in a sonar array even when the array is operated at high source levels.

Accordingly it is a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a cavitation suppression apparatus for use with sonar transducers.

It is a still further object that the present invention be capable of eliminating cavitation produced hot spots between adjacent closely spaced transducers when the sonar system is operated at high source levels.

It is a further object of the present invention that the cavitation suppression apparatus employ means requiring minimal additional resources.

The objects described above are accomplished with the present invention by providing an acoustic source for use in a saltwater environment that includes a transducer for projecting acoustic energy. The transducer is positioned within a semi permeable membrane. The volume around the transducer within the membrane is filled with water having a lower concentration of a solute such as salt. When positioned in the saltwater environment an osmotic pressure is created within the membrane. This osmotic pressure acts to suppress cavitation such as that which could be generated by the transducer. In further embodiments a support structure is used to support the membrane and the transducer could be an array of transducers. In this embodiment cavitation between the transducers of the array can be suppressed.

The embodiment involves surrounding an acoustic transmitter or an array of transmitters with a closed semi permeable membrane structure. The effective diameter of the membrane enclosure must be sufficiently large so that the acoustic pressure just outside of the enclosure will be low enough so that cavitation will not occur. If the enclosure is too small cavitation will be suppressed just inside the enclosure due to the osmotic pressure but will still occur just outside the enclosure when the instantaneous negative acoustic pressure exceeds the hydrostatic pressure. In some cases the semi permeable membrane structure will be quite large. In other embodiments it may be more practical to focus on suppressing the cavitation occurring between closely spaced transducers.

It is well known in the fluids art that two solutions having different solute concentrations separated by a semi permeable membrane that allows water molecules but not solute molecules to pass through will generate a pressure known as osmotic pressure. The osmotic pressure results from the difference in the collective force of solute molecules impinging on both sides of the membrane. For the present inventive utilization seawater has been shown to generate a relatively high osmotic pressure of 24 atmospheres when separated from fresh water across a semi permeable membrane. This increases the allowable source level by 27 dB at sea level before cavitation occurs according to the formula SL 20 log P P where Pis the osmotic overpressure 24 atmospheres and Pis the sea level pressure or 1 atmosphere.

Membranes used in reverse osmosis are generally made out of a polyimide material that is the type chosen in the preferred embodiment primarily for the permeability to water of polyimide combined with the relative impermeability of polyimide to various dissolved impurities including salt ions and other small molecules that cannot be filtered. Other examples of semi permeable membranes that could also be used in the present invention without deviating from the teachings herein are dialysis tubing material membranes cellulose ester membranes CEM charge mosaic membranes CMM bipolar membranes BPM anion exchange membranes AEM alkali anion exchange membranes AAEM and proton exchange membranes PEM .

Cavitation is defined as the vaporization of water when the absolute pressure of the water approaches zero. For example a source generating an acoustic pressure that exceeds 1 atmosphere will cause cavitation at sea level.

In there is shown a diagram of a first embodiment of the current invention. In this embodiment an acoustic source is surrounded by saltwater . Acoustic source has a transducer capable of generating acoustic energy . Transducer is positioned inside and surrounded by a semi permeable membrane . A signal source is positioned inside membrane and joined to transducer . Support members position transducer within membrane . Transducer should be spaced away from membrane far enough that acoustic energy has dissipated sufficiently to avoid cavitation outside membrane . Interior region of membrane is filled with water having a lower salinity than surrounding seawater . Water can be freshwater distilled water or any type of water having the required salinity for creating the necessary osmotic pressure.

When acoustic source is positioned in saltwater such as ocean water water inside semi permeable membrane interior will develop an osmotic pressure of around 24 atmospheres. Upon receiving a signal from source transducer will generate acoustic energy . Osmotic pressure inside membrane significantly suppressing the onset of cavitation by increasing the cavitation threshold of the transducer by 27 dB. The high positive osmotic pressure thus generated can overcome large negative cavitation producing acoustic pressures. The 24 atmospheres of osmosis produced overpressure only induces a low flow rate through membrane inside source . The low flow rate of water out through the membrane will not significantly affect source over the timeframe of a typical mission.

It is also noted that freshwater has a slightly lower sound speed than seawater 1497 m s vs. 1500 m s at 25 C. which may require slight adjustments in time delays for sonar system array steering using well known beam steering techniques. An additive could be provided to correct this. Source could operate with less than the full 24 atmospheres of overpressure allowing some low level of salinity to be intentionally introduced in water inside membrane to compensate for sound speed differences between the water mediums while still suppressing unwanted cavitation.

In there is shown a second embodiment of the inventive acoustic source identified as . As before acoustic source is positioned in saltwater . Acoustic source has a base plate . An array of transducers is secured to plate . Transducers in array can be jointly or independently controlled as is well known in the field of sonar. Array is covered by a semi permeable membrane which is sealed against plate . Semi permeable membrane is shown in cut away to reveal interior region and array . Water having a lower solute content is provided within interior region which is further defined as the volume between plate and membrane . Again there should be sufficient spacing between the array and membrane to avoid cavitation outside membrane . When source is placed in saltwater an osmotic pressure is created in the region between plate and membrane . This pressure acts to suppress cavitation that could be induced by array .

In there is shown a third embodiment of the inventive acoustic source identified as . Acoustic source can be positioned in saltwater for operation. Source has a frame supporting transducers therein. A support member can be joined between transducers and frame . Transducers are arranged in an array . Transducers are electrically joined through wires to an electrical input in communication outside frame . A semi permeable membrane is sealed against the exterior of frame . Membrane can be sealed against one or both sides of frame . Membrane should be positioned sufficiently far from array to avoid cavitation outside membrane . If membrane is not sealed against one side of frame another suitable sealing member can be used. An interior volume is defined by frame and membrane . Membrane is shown in cut away to reveal array and volume . The interior volume is filled with water. As before water is water having a lower concentration of solute than surrounding saltwater . In this embodiment of acoustic source frame includes a fluid input and a fluid output . Fluid input and output allow refilling and replacement of water in volume . This can occur before or during operation.

When operating acoustic source is filled with water in interior volume and surrounded by saltwater . Water is osmotically pressurized by the difference in concentration across membrane . Electrical input provides a signal through wires to transducers in array . Array generates an acoustic signal. Acoustic signal is prevented from inducing cavitation by the surrounding osmotic pressure. Should too much water escape through semi permeable membrane fluid input can be used to replenish the water.

In there is shown a fourth embodiment of the acoustic source identified as . Acoustic source has at least one acoustically transparent plate . Source has a second plate that can be acoustically transparent. Acoustically transparent plate and second plate are spaced apart from one another by supports . One or more transducers are positioned between plates and . Transducers can be joined to an electrical input in order to provide transducers with electrical signals. A semi permeable membrane is sealed against the outer edges of plates and creating a sealed volume between plates and . Membrane is partially cut away to show the interior of plates and . Sealed volume is filled with water having a low solute content. Acoustic source is positioned for operation in saltwater .

In operation transducers generate acoustic energy through acoustically transparent plate . Acoustically transparent plate should be positioned sufficiently far from transducer so that acoustic energy doesn t cause cavitation on the saltwater side of plate.

The present invention has many advantages and new features. The invention provides a low cost practical approach for increasing the effective static pressure around an array of transducers susceptible to cavitation thereby suppressing the onset of such cavitation. The overpressure developed inside the source is not affected by increases in depth in contrast to other cavitation reduction methods. Being able to pack transducers closer than one half wavelength together permits use of smaller tow body that is easier to deploy and retrieve. The low flow rate of water across the membranes will not impact missions of typical length.

What has thus been described is an apparatus for suppressing cavitation produced hot spots that are generated between closely spaced transducers disposed in a low frequency transducer array that is designed for immersive use in seawater. The transducers are enclosed within a water filled structure having semi permeable membranes separating the interior water from the surrounding seawater. The interior water has a lower concentration of salt than the surrounding seawater. The presence of water inside the structure produces substantial osmotic pressure across the membrane and within the structure. The osmotic pressure raises the cavitation threshold pressure level that in turn suppresses the onset of cavitation when the sonar array is operated at high source levels.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention may become apparent in light of the above teachings. The invention can be used to suppress cavitation for many other types of transducers because the concept is very general. Many types of semi permeable membranes may be used within the scope of the invention as taught. Semi permeable membranes surrounded by a higher solute solution can also provide an approach to apply static overpressure to a cavitation prone component when the design can tolerate a small amount of flow across the membrane.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

