---

title: Providing interactive services to enhance information presentation experiences using wireless technologies
abstract: Systems, methods, and devices that provide interactive services relating to an information presentation to user equipment (UE) are presented. A presentation management component (PMC) provides at least a portion of the information presentation to one or more UEs, which can be integrated with the PMC, to facilitate enabling one or more UE users to use interactive services in relation to a tour of a point(s) of interest associated with the PMC. The interactive services comprise, for example, broadcast communications to desired UEs in a tour group, UE clustering, customized tour recommendations, whiteboard feature, note-taking functions, “slow down” option, and “raise hand” option. Respective UEs in a group are configured to be a master UE, sub-master UE, or slave UE, wherein the master UE at least partially controls communications of the other UEs in the group, and the sub-master UE at least partially controls communications of UEs in a sub-group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143881&OS=09143881&RS=09143881
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09143881
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101025
---
The subject specification generally relates to communication services and more particularly to systems methods and devices for providing interactive services to enhance information presentation experiences using wireless technologies.

People can sometimes participate in group experiences such as for example guided tours of museums historical locations or other places or items of interest. Such group experiences can occur for instance in relation to family excursions e.g. while on vacation research trips or projects school related field trips etc. During a group experience one or more persons e.g. tour guides presenters persons in the group with questions or comments etc. can be speaking or otherwise presenting information to the group of people. However often there can be impediments that interfere with at least some people in the group being able to hear or receive the information being presented. For example a tour guide may be leading a group of people in a tour of a point of interest wherein the tour guide is speaking to the group to provide informative information or other desired information to the group while walking with the group through the point of interest. For a variety of reasons such as the distance of the tour guide from certain persons in the group e.g. certain persons are at the end of a long line of people in the group and the tour guide is at the head of the line the volume of the tour guide s voice ambient noise in the area of the group others in the group speaking at the same time as the tour guide etc. certain persons in the group are not able to hear or receive the presentation by the tour guide or at least have difficulty in hearing or receiving the presentation sometimes even if the tour guide is shouting.

As another example a tour may involve a number of points of interest over a relatively large area e.g. a tour of Wall Street or other region of New York City wherein the tour group attempts to follow the tour guide who can be holding an umbrella or flag for all in the group to see so that the people in the group can stay with the group and not fall behind the group or become lost. Here again hearing the tour guide speak over the noise of the city can be difficult particularly if the person is towards the back of the group away from the tour guide. Further there can be a number of different tour groups visiting the same landmark at the same time which can make it even more difficult to hear the tour guide of a person s particular group as the tour guides of the tour groups can be speaking loudly at the same time. Also if there are a number of different tour groups with a number of different flags it can be difficult for a person to identify to which group the person belongs.

Still another issue is that various tour members may come from different countries having different languages and such tour members may not speak the same language as the tour guide. Often a tour member will only speak one language and the tour guide does not speak that language. Further even if the tour guide is able to speak more than one language it can take extra time for the tour guide to repeat the same information in multiple languages.

In other instances a person may be participating in an individual tour of a point of interest e.g. museum aquarium landmark etc. . The person typically can have limited choices in such tour experience. For example the person can have a brochure and or map which the person can study and the person can tour or browse through the point of interest based on the information in the brochure or the person can rent a wireless device e.g. wireless device with earphones that can act as an electronic tour guide and can guide the person through the point of interest. In the case of the latter the wireless device may provide background explanations historic illustrations directions relating to the point of interest e.g. directions to guide the person through a building or other information relating to the point of interest. In both of these instances there is no interaction feature provided to enable the person to solicit information provide feedback or otherwise actively interact with the tour experience. The tour experience is essentially uni directional.

Yet another issue is that during a tour even with conventional wireless devices being employed as part of the tour a tour guide may desire to provide additional description of a point of interest beyond what is being provided by the wireless device of the tour member or the tour member may desire to personalize the tour by taking notes relating to the tour. However as stated the conventional wireless devices are essentially uni directional in that such devices only provide predefined information to the person.

Another issue is that a person taking part in a tour e.g. individually or as part of a group may have particular reasons for taking part in the tour or may have certain time constraints in taking the tour. However again conventional wireless devices are essentially uni directional and static in that such devices only provide predefined information to the person.

When taking a tour or engaging in another activity wherein presentations are made people can desire an enjoyable and informative experience. However the aforementioned drawbacks of today s presentations e.g. tour presentation to a group or an individual can result in a less enjoyable experience for the person s participating in the presentation experience e.g. tour . Today there is no way to provide a desirable interactive experience during a presentation and to enhance the presentation experience of a person or group participating in the presentation experience.

The above described deficiencies of today s systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

The following presents a simplified summary of the various embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Systems methods and devices that can provide interactive services relating to an information presentation to user equipment UE are presented. In an aspect a presentation management component PMC can provide at least a portion of the information presentation e.g. tour of one or more points of interest wherein the tour can be an indoor or outdoor tour an individual or a group tour to one or more UEs which can be integrated with the PMC to facilitate enabling one or more UE users to use interactive services in relation to the information presentation associated with the PMC. The interactive services can include for example broadcast communications to desired UEs in a tour group uni cast communications with a desired UE user UE clustering customized tour recommendations whiteboard feature note taking functions slow down option raise hand option and targeted advertisements. In an aspect respective UEs in a tour group can be configured to be a master UE e.g. controller UE sub master UE e.g. sub controller UE or slave UE e.g. member UE wherein the master UE can at least partially control communications of the other UEs in the group and the sub master UE can at least partially control communications of UEs in a sub group of the group.

In accordance with various aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a system that includes a communication device that is configured to communicate with at least one other communication device associated with a communication network. The system can further include a presentation control component PCC that is configured to be associated with the communication device wherein the PCC is further configured to integrate the communication device with at least a PMC wherein the PMC provides a set of interactive services usable by the communication device in relation to an information presentation.

In accordance with various other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a method that includes the acts of integrating at least one UE with a PMC to facilitate providing a subset of interactive services to the at least one UE for use in relation to an information presentation and using at least one interactive service of the subset of interactive services to collaboratively exchange information between the at least one UE and at least the PMC at least during the information presentation.

In accordance with still other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a system that includes a PMC that is configured to integrate at least one mobile communication device with the PMC to provide at least a portion of an information presentation and a subset of interactive services relating to the information presentation to the at least one mobile communication device and at least one user associated with the at least one mobile communication device. The system can further include at least one application that is configured to be downloadable to the at least one mobile communication device wherein the at least one application is further configured to facilitate integration of the at least one mobile communication device with the PMC and access of the subset of interactive services by the at least one mobile communication device.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments herein.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station communication device access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device e.g. cellular phone smart phone computer personal digital assistant PDA set top box STB Internet Protocol Television IPTV electronic watch with communication capabilities electronic gaming device multi media recorder player video recorder player audio recorder player printer etc. utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream or in an embodiment a wired e.g. landline communication device that has mobile messaging functionality and is utilized by a subscriber to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point base station Node B evolved Node B home Node B HNB femto access point femtocell pico access point picocell and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms.

Many people take tours of museums aquarium or other facilities or other points of interest which can be outdoors or indoors. Typically if a person is doing a tour individually the person only has limited options for the tour experience as the person can use a brochure or map as a guide to taking the tour or the person can rent a wireless receiver with earphones that can be used to receive information regarding points of interest along the tour or directions to guide the person through the tour. However such a tour experience is uni directional and not interactive. During group tours a tour guide can lead a tour group of people to show exhibits landmarks and other points of interest wherein the tour guide can give background or historical information or other information along the tour. Some problems with a group tour is that some people in the group can sometimes fall behind the tour group and or are not able to hear the tour guide when the guide is speaking due to the distance away from the tour guide and or noise e.g. other people speaking traffic noise other tour groups etc. . Thus currently there are these and other drawbacks in individual and group tour experiences.

To that end systems methods and devices that provide interactive services relating to an information presentation to a UE s are presented. A presentation management component PMC can provide at least a portion of the information presentation to one or more UEs which can be integrated with the PMC to facilitate enabling one or more UE users to use interactive services in relation to the information presentation e.g. tour of one or more points of interest associated with the PMC. The interactive services can include for example broadcast communications to desired UEs in a tour group uni cast communications with a desired UE user UE clustering customized tour recommendations whiteboard feature note taking functions slow down option e.g. modify tour pace request option raise hand option e.g. communication request option and targeted advertisements. In an aspect respective UEs in a tour group can be configured to be a master UE e.g. controller UE sub master UE e.g. sub controller UE or slave UE e.g. member UE wherein the master UE can at least partially control communications of the other UEs in the group and the sub master UE can at least partially control communications of UEs in a sub group of the group.

Referring to the drawings is a block diagram of an example system that can enhance communications relating to information presentations e.g. tour presentations convention presentations etc. in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. In an aspect the system can include a desired number of UEs e.g. mobile and or wireless communication device such as a mobile phone e.g. 3GPP UMTS phone personal digital assistant PDA computer electronic notebook portable electronic gaming device wearable communication device e.g. an electronic watch with communication capabilities that can be strapped to a user such as a child etc. comprising for example UE UE and UE in a communication network environment wherein UE UE and UE can be connected via respective wireless communication connections to a communication network via an AP for example. It is to be appreciated and understood that while only one AP is shown in this is only for reasons of brevity and clarity and it is to be appreciated and understood that in accordance with other embodiments there can be more than one AP wherein respective UEs can be connected with respective APs e.g. one or more UEs can be connected to a first AP one or more other UEs can be connected to another AP . . . . It is also to be appreciated and understood that while three UEs are shown in the disclosed subject matter is not so limited as in accordance with various other embodiments of the disclosed subject matter there can be less than three UEs or more than three UEs. For example if an individual is taking a tour by himself or herself the disclosed subject matter can comprise one UE that is used by that individual during the interactive tour.

In an aspect as a UE e.g. moves through a wireless communication network environment at various times the UE e.g. can be connected e.g. wirelessly connected to one of a plurality of APs e.g. macro AP femto AP pico AP Wi Fi AP Wi Max AP etc. such as an AP that can operate in the wireless communication network environment. An AP e.g. can serve a specified coverage area to facilitate communication by the UE e.g. in the wireless communication network environment. The AP can serve a respective coverage cell e.g. macrocell femtocell picocell etc. that can cover a respective specified area and the AP can service mobile wireless devices such as UE e.g. located in the respective area covered by the respective cell where such coverage can be achieved via a wireless link e.g. uplink UL downlink DL . When an attachment attempt is successful the UE e.g. can be served by the AP and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the UE e.g. through the AP and outgoing voice and data traffic from the UE e.g. can be paged and routed through the AP to other communication devices e.g. another UE in the communication network environment. In an aspect the UE e.g. can be connected and can communicate wirelessly using virtually any desired wireless technology including for example cellular Wi Fi Wi Max wireless local area networks WLAN etc.

In another aspect the communication network e.g. 2G 3G 4G or xG network where x can be virtually any desired integer or real value can facilitate wireless connection with the UEs and connected to the AP and facilitate communication by or between a UE e.g. and another UE s e.g. or other communication device s associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network e.g. a core network or network comprising a core network and or IP based network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between a communication device s e.g. UE and other communication devices e.g. UE communication device associated with the PMC landline phone computer email server STB multimedia server audio server video server news server financial or stock information server other communication devices etc. associated with the communication network in the communication network environment. The communication network also can allocate resources to the UEs e.g. in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce Quality of Service QoS for the UEs provide applications or services in the communication network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the communication network e.g. wireless portion of the communication network or wireline portion of the communication network . The communication network further can include desired components such as routers nodes switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices in the communication network environment.

In accordance with various aspects the UEs can be employed to facilitate interactive presentation of information for example in relation to a tour presentation a convention presentation or other desired type of information presentation. For instance in one aspect the UE can be configured to be a master UE and the UEs and can be configured to be slave UEs to the UE wherein the UE as the master UE can control the presentation of information to and receipt of information from the slave UEs such as UEs and . The presentation of information can relate for example to a tour a convention or a business meeting or other event wherein it is desired to present information via the UEs. As another example the UE can be configured to be a master UE UE can be configured as a sub master UE and the UE can be configured as a slave UE wherein the UE as master UE can control presentation of information to and receipt of information from UEs and and UE as sub master UE can at least partially control presentation of information to and receipt of information from UE the slave UE while the UE also can be considered a slave UE to the UE . This arrangement of master UE sub master UE s and slave UE s can be desirable for example when a family a school class or a group of employees are taking part in the information presentation as the presenter e.g. tour guide can utilize the master UE the head of the group or sub group e.g. the parent of a family the teacher or chaperone of a school class or the boss or manager of a group of employees can utilize the sub master UE and the others in the group or sub group e.g. the children of a family the students of a class or the employees can utilize the slave UEs.

In another aspect the system can comprise a PMC that can control provisioning of respective UEs e.g. with the PMC based at least in part on the respective UE identifiers e.g. MSISDNs of the respective UEs presentation of information to the UEs and receipt of information from the UE UE UE and other communication devices associated with the system recording and storing of information presented or obtained in relation to the information presentation e.g. information presented to the UEs and associated users information such as comments questions pictures video etc. received from users via their UEs in relation to the information presentation and other desired operational aspects of the system .

In accordance with various aspects the UEs can be communication devices that are preconfigured or at least partially preconfigured for use in the interactive information presentation e.g. UE can be preconfigured to be integrated or integrable with the PMC and other associated components of the system wherein for example users can rent or lease the preconfigured UEs for use during the information presentation or a user s UE can be configured at or near the time the user is preparing to take part in the interactive information presentation e.g. user s UE can be configured at a desired time to be integrated or integrable with the PMC and other associated components of the system . As desired the preconfigured UEs and the user s UE can be configured to operate the same or at least substantially the same in relation to the information presentation or the preconfigured UEs can be configured differently than the user s UE in relation to the information presentation to facilitate further information control e.g. if desired the user s UE can be provided a subset e.g. a subset less than a full set of the functionality of the preconfigured UEs . The PMC can be employed to facilitate registering and configuring a user s UE e.g. to be used as part of the information presentation wherein a tour guide or an administrator can facilitate registering and configuring UEs for use in the information presentation. The UEs e.g. when configured can be used to transmit and or receive broadcast communications and uni cast communications and can be used for interactive communication activities such as more fully disclosed herein. As desired UE users can be provided and or can use earphones not shown in e.g. as shown in that can be connected with their UEs via a wired or wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth wireless connection to facilitate receiving audio portions of the information presentation or can utilize the speaker s on the UE to receive audio portions of the information presentation. In an embodiment for APs e.g. femto APs that employ whitelists when a UE e.g. is provisioned by the PMC the PMC can communicate information e.g. UE identifier regarding the provisioned UE to the APs e.g. associated with the PMC and the APs can add the provisioned UE to the whitelist to facilitate enabling the UE to connect with and communicate via the APs while the UE is provisioned with the PMC e.g. while the UE is in active mode .

In an aspect with regard to grouping UEs and broadcast communications between UEs in a group the system can enable a larger number of UEs and associated UE users to be grouped together e.g. 5 10 25 50 or more UEs and associated users in a tour group than typical family plans or bundles. To facilitate such grouping and communications the communication network and or the PMC can be configurable and operable to dynamically group UEs together to form a group e.g. add UEs to the group as the respective UEs are provisioned and integrated with the PMC in relation to an information presentation and de group UEs at the end of the information presentation or when it is desired to remove a UE s from the group wherein group information can be updated and synchronized between the communication network PMC and UEs e.g. associated with the group as desired e.g. real time or near real time modification of a grouping . In another aspect the communication network e.g. core network and or IP based network and or the PMC can be configurable and operable to allocate desired communication resources to facilitate establishing and maintaining communication services between UEs in a group e.g. establishing and maintaining continuous or substantially continuous communication connections between UEs in a group for all or a desired portion s of the time the UEs in the group are grouped together and desired communications including broadcast communications e.g. voice or data communications such as portion of an information presentation such as video pictures or audio comment from the tour guide to group members comment from a tour group member to other group members and or the tour guide etc. between UEs in the group. For instance when a broadcast communication is sent from one UE e.g. to a plurality of UEs e.g. in the group the PMC and or the communication network can be operable to have the broadcast communication e.g. voice or data communications such as video audio tour guide commentary etc. communicated from the sending UE to the plurality of UEs at the same or substantially the same time so that the UEs and associated UE users in the group can receive the broadcast communication at the same or substantially the same time to facilitate desired presentation of or communications related to the information presentation.

Referring to is a block diagram of another example system that can enhance communications relating to presentations e.g. tour presentations convention presentations etc. in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. The system can include a desired number of UEs such as UE UE and UE a communication network a desired number of APs including AP and a PMC wherein these components of the system each can be the same or similar as and can comprise the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components such as described herein.

In an aspect the UEs and can be respective configured so that the UEs can be desirably operable e.g. broadcast capabilities interactive communication functionality etc. for use in an information presentation. For instance one or more respective applications such as an interactive presentation application s e.g. master interactive presentation application sub master interactive presentation application slave interactive presentation application can be downloaded to the respective UEs wherein the respective application s can be used to configure the respective UEs to be a master UE a sub master UE or a slave UE in relation to the information presentation. For instance the UE can be configured to be a master UE UE can be configured to be a sub master UE that can be a slave UE in relation to UE and a master UE in relation to UE and UE can be configured to be a slave UE in relation to UEs and .

In accordance with various aspects to facilitate configuring a UE the UE e.g. can exchange information with the PMC using near field communication NFC e.g. when the UE is equipped with NFC functionality using a bar code scanning mechanism not shown associated with the PMC e.g. the PMC can use a bar code scanner to scan the desired UE to obtain desired information e.g. UE identifier such as MSISDN identifier available functionalities of the UE etc. from the UE or via a wired or wireless e.g. cellular Wi Fi etc. connection with the PMC .

In accordance with various other aspects a UE can be configured to contain a desired type of presentation control component PCC e.g. local primary PMC LPPMC local secondary PMC LSPMC local presentation component LPC to facilitate providing the UE user with a desirable interactive information presentation experience. In an aspect when a UE is configured as a master UE the UE can comprise a LPPMC that can be employed to control presentation of information to and receipt of information from UEs e.g. that are slave UEs in relation to the UE as more fully disclosed herein. When configured as a sub master UE the UE can comprise a LSPMC that can be employed to at least partially control presentation of information to and receipt of information from UEs e.g. that are slave UEs in relation to the UE and other communications with UEs e.g. collaborative communication sessions comments private chats etc. as more fully disclosed herein. When configured as a slave UE the UE can comprise a LPC that can be employed to facilitate receiving information from UEs e.g. that serve as master UEs in relation to the UE and other communications with UEs e.g. collaborative communication sessions comments private chats etc. as more fully disclosed herein.

In accordance with various aspects the LPPMC of the UE the LSPMC of the UE and or the LPC of the UE can be employed to select a respective desired language option e.g. English Spanish French Italian Japanese etc. for the presentation e.g. textual presentation audio presentation of information to the respective users on their respective UEs . The PMC LPPMC LSPMC and or LPC can translate and or provide a translation of information for presentation to a UE and associated UE user. For instance the PMC and or the LPPMC can provide information which is pre translated to a desired language to a desired UE and or the PMC LPPMC LSPMC and or LPC can perform real time translation of information e.g. answers to questions from UE users comments other information outside of the standard information presentation etc. from one language to a desired language s for presentation to on a desired UE and associated UE user.

In another aspect the PMC can comprise a whiteboard component not shown in e.g. as shown in e.g. including whiteboard display that can be available to the UEs and to allow the associated to interact with each other by using their respective UEs or to compose and send comments or questions regarding a particular topic wherein the respective UEs and can access the whiteboard component the comments or questions can be viewed on the whiteboard component in a language desired by a respective UE user using the respective UE.

In still another aspect the PMC can record all interactions and communications of the respective UEs and e.g. communications of the UEs while the respective UEs are in active mode in a centralized server not shown in associated with the PMC . In yet another aspect at a desired time e.g. after the information presentation is finished the PMC can generate a copy of the information presentation the recorded interactions and communications and or other associated information which can be provided to the UE user in a desired format e.g. digital versatile disc DVD compact disc CD downloadable file etc. as desired e.g. available as a purchase . In an aspect at a desired time e.g. during the information presentation a UE user can use a UE e.g. to replay or review a desired portion of an information presentation or other information related thereto. If a next portion of information relating to the information presentation is being sent to the UE while the UE is being used to replay or review another portion of the information presentation or other related information the next portion of information can be recorded by the PMC for later presentation to the UE and or a notification that the next portion of information is being presented can be sent by the PMC and or controller UE to the UE wherein the UE user can decide whether to continue reviewing or replaying the previous information or perceive the next portion of information. After a UE user is finished reviewing a previous portion of the information presentation or information relating thereto the UE can be employed to control the speed of the information presentation e.g. speed up the presentation of information to allow the UE user to view any portion of the information presentation or other related information e.g. group comments that the UE user may have missed while reviewing or replaying the previous portion of the information presentation for example until the information presented on the UE is back to the current point of the information presentation.

In still another aspect the respective UE and can include location indicating functionality e.g. global positioning system GPS that can facilitate identifying the respective locations of the respective UEs and . Based at least in part on location related information of the respective UEs sensed by the PMC the PMC can sense and identify the respective locations of the respective UEs and . The PMC can provide the respective locations of the respective UEs and or wherein the locations of respective UEs and or e.g. icons respectively associated with the respective UEs can be displayed on the respective display screens of the UEs and or to facilitate enabling the respective UE users to identify the location of the other members of the group so that the members can find or stay with their group which can be useful for example when touring a large area e.g. Wall Street movie studio amusement park etc. .

In an aspect users utilizing the respective UEs and or and employing their respective LPPMC LSPMC or LPC can cluster and or sub cluster desired UEs e.g. icons that represent the desired UEs and when a cluster is selected for display on a particular UE e.g. and or the respective locations of respective UEs in that selected cluster can be displayed on a display screen of the particular UE e.g. location clustering display can be presented on the particular UE to facilitate identifying the respective locations of the UE users associated with the UEs in the cluster based at least in part on one or more specified preferences e.g. clustering preferences . For example UE user of UE can desire to have a first cluster comprising all of the UEs in the group and in response to instructions and preferences received by the UE from the UE user the LSPMC can facilitate creating the first cluster and when that first cluster is selected the UE can display the respective locations of all of the respective UEs in the group when desired e.g. when the cluster is selected for display the UE user of UE also can desire to have a sub cluster that includes only members e.g. family members of the UE user s sub group e.g. family and in response to instructions and preferences received by the UE from the UE user the LSPMC can create a sub cluster comprising only the UEs of members in the sub group wherein the respective locations of the respective UEs in the sub group can be displayed by the UE when desired e.g. when the sub cluster is selected for display .

In yet another aspect the clusters also can be used to filter the UEs to which communications are sent or broadcast or to filter the display of content from respective UEs for example as displayed on the whiteboard component. For instance the UE user of UE can desire that a particular communication only go to members of the sub cluster and not to all UE users in the group which are part of the first cluster. The UE user can use the UE employing the LSPMC to select the sub cluster and the UE can broadcast the desired information e.g. via voice communication textual communication etc. to the UEs in the sub cluster and the UEs e.g. in the sub cluster can receive and present the desired information to the respectively associated UE users and the other UEs that are not in the sub cluster will not receive that information.

As another example the LPC of the UE can create a sub cluster comprising only members e.g. family members of that UE users sub group e.g. family wherein the sub cluster can include UE e.g. UE associated with the parent of that UE user of UE . The UE user of UE can desire to display only the information on the whiteboard component that was posted by UEs e.g. in the sub cluster. The UE user of UE can use the UE to select the sub cluster in relation to selection of the whiteboard component and in response the selections of the UE user the PMC and or LPC can filter the information displayed on the whiteboard component so that only the information posted on the whiteboard by the members of the sub cluster e.g. information posted using UEs or are displayed on the UE .

In still another aspect a sub master UE e.g. can be employed to facilitate controlling communications between the UEs in the sub master UE s sub group and another sub group of UEs controlled by another sub master UE. When permitted by the sub master UE e.g. and associated user of a first sub group to which a slave UE e.g. belongs and the sub master UE and associated user of a second sub group to which another UE e.g. slave UE sub master UE the user of the slave UE e.g. of the first sub group that desires to communicate with the UE that is part of the second sub group can include the other UE in a cluster provided the other UE does not have a preference parameter set to prevent that UE from being included in the cluster .

In an aspect a UE e.g. using the available LPPMC LSPMC or LPC can set various user preferences by setting respective user preference parameters in relation to communications between the UE and other UEs in the group of UEs. The user preferences can relate to for example information presentation or tour customization e.g. information presentation or tour can be customized to meet the UE user s desires clustering of UEs controlling communications between subordinate UEs e.g. when the UE is a master UE or sub master UE broadcast communications associated with UEs uni cast communications associated with UEs volume preferences language translation services UE location preferences direction preferences e.g. shortest distance shortest time best tour route handicap accommodations etc. whiteboard preferences information preferences e.g. types of additional information relating a topic the UE user desires advertisement preferences etc. etc.

In accordance with yet another aspect the PMC can customize the information presentation e.g. tour presentation that the UE user experiences using the UE e.g. based at least in part on current location of the UE user and associated UE preferences specified by the UE user time constraints of the UE user e.g. the amount of time the UE user desires to spend taking part in the information presentation current state of the facility programs or exhibits e.g. number of persons occupying respective areas of the facility respectively how busy respective areas of the facility are what exhibits or programs are currently available for access and what programs are not currently available for access what exhibits or programs will be available for access during the period of time specified by the UE user and or other desired factors.

For example a UE user employing a UE e.g. and associated available LPPMC LSPMC or LPC can specify desired user preferences selections or requests e.g. certain programs or exhibits the UE user desires to see during the tour types of subject matter in which the UE user is interested shortest distance for tour route shortest time for tour route best tour route handicap accommodations etc. and that the UE user only has from 1 00 p.m. to 3 00 p.m. to take the tour wherein the user preferences and time constraints of the UE user can be sent from the UE to the PMC . The PMC can receive the preferences and time constraints and also can identify the current location of the UE and the current status of the facility programs exhibits etc. related to the tour. The PMC can analyze the user preferences time constraints UE location and current status of the facility programs exhibits etc. related to the tour and can generate a customized tour itinerary e.g. optimized tour itinerary recommendation for the UE user based at least in part on the results of the analysis wherein the customized tour itinerary can comprise information such as for example information identifying the programs exhibits or other items that will be part of the customized tour the respective times of the programs exhibits or other items directions to guide the UE user to the programs exhibits or other items summaries of the programs exhibits or other items and or other desired information. The PMC also can generate a customized information presentation that can be sent to the UE for presentation to the UE user while the UE user proceeds through the tour. The PMC can send the customized tour itinerary to the UE of the UE user and as desired the UE user can use the customized tour itinerary to take the tour.

If for some reason while taking the tour the UE user desires to adjust the user s preferences or time constraints the UE user can use the UE to send the desired changes to the preferences or time constraints to the PMC and the PMC can analyze the desired changes current UE location and current status of programs exhibits items etc. of the tour and can automatically and dynamically modify and update the customized tour itinerary and the updated customized tour itinerary can be sent to the UE for use by the UE user as desired. The PMC also can automatically and dynamically generate an updated information presentation that can correspond to the updated customized tour itinerary and associated updated customized tour route wherein the updated information presentation can be transmitted e.g. streamed to the UE of the user as the user proceeds along the tour route associated with the updated customized tour itinerary. In an aspect the PMC can synchronize or substantially synchronize the transmission of the information presentation to the UE for presentation to the user based at least in part on the location of the UE along the tour route.

In still another aspect the PMC can coordinate with more than one UE and associated UE users in a particular to automatically generate a customized tour itinerary for all of the UEs in that group based at least in part on an analysis of preferences of these UE users time constraints of the UE users location of the UEs and current status of the programs exhibits items etc. of the tour or the PMC can automatically generate respective customized tour itineraries that respectively cover respective portions of the tour based at least in part on an analysis of preferences of these UE users time constraints of the UE users location of the UEs and current status of the programs exhibits items etc. of the tour e.g. customized tour itineraries for four students who want to split up the tour into four separate portions so the students can split up and take the respective portions of the tour in order to finish the tour faster but still cover the desired parts of the tour . In another aspect the PMC and the respective UEs of the UE users can operate to provide collaborative services wherein for instance the respective UEs can communicate with each other using broadcast or uni cast communications and the PMC can store such communications wherein those communications and or other information associated with the tour can be provided to the UE users as desired as more fully disclosed herein.

In an aspect while a UE user proceeds through the facility or other area associated with the information presentation the PMC employing sensors not shown in can sense and identify the current location of a UE and or movement of the UE or associated UE user and when the UE or UE user is in proximity to e.g. within a predefined distance away from an exhibit e.g. display item the PMC can automatically present or automatically send a notification to the UE to notify the user of information relating to the exhibit based at least in part on the user s preferences e.g. user preference to have information relating to display items automatically streamed to the UE user preference to receive a notification that a presentation regarding the display item is available and to stream the presentation in response to an indication from the UE that the user desires to receive the presentation . As desired when the UE is part of a group and the UE is a slave UE e.g. the master UE e.g. or sub master UE e.g. can control the presentation of information relating to the exhibit to the slave UE and or the triggering of the presentation of such information or notification of the availability of such information can be based at least in part on the master UE s or sub master UE s proximity to the exhibit rather than the slave UE s proximity to the exhibit.

In accordance with various aspects the respective UE users can use their respective UEs e.g. employing the respectively associated available LPPMC LSPMC or LPC to generate notes comments or other information e.g. voice data textual data visual content audio content multimedia content etc. that can be communicated from the respective UEs to the PMC which can aggregate and store the received information generate and or maintain an association of respective portions of information to respective UEs and associated UE users generate and or maintain contextual information relating to the respective portions of information e.g. time the information portion was created the destination to which the information portion is directed the exhibit or portion of the presentation that was occurring when the information portion was created etc. etc. For instance for each UE user the PMC can create a user file that can include information relating to the information presentation wherein the information can comprise for example notes or comments associated with the UE user information presentation information whiteboard information other public semi public or private e.g. private to the UE user or other desired associated UE users information relating to the information presentation contextual information visual content audio content multimedia content information e.g. URL s book s or other information relating to other sources of information related to the information presentation etc. As desired the information or a portion thereof contained in the user file of the UE user can be provided to the user e.g. at a desired cost in a desired format e.g. DVD CD file download etc. .

In an aspect as desired when a UE e.g. is in active mode e.g. while the UE is integrated with the PMC the PCC e.g. LPPMC LSPMC LPC of the UE can control information e.g. pictures video audio etc. captured by the UE so that such information is not locally stored on the UE but rather can be communicated to the PMC to be stored by the PMC . This can enable the entity e.g. museum aquarium associated with the PMC having control over the members of the tour group taking pictures or video or otherwise recording portions of the tour. This can facilitate inducing a member of the tour group to purchase the DVD CD or file of the tour experience from the entity which can thereby increase revenue for the entity.

In still other aspects the PMC can identify targeted information e.g. targeted information that can provide other information relating to the information presentation targeted advertisements for products or services etc. that can be based at least in part on contextual information and or current or historical information relating to the UE e.g. and the associated UE user. The PMC can generate such targeted information during the time when the UE is in active mode with regard to the PMC e.g. when the UE and UE user are taking part in the information presentation or at a future time e.g. at or after the time the UE and UE user are finished with the information presentation and the targeted information can be provided to the UE of the user or another communication device of the user e.g. home personal computer in a desired format e.g. email text message computer readable media hard copy printed document etc. . As desired the targeted information can be provided by the PMC on behalf of an entity that desires the targeted information to be sent to the UE in exchange for a desired amount of compensation e.g. monetary compensation or for no compensation from the entity. In an aspect the UE of the user can be employed to act as a charge card e.g. credit card or employed in another desired manner to facilitate payment of any amount due if any for the purchase of the targeted information. For instance the UE can be associated with a charge account of the UE user and the charge account of the UE user can be charged with any amount due in relation to the purchase of the targeted information.

In another aspect the PMC and or the master UE e.g. also can comprise an information push option e.g. push component wherein in response to a push command e.g. push command received by the UE from the tour guide the PMC and or master UE e.g. can push certain information e.g. information relating to the information presentation recommendations for products or services tour itinerary voting button relating to voting for items relating to the tour wherein a future portion of the itinerary of the tour can be determined based at least in part on the votes of the respective UE users in the tour group an available meal menu provided in relation to the information presentation a customized tour map that was requested by a UE user s e.g. in a group or sub group a game relating to the tour group etc. to the UEs e.g. sub master UE s or slave UE s of a group or a subset of UEs of a group e.g. UEs in a sub cluster based at least in part on preferences or requests of a UE user associated with a UE agreed exchange of information between the PMC and or the master UE e.g. and or other UEs in the group if any e.g. information agreed to be exchanged when a UE registers with the entity associated with the PMC and enters active mode etc. For instance with regard to a master UE e.g. or a sub master UE e.g. such master or sub master UE can push information to one or more desired UEs e.g. in a group or sub group in accordance with preferences of UE users and or the agreed exchange of information relating to the information presentation etc.

In yet another aspect if the UEs e.g. in the group have been pre provisioned with the PMC the PMC and or the master UE e.g. can be employed to provide a wake up call service wherein the PMC and or master UE e.g. can send a wake up call or alert to the UEs in the group at a desired time to notify the UE users that it is time to wake up or take other action in response to the wake up call or alert. The PMC and or master UE e.g. also can send other types of alerts to the other UEs e.g. in the group wherein an alert can relate to for example a start time for a program lecture or other event a meeting time e.g. time for the members of a group to meet up with each other an end time of a tour or portion thereof etc.

The following non limiting example of various aspects of the disclosed subject matter relates to how UEs can be used in relation to an interactive tour of an outdoor location e.g. Wall Street . For instance a tour guide company has 20 tourists in a group called Joy Tour group which is composed of 5 families. This company contacts a store that provides communication devices and leases tour ready UEs including UEs that are pre provisioned with the PMC . One UE e.g. is configured as the master UE or controller that includes a LPPMC . Five UEs e.g. are configured as sub masters or sub controllers that each can comprise respective LSPMCs . The remaining UEs e.g. are configured as slaves or group members and can have respective LPCs . Some families have small children and therefore the member UEs comprise a variety of different types of communication devices such as for example smart phones pendant like communication devices that can be worn on the user s body watch like communication devices that can be strapped to the wrist of the user etc. All or at least a desired portion of the UEs also have a pair of Bluetooth enabled earphones that can be used to wirelessly communication information from the respective UEs to the respective earphones. All of the UEs are respectively associated with respective unique UE identifiers and also include GPS functionality.

At the start of the tour all of the UEs are distributed to the tourists in the group. Two of the adult tourists from two different families request to use their own smart phones which are accepted by the tour guide and provisioned with the PMC . The tour guide assists the tourists to configure their smart phones to become sub controllers comprising respective LSPMCs for their respective sub groups e.g. respective families . Also one family is from China and does not understand English. The tour guide assists them to set their UEs using LSPMC or LPC on the respective UEs with the Chinese language option. As a result all interactions with those UEs during the tour will be translated from Chinese to English when being transmitted from the UEs to the other UEs in the group and English to Chinese when information is being received from other UEs in real time or near real time and pre recorded portions of the tour presentation can be pre translated to Chinese for transmission and presentation to the UEs of that family. This language translation feature can enable this non English speaking family to enjoy the tour without feeling left out.

The tour group is visiting the Wall Street District. There are at least 40 tourist groups in the financial district that day. As a result without the use of the earphones no one can quite hear what the tour guide is talking about. Members follow the tour guide person in a long line. After a few minutes a few of the group members who walk behind cannot even see the tour guide anymore.

Fortunately the Joy Tour group is well prepared. Each tourist puts the earphones on. The GPS Location Panel on the controller UE e.g. is automatically on to facilitate identifying the respective locations of the UEs in the group. The tour guide selects display all options on the touch screen of the display screen on the controller UE and this results in the controller UE displaying all of the sub controller UEs and or members respective locations in a few clusters. The respective users of the respective sub controller UEs each select controller and their own members display option which displays the controller UE s cluster location and respective locations of all of their respective member UEs. As a result the tour guide can use the controller UE to perceive and identify the respective locations of the sub controller UEs and as desired the controller UE also can display the respective locations of the member UEs and the five family heads can use the respective sub controller UEs to perceive and identify the location of the controller UE and each family head can use his or her sub controller UE to perceive and identify the respective locations of the member UEs in that family head s sub group.

Since one particular family head and some of his family members have fallen behind the rest of the group that family head can select a slow down option on the sub controller UE which causes the controller UE to suspend the information presentation and notifies the tour guide to temporarily stop the tour and wait for the family head and members to catch up with the rest of the tour group.

When all people in the tour group are gathered around the Merrill Lynch Bull Sculpture location the tour guide starts to explain the history of the financial district. However there are at least 100 visitors near by with some taking pictures and some talking about what they have seen in various languages. The high noise level prevents a normal person from hearing what the tour guide person is saying. To overcome the noise the Joy Tour guide activates the broadcast intercom feature on the controller UE and speaks into the controller UE to broadcast the information to all of the UEs in the group. As a result all group members can hear the tour guide s fascinating stories clearly with the earphones via their respective UEs.

At one point during the tour one group member decides to ask a question of the tour guide and that group member selects e.g. touches the raise hand tab e.g. raise hand button on the touch screen display of his UE and also requests a private reply and a raise hand indicator and request for a private reply are transmitted from that UE to the controller UE. The controller UE receives those communications and the tour guide selects the uni cast option on the controller UE and provides a response to the question that is only communicated to the requesting UE.

The following is another non limiting example of various aspects of the disclosed subject matter in relation to a tour of an indoor location. The Joy tour company gets a small tour group of 8 college students from two west coast colleges college A and college B visiting a few museums in the Washington D.C. area. The students will need to turn in a final paper for their study trip. The Joy tour guide decides to lease a few tour guide ready wireless devices from the nearby communication device store instead of renting them from the museums to avoid using different UEs in each museum.

The Joy tour group reaches the museum. The museum staff assists them with provisioning and configuring their UEs into two sub groups. As part of the provisioning and configuration of the UEs all of the UEs are integrated into the museum s indoor communication infrastructure note if this group had rented UEs from the museum these rented UEs would already be partially configured . Four students from college A are in group A and the other 4 students from college B are in group B. The tour guide s UE e.g. is configured as a controller UE comprising LPPMC and the students UEs are all configured as member or slave UEs e.g. comprising respective LPCs e.g. .

All exhibit rooms are equipped with a plurality of sensors comprising two types of sensors. The first type of sensor not shown in can collect traffic flow information e.g. how many visitors are currently in this exhibit hall . The second type of sensor not shown in is a location sensor that can be integrated with a Femtocell or Wi Fi gateway e.g. to calculate a UE s precise indoor location at any given time.

In an aspect the controller UE e.g. will have the option to be able to display the respective locations of all of the slave UEs e.g. of the group A and group B when desired. Each of the slave UEs e.g. of group A will have the option to be able to display the respective locations of all of the other UEs in group A also group B will have the option to be able to display the respective locations of all of the UEs in group B and each of the slave UEs e.g. and sub controller UEs e.g. will have the option to be able to display the location of the controller UE e.g. when desired.

Since the two groups of students have some common topics and some different topics to cover they decide to have the tour guide lead them through the common topic exhibit halls first. The tour guide uses the controller UE e.g. and its LPPMC to communicate with the PMC to engage the interactive services of the PMC to plan the initial route through the museums to cover the common topics of groups A and B. The PMC can automatically and dynamically generate a tour itinerary e.g. tour itinerary recommendation for the common topics portion of the tour and can send the tour itinerary to the controller UE e.g. . When the controller UE e.g. receives the tour itinerary the tour guide can select e.g. touch or click on the push tab e.g. push button and in response the controller UE e.g. can push the tour itinerary and related instructions to all 8 of the slave UEs e.g. wherein each of the slave UEs e.g. can access and display the tour itinerary and associated instructions or a desired portion thereof on the display screen of the slave UE e.g. .

In an aspect the PMC associated with the museum executes its direction service and providing directions to the controller UE e.g. and the slave UEs e.g. to lead the tour guide group A and group B towards the desired destination via earphone using the broadcast service and or a dynamic map displayed on the respective UEs . When the destination is reached the tour guide decides to use the broadcast intercom on the controller UE e.g. to override the broadcast service from the PMC and pushes a control e.g. a button to select the broadcast intercom and the tour guide can speak into the controller UE e.g. and the controller UE can broadcast the tour guide s message to all of the slave UEs e.g. . As a result all of the students in group A and group B now can hear clearly the description and explanations of the tour guide from the tour guide s broadcast intercom service.

One of the students desires to ask the tour guide a question. That student can select the raise hand control on the slave UE e.g. and the UE can send a raise hand indicator comprising the UE identifier of the UE from which the indicator is sent to the controller UE e.g. and the controller UE can present the raise hand indicator to the tour guide to notify the tour guide that the UE user desires to ask a question. The tour guide can use the controller UE e.g. to respond to the slave UE e.g. and associated student to acknowledge the raise hand indicator and allow the student to ask the question. The student can select the broadcast intercom mode or the uni cast mode and can speak the question into the slave UE and the slave UE can either transmit the question to all of the UEs in the group and the controller UE when in broadcast mode or transmit the question only to the controller UE when in uni cast mode to facilitate allowing interactive participation in the tour experience by the students and the tour guide.

After the two groups complete part of the tour covering the common topics group A and group B decide to split up and tour separately for the remaining individual topics for 2 hours. The tour guide will meet the students near the entrance in two hours at the end of the tour.

Group A plans to visit as many exhibits as possible and therefore they start planning their tour route. The students of group A use one or more of their respective UEs e.g. to select their preferred topics e.g. preferences using voice recognition or touch screen and enter 2 hours as the time constraint and this information is sent from the UE s to the PMC . They also divide group A into 4 groups e.g. of one student each so they can use the divide and concur scheme to cover four times the exhibits in the 2 hours and this information is sent to the PMC as well. The PMC can analyze the information received from the UE s identify and use the current locations of the UEs congestion information relating to the tour exhibits and paths information relating to exhibits and programs and or other tour related information to identify 4 desirable e.g. optimal unique tour itineraries for the 4 respective groups. The PMC can transmit the 4 tour itineraries to the 4 UEs in the 4 groups. The PMC also can create a 4 discussion whiteboard that can allow the 4 UEs to be used by the respective students to communicate messages e.g. voice recognition textual digital images etc. to allow the students to collaborate with each other while taking their respective tours and share and discuss desired topics along the way.

A first student of the 4 students visits an exhibit on civil war history. The UE e.g. of the first student can provide turn by turn navigation to assist the first student in navigating the tour route. When the first student is observing a huge oil painting about the North and South fighting in Virginia the location of the first student s UE e.g. is detected by a sensor associated with the PMC and the location of the UE e.g. is identified by the PMC . In response to detecting the location of the UE e.g. being in proximity that oil painting the PMC can communicate historical information about this painting and stories about the fight are streamed to the first student s UE e.g. . This stream of information includes pictures text and voice narratives. The PMC also can store this information in a tour file associated with the first student. The first student also can interactively take notes or use the UE e.g. to search for more public information on the subject wherein the search can be communicated to the PMC . The PMC can search for more public information on the subject and can communicate information relating to the search results to the first student s UE e.g. . This search result information also can be stored in the first student s tour file. The search result information can be tagged to associate it with the notes made by the first student wherein the data tags can be stored in the first student s tour file as well to facilitate retrieval of the search result information by the first student when reviewing her notes at a later time.

The PMC can continue to monitor the first student s interactions with the tour. At a desired time after the PMC has learned and identified the first student s interactive behavior in relation to the tour exhibits the PMC automatically and dynamically identifies a number of recommendations based at least in part on the learned interactive behavior of the first student. The PMC automatically and dynamically generates the recommendations and sends them to the first student s UE e.g. . These recommendations can include for example books or articles in a CD format gift ideas etc. that may be of interest to the first student in view of the learned interactive behavior of the first student. The first student decides to purchase a few souvenirs via an interactive purchase feature of the PMC that can be accessed by the UE e.g. using the LPC .

One of the recommendations suggests that a rare presentation which lasts for 20 minutes will be given by a scholar in Exhibit B for the history topic that the students have to cover. The first student believes that this presentation will be good for the other 3 students to listen to also. The first student selects an option to display a geo map and her UE displays the geo map showing the respective locations of the other 3 UEs e.g. and selects the other 3 UEs e.g. icons representing the other 3 UEs that are displayed on the geo map to send a message and or alert to the other 3 students about the event. A second student is near Exhibit B and uses his UE to send a message which indicates that the second student will attend the event to the first student s UE. The third and fourth students decide not to attend the event and use their respective UEs to send a message declining to attend the event to the first student s UE. However the third student although declining to participate in the event decides to post a few comments to one of the team whiteboards relating to the event by speaking into his UE and using voice recognition having his comments added to that whiteboard. The first student sees the third student s comments on that whiteboard and asks the presenter at the event to comment on the third student s comments. The response of the presenter is heard by the third student over the streaming session on his UE and is also recorded on that whiteboard. The first student sends that whiteboard information to her notes on the event. The PMC saves all of that information relating to that event.

The PMC or controller UE e.g. can determine that the 2 hour time constraint is almost up and can transmit alerts to the UEs of Group A and Group B to indicate to the students of Group A and Group B that it is almost time to leave wherein the respective UEs associated with Group A and Group B can present the alerts to the respective students. The PMC or controller UE e.g. also can provide respective directions to each of the UEs associated with Group A and Group B based at least in part on the respective locations of those UEs to facilitate leading the students to the entrance of the museum. The first student proceeds to pay her bill and picks up her notes in CD format and other tour related information that was saved in her tour file as well as purchasing some gift items and then proceeds to the entrance in accordance with the directions displayed on her UE.

While the students of Group A are waiting at the entrance it is now 10 minutes past the 2 hour duration of the individual portion of the tour and the Group B students still have not arrived at the entrance. The tour guide can use the controller UE e.g. to identify the respective locations of the respective UEs e.g. of Group B student can select the respective UEs of Group B on the controller UE e.g. and can send an alert message to the UEs of Group B wherein the UEs of Group B can present the alert message to the respective UE users to alert the students of Group B that they are to proceed to the entrance of the museum because the tour time deadline has been reached. When all of the students are at the entrance the museum staff can assist the students in deactivating their UEs from the integrated services of the PMC .

The subject specification can allow wireless communication carriers to offer new and differentiated group communication service for specific vertical market segments which can provide enhanced service opportunities to the wireless communication carriers increase revenue generation and improve customer satisfaction. The subject specification also can offers UE vendors the opportunity to enhance existing UE design and or introduce a set of improved UEs that can be targeted for special vertical market segment which can thereby provide product flexibility that can meet different customer needs or desires. The subject specification can allow vendors of existing UEs to take part in software related business relating to aspects of the subject specification which can thereby provide new revenue opportunities to those vendors.

The subject specification also can offer efficiency to the tourist industry and bring the touring services to an improved level of experience which can result in productivity improvement and improved customer satisfaction. The subject specification can provide new revenue streams to the indoor locations such as museums landmark buildings etc. via UE rentals and interactive services thereby providing improved differentiated services and increased revenue generation. The subject specification can provide individual tourists with an improved tour experience and can allow them to record what they see or comment on with immediate and interactive collaborated information. The subject specification can enrich the usage of smart devices as for example a user can configure his UE e.g. smart phone to become a smart touring device which can enhance customer experiences increase reusability of smart telecommunication devices and increase revenue generation to service providers.

The subject specification by enabling UEs to be grouped into larger groupings e.g. 10 25 50 or more UEs and associated users in a tour group than the typical family plans or bundles can result in improved and increased opportunities for service provides to create other group features based on the features of the subject specification. For instance the subject specification can be employed in social networking wherein a social networking system can be utilized in conjunction with the UE grouping features as disclosed herein of the subject specification. Also the subject specification can provide new revenue sources for service providers as service providers and or other entities e.g. businesses that have information goods or services that are related to the information presentation businesses that are along or in proximity to given points of the tour route etc. can realize increased revenue from online advertising both from online advertisements relating to offering the interactive information presentation services e.g. interactive tour and from the online advertisements e.g. targeted or general advertisements that can be presented to the UE users prior to during or after participating in the interactive information presentation experience e.g. online advertising can be pushed or otherwise presented to a UE prior to the information presentation so that the UE user can be made aware of information related to the information presentation that the UE user can access or purchase online or at a physical place of business . For instance educators at almost all levels e.g. grade school through college can find the interactive information presentation services desirable e.g. for field trips and online advertising can be focused on educators students or others persons or groups that are expected to have an interest in such services.

The system also can contain a communication network COMM. NW that can facilitate wired and wireless communication between communication devices e.g. UE UE UE associated with the communication network . In an aspect the communication network can comprise a core network CN e.g. mobile core network that can be employed to facilitate communication by UEs associated e.g. wirelessly connected with the core network and other communication devices associated with the communication network . The core network can be associated with APs such as AP and AP e.g. femto AP to facilitate wireless communication of voice and data associated with communication devices such as UE UE and or UE in the communication network . The core network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between UEs and or other communication devices e.g. phone computer email server multimedia server audio server video server news server financial or stock information server other servers other communication devices associated with an IP based network IP BASED NW e.g. Internet intranet etc. associated with the communication network . The core network also can allocate resources to the UEs e.g. in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce Quality of Service QoS for the UEs provide applications or services in the network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the wireless communication network. The core network further can include desired components such as routers nodes e.g. SGSN GGSN etc. switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices associated with the communication network .

In accordance with various aspects the core network can facilitate the providing a variety of services in addition to voice and data services wherein the services can comprise for example group messaging services GRP MSG broadcast intercom services BIS location clustering services LCS and alert services AS . The group messaging services can that allow the UEs e.g. UE UE and or UE in a group e.g. tour group to send messages e.g. voice data to other members of the group wherein as desired all of the members can see all or a desired portion of messages e.g. public group messages private group messages between UEs of group members. The broadcast intercom services can allow UE users in a group or sub group of the group to use their UE to transmit a broadcast communication simultaneously to multiple other UEs in the group or sub group. The location clustering services can be employed by UEs to facilitate clustering of UEs in a group into desired sub groups and identifying respective locations of respective UEs in a particular cluster the location of a sub controller UE e.g. UE of a parent of a family of a particular cluster e.g. family cluster or the location of a controller UE e.g. tour guide s UE . The alert services that can provide desired alerts e.g. wake up alerts or calls reminder alerts alerts alerts from other UEs etc. to the UEs associated with the communication network .

The communication network also can include the IP based network that can be associated with the core network and can facilitate communications by communication devices associated with the communication network at least in part via communication of data packets e.g. IP based data packets between communication devices that are associated with the communication network using a wired or wireless communication connection in accordance with specified IP protocols.

In an aspect a wired communication connection between a communication device e.g. UE and the IP based network can be a communication connection that can communicate voice or data and or can be a DSL type or broadband connection facilitated via an Ethernet connection and or a wireless communication connection can be facilitated via a connection of the UE to an AP e.g. . The UE e.g. can transmit messages via a wired or wireless connection through the IP based network the core network or other communication networks to other UEs.

The system also can contain a locator component that can employ desired components e.g. satellites processors etc. to facilitate detecting and identifying respective locations of respective UEs. For instance the locator component can comprise a global positioning system GPS to facilitate identifying a location of a UE.

The system can further include an indoor computing system ICS which can be hosted or un hosted and can comprise a desired number of servers such as for example one or more configuration servers CF one or more application servers APS one or more communication servers CM one or more location mapping servers LM one or more portal servers PS and one or more add on download servers AD etc. to facilitate desirably providing interactive information presentations to UEs that are used in relation to information presentations at the indoor location. A configuration server can be employed to facilitate configuring UEs e.g. UE UE UE to operate interactively with other communication devices e.g. UEs servers etc. to facilitate providing an enhanced and interactive information presentations to UE users. In another aspect a configuration server can operate in conjunction with an application server to download one or more applications to a UE that can be used to configure the UE as a controller UE comprising a LPPMC a sub controller UE comprising a LSPMC or a member UE comprising an LPC. The application server also can maintain provide or execute other applications such as applications relating to programs of exhibits that are part of information presentations. In still another aspect a communication server can be utilized to facilitate voice and data communications between communication devices e.g. UEs communication devices associated with the PMC etc. associated with the indoor computing system or communication network . A location mapping server can be associated with the locator component the APs e.g. AP AP AP and or one or more sensors associated with the indoor location wherein the location mapping server can detect identify or track respective locations of respective UEs associated with the indoor computing system . A portal server can facilitate providing UEs access to portal services associated with e.g. provided by or on behalf of the indoor computing system and entity operating or managing the indoor location. An add on download server that can provide desired add on services to UEs associated with e.g. integrated with or connected to the PMC associated with the indoor location.

As disclosed the system comprises a desired number of sensors . The sensors can comprise different types of sensors including for example a location sensor that can facilitate identifying a location of a UE such as a UE within a predefined distance of the location sensor and or a traffic sensor that can facilitate tracking the amount of traffic e.g. people UEs etc. associated with a particular physical area e.g. room portion of a room etc. . In an aspect a location sensor can be associated with e.g. connected to or integrated with an exhibit or an AP such as AP or AP . In another aspect a traffic sensor can facilitate identifying the number of people or UEs that are in a particular area of the indoor location to facilitate determining tour itineraries for respective tourists scheduling of programs or services for tourists determining the popularity of a particular exhibit or program etc.

In still another aspect the system can comprise a desired number of services such as for example broadcast intercom services BIS collaborative services CL location clustering services LCS interactive services IS portal services PS tour guide services TG and or value added services VA . Similar to the broadcast intercom services e.g. disclosed herein the broadcast intercom services can allow UE users in a group or sub group of the group to use their UE to transmit a broadcast communication simultaneously to multiple other UEs in the group or sub group. The collaborative services can be employed to facilitate enabling UE users to use their UEs to communicate and collaborate with each other as desired for example to exchange information e.g. notes comments images audio etc. regarding subjects related to information presentations exhibits or programs. The collaborative services also can allow a UE user to use the UE e.g. to determine whether any one else in other groups has been making comments or providing other information regarding a certain topic of interest to the UE user wherein such comments or information can be posted on a whiteboard or other data location available to be accessed by the UE. Similar to the location clustering services disclosed herein the location clustering services can be employed by UEs to facilitate clustering of UEs in a group into desired sub groups and identifying respective locations of respective UEs in a particular cluster the location of a sub controller UE of a particular cluster or the location of a controller UE. The interactive services can enable a UE user taking part in an information presentation to use a UE to interact with the tour guide other tour group members exhibits lecturers on the tour tour programs etc.

The portal services can include for example services relating to registering for a tour sale and purchase of products or tour tickets from a business entity associated with an information presentation providing instructions relating to an information presentation providing information relating to programs lectures exhibits etc. configuring of UEs to be used for interactive participation in an information presentation etc. The tour guide services can enable a tour guide to provide an enhanced interactive tour experience. The tour guide services can allow a controller UE used by the tour guide to identify respective locations of UEs and associated tour group members to facilitate locating tour group members or keeping the tour group together cluster UEs into desired clusters push information e.g. tour instructions information regarding exhibits or programs recommendations etc. to UEs of group members identify when a tour member desires the tour guide to slow down so that the tour member can catch up to the group e.g. when a UE user uses the UE to select the slow down option identify when a tour member desires to ask a question e.g. when a UE user uses the UE to select the raise hand option etc. The value added services can include for example recording and storing information comments notes pictures video etc. relating to a tour and allowing a tour member to purchase a copy of the information comments notes pictures video etc. in a desired format e.g. DVD CD downloadable file etc. dynamic pop up recommendations sent to the UE of a tour member wherein the recommendations can be for example gift ideas lectures programs or presentations that may be of interest to the tour member and or advertisements coupons or specials for a restaurant gift shop or other business entity electronic gaming or activity service that can provide electronic games or activities e.g. activities that can be performed using a UE music service that can provide music to a UE video service that can provide videos to a UE information provider service s that can provide desired information to a UE e.g. an information provider service can be a service that can provide information relating to the information presentation news provider service entertainment provider service etc. etc. wherein a UE user can enjoy any such value added services at desired times e.g. during idle time on a tour such as when the tour group is on a tour bus going from one point of interest to another point of interest . With regard to value added services for example a service provider e.g. communication service providers can work with or team up with entities e.g. museums tour guide businesses convention related businesses etc. to provide at least a portion of the value added services . This can result in increased revenue for both the service provider and the entities e.g. museum related business aquarium related business convention center related business tour guide business gift shop or other store associated with or in proximity to a museum an aquarium a convention center etc. .

With regard to the outdoor location a service provider support system management platform SPSSMP can be employed to facilitate enabling UEs to be used to provide an enhanced interactive information presentation experience. The SPSSMP can comprise one or more one or more configuration servers CF one or more application servers APS one or more location mapping servers LM one or more policy servers PL and one or more billing servers BL etc. to facilitate desirably providing interactive information presentations to UEs that are used in relation to information presentations at the indoor location. A configuration server can be employed to facilitate configuring UEs e.g. UE UE UE to operate interactively with other communication devices e.g. UEs servers etc. to facilitate providing an enhanced and interactive information presentations to UE users. In another aspect a configuration server can operate in conjunction with an application server to download one or more applications to a UE that can be used to configure the UE as a controller UE comprising a LPPMC a sub controller UE comprising a LSPMC or a member UE comprising an LPC. The application server also can maintain provide or execute other applications such as applications relating to programs of exhibits that are part of information presentations. In another aspect a location mapping server can be associated with the locator component and or the APs e.g. AP AP AP wherein the location mapping server can be used to detect identify or track respective locations of respective UEs associated with the SPSSMP . A policy server can be employed to identify and enforce desired policies including policies relating to providing enhanced interactive information presentations. A billing server can track use or consumption of billable items or services by UE users for example in relation to an information presentation and can generate respective billings for respective UE users for the use or consumption of billable items or services.

It is to be appreciated and understood that desired portions of the system can be part of or associated with a PMC. For instance the PMC can comprise or be associated with for example the SPSSMP indoor computing system APs e.g. AP AP sensors and or variety of services disclosed herein.

Referring to depicted is a block diagram of an example system that can facilitate interactive communication between UEs to enhance communications relating to presentations e.g. tour presentations convention presentations etc. in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. In accordance with various aspects the system can comprise a desired number of UEs such as UE UE UE UE UE UE and UE which can be respectively associated with UE users that are members of a tour group. The UE can be configured to be a controller UE for use by for example a tour guide wherein the UE can comprise a LPPMC that can function as disclosed herein. UE and UE each can be sub controller UEs for use by for example a first parent of a first family and a second parent of a second family wherein the UEs and can respectively comprise LSPMC and LSPMC that can function as disclosed herein. UE UE UE and UE can be configured to be member or slave UEs for use by for example the respective children of the first family and the second family wherein the respective UEs and can respectively contain LPC LPC LPC and LPC which can function as disclosed herein. UE and UE can be slave UEs to UE and these UEs and associated family members of the first family can be a first sub group and UE and UE can be slave UEs to UE and these UEs and associated family members of the second family can be a second sub group wherein all of these UEs can be controlled at least in part by the controller UE .

The UEs through can be respectively connected to a communication network e.g. via one or more APs which are not shown in for reasons of brevity and clarity that can function as disclosed herein to facilitate communications between UEs and other UEs or other communication devices associated with the communication network . The system also can include a PMC that can function as disclosed herein to facilitate providing desirably enhanced interactive information presentations to the UE users that are participating in the interactive information presentations.

In accordance with various aspects the UE users can use their respective UEs to interact with each other for example in relation to the information presentation. In the dotted lines between the various UEs depict communication interactions between the UEs wherein the communication paths between the UEs can be via the communication network . For instance the controller UE can be used to push or present information e.g. presentation information tour instructions or other information from the PMC to the sub controller UEs and or and the slave UEs and or . The sub controller UE can communicate with the slave UEs and in the first sub group and can control at least in part communications by the slave UEs and . Similarly the sub controller UE can communicate with the slave UEs and in the second sub group and can control at least in part communications by the slave UEs and . The UEs and can communicate e.g. transmit voice or data communications with the controller UE although the UE can control at least in part reception of communications from UEs through . For instance when desired the controller UE can control communications from the UEs e.g. UE UE in the group by allowing those UEs to send a raise hand indicator a slow down indicator or other type of desired communication to the controller UE but not allowing other types of communications which are not desired by the tour guide to be received by the controller UE .

Also the sub controller UEs and can respectively control at least in part communications from their respective slave UEs e.g. UE and of the first sub group and UEs and of the second sub group to the controller UE e.g. to facilitate controlling how often a child interrupts the tour guide . If a user of a slave UE such as UE of the first sub group desires to communicate with another user of a slave UE such UE in the second sub group the respective sub controllers and can control inter group communications by those slave UEs to allow or not allow such inter group communications as desired by the respective users of the sub controllers and e.g. inter group communications between slave UEs of different groups or sub groups can be permission based and controlled by the respective sub controllers associated with the slave UEs .

Referring to depicted is a block diagram of an example system that can employ desired types of sensors to facilitate enhancing information presentations e.g. tour presentations convention presentations etc. to UE users in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. In accordance with various aspects a UE can enter a desired physical area e.g. a room s associated with an entity such as a museum an aquarium or other entity that can have items on display information presentations or other desired points of interest. The system also can include a PMC that can facilitate providing UE users with an enhanced interactive information presentation as disclosed herein.

In an aspect the system can include a sensor e.g. communication device sensor and or movement sensor that can be located at a desired position near or within the physical area wherein the sensor can facilitate detecting and tracking UEs such as UE and or associated users as they enter or leave the physical area . The sensor can be associated with the PMC wherein the PMC can receive information relating to detection of UEs and or associated users and can track and maintain current counts of the number of UEs e.g. UEs integrated with the PMC and or UE users to facilitate dynamically determining customized tour itineraries and tour routes allocating system resources or tracking popularity of respective exhibits programs lectures etc. As the UE and associated user enter the physical area the sensor can sense or detect the UE and or the associated user and can communicate information regarding the detected UE and or the associated user to the PMC which can utilize that information to identify the current amount of traffic flow in that physical area .

The physical area can include a desired number of exhibits such as Exhibit A for example. The system can comprise a sensor that can be associated with and or integrated with the Exhibit A wherein the sensor can sense or detect when a UE such as UE and associated user are in proximity to e.g. within a predefined distance away from the Exhibit A . The UE user and associated UE can proceed to Exhibit A and when they are in proximity to the sensor the sensor can detect the UE and or user and can communicate information indicating detection of the UE and or user to the PMC . In response the PMC can automatically transmit e.g. stream an information presentation relating to Exhibit A to the UE or can automatically transmit a notification regarding that information presentation to the UE to notify the user of the information presentation and ask whether the UE user desires to view and or listen to the information presentation wherein the user can use the UE to communicate a message to the PMC indicating that the user desires or does not desire to view or listen to the information presentation. In another aspect the sensor also can be used to facilitate identifying location of UEs such as UE with a desired fine level of granularity wherein information relating to the detection or location of UEs can be sent from the sensor to the PMC for processing to identify respective locations of UEs. In an alternative embodiment the Exhibit A can have an information presentation locally stored with the Exhibit A and the information presentation or notification of the information presentation can be automatically sent to the UE when the sensor detects the UE in proximity to Exhibit A .

In still another aspect the system can include a desired number of APs such as AP e.g. femto AP pico AP Wi Fi AP that can be employed to facilitate wireless communication by UEs connected thereto. In yet another aspect the AP can have integrated therein or associated therewith a sensor that can be used to facilitate identifying location of UEs such as UE with a desired fine level of granularity wherein information relating to the detection or location of UEs can be sent from the sensor to the PMC for processing to identify respective locations of UEs. When the UE and associated user proceed through the physical area the sensor can detect the UE when UE is located within a predefined distance of the sensor . The sensor can transmit detection or location information relating to UE to the PMC for further processing to facilitate identifying the location of the UE . In another aspect as more than one sensor e.g. can or may sense the UE at a given time the PMC can evaluate respective detection or location information from the sensors that sensed the UE at that given time to facilitate identifying location of the UE e.g. a stronger detection signal of a first sensor relative to that of a second sensor can indicate that the UE is closer to the first sensor .

Turning to illustrated is a block diagram of an example system that can enhance communications relating to information presentations e.g. tour presentations convention presentations etc. in accordance with an embodiment. The system can include a desired number of UEs such as UE UE and UE that can be utilized to communicate with communication devices associated with the communication network via AP . In another aspect UE can be configured to be a controller UE and can comprise a LPPMC that can be employed to enable the UE to perform the desired functions of the controller UE as disclosed herein. In still another aspect the UE can be configured to be a sub controller UE and can contain a LSPMC that can be employed to enable the UE to perform the desired functions of a sub controller UE as disclosed herein. In yet another aspect the UE can be configured to be a slave UE and can comprise a LPC that can be employed to enable the UE to perform the desired functions of the slave UE as disclosed herein.

In accordance with an embodiment the UE also can comprise a PMC that can include all or a desired portion of the functions disclosed herein with regard to a PMC to facilitate providing enhanced communications in relation to information presentations. Employing the PMC within the controller UE can facilitate enabling a tour guide using the PMC to present a desired information presentation s to desired UEs such as UE and UE in the tour group customize information presentations using the UE provision UEs such as UE and UE to integrate them with the PMC download desired applications e.g. sub controller application slave application to facilitate configuring UEs to operate interactively with the controller UE to provide enhanced communications with regard to information presentations etc.

In an embodiment as desired the system can include a remote or an external PMC not shown in e.g. as shown in that can comprise all or a desired portion of the functions disclosed herein with regard to a PMC and can operate in conjunction with the PMC to facilitate presentation of information presentations to the UEs e.g. UE UE .

In another aspect the PMC can include a registration component that can be used to register a UE with the PMC and or provision the UE. The registration component can be employed to obtain information e.g. name address UE identifier s e.g. phone number s billing information etc. regarding the UE user and associated UE that are registering with the PMC and obtain and or provide information regarding the registration of the persons with the service entity. The information relating to the registration of the UE and UE user can be stored in a data store e.g. user file associated with the PMC .

In an aspect the PMC also can include an application component that can comprise one or more applications e.g. data processing applications communications applications registration applications interactive services applications security applications etc. that can be employed to facilitate operation of the PMC . The application component also can include one or more applications such as a controller UE configuration application sub controller UE configuration application and or slave UE configuration application that can be provided e.g. downloaded to respective UEs to facilitate configuring the UEs to operate as a controller UE sub controller UE or slave UE such as disclosed herein.

In another aspect the PMC can comprise a user preferences component that can provide a UE and associated UE user with available user preferences e.g. via one or more menus of available user preferences relating to interactive services information presentation options interactive services options etc. or default user preferences to facilitate enabling the UE user to select e.g. using the UE desired user preferences in relation to the information presentation interactive services or other services that are available for use by the UE and associated UE user. The user preferences component can facilitate storing the respective set of user preferences of a respective UE user in a respective user file of the UE user.

In another aspect the PMC can contain a portal component that can employ one or more portal servers to facilitate maintaining and providing desired portal services e.g. ticket reservation services schedule services relating to exhibits programs lectures etc. gift shop information etc. associated with the entity e.g. museum operator convention center operator to communication devices e.g. UEs associated with the PMC .

In still another aspect the PMC can include an interactive services component that can provide or make available desired interactive services relating to information presentations to UEs associated with the PMC . The interactive services can include for example whiteboard services communication control services e.g. slow down option raise hand option services that can generate customized information presentations services that can generate customized tour itineraries broadcast intercom services targeted advertisement or recommendation services language translation services clustering services UE locator services alert presentation services add on services etc.

The PMC can include a whiteboard component that can operate in conjunction with the interactive services component to provide whiteboards to respective groups of users wherein the whiteboards can be used for posting comments or other information to be viewed or perceived by other users in the group associated with a particular whiteboard or other authorized users. The PMC also can contain a communication control component that can operate in conjunction with the interactive services component to facilitate controlling communications in relation to an information presentation. For instance the communication control component can make communication options such as a slow down option and raise hand option available to UE users via their UEs to facilitate controlling communications wherein the slow down option can be selected by a UE user using a UE to communicate a slow down indicator to the controller UE of the group to notify the leader e.g. tour guide of the group that the UE user desires the leader to slow down the tour and or associated information presentation because the UE user has fallen behind the group or for another desired reason and the raise hand option can be selected by the UE user using the UE to communication a raise hand indicator to the controller UE to notify the group leader that the UE user has a question or comment that the UE user desires to make to the group or the group leader.

In another aspect the PMC can contain a customizer component that can operate in conjunction with the interactive services component to generate customized tour itineraries or routes and customized information presentations for UE users based at least in part on user preferences UE user time constraints the respective status e.g. current or future status of respective exhibits programs lectures etc. location of the UE user or other desired factors. The PMC also can employ a recommendation component that can generate and provide one or more recommendations relating to the information presentation or UE user to the UE of the UE user wherein the recommendations can be customized tour itineraries or routes customized information presentations location based recommendations gift ideas advertisements e.g. general advertisements targeted advertisements etc. The PMC can further contain an advertisement platform that can identify one or more advertisements to provide to one or more UEs wherein the advertisement can be a general advertisement or a targeted advertisement which can be identified based at least in part on current or historical information relating to the UE user e.g. interactions or other observed activity of the UE or UE user while registered with the PMC current location of the UE user or other desired factors.

In still another aspect the PMC can comprise a translator component that can facilitate generating and providing information e.g. portions of an information presentation portal services advertisements etc. that has been pre translated to one or more desired languages for presentation e.g. textual presentation audio presentation to the UEs of UE users and performing and providing real time or near real time language translation of information e.g. portions of an information presentation comments or other information from a group leader or group member to UEs of UE users. The translator component can identify the language used in a communication and identify the desired language for a particular UE user and if the language of the communication is different from the desired language the translator component can translate the communication to the desired language and present the translated communication to the UE of the UE user.

In yet another aspect the PMC can employ a cluster component that can facilitate enabling UE users to use UEs to create manage and use clusters of group members. Information relating to the clusters can be stored in the user file of a UE user and if changes to a cluster are made the cluster component can update the cluster information in the user file. The cluster component also can utilize location information identifying respective locations of UEs wherein the location information can be provided by a locator component that can receive information from a GPS location sensors or location services to facilitate identifying the location of a UE at a given time.

In an aspect the PMC can contain an alert component that can generate and present one or more types of alerts e.g. visual alert indicator audio alert indicator vibrational alert indicator to a UE in accordance with user preferences. The PMC also can include a status component that can monitor and identify a current or future e.g. expected future status of exhibits programs lectures facility rooms etc. associated with a facility operated by an entity. The status component can obtain information from sensors schedule information ticket sales information user provided information or other information to facilitate identifying a status of an exhibit a program a lecture a facility room etc.

The PMC can further employ a policy component that can utilize one or more policy servers to facilitate maintaining updating and enforcing desired policies relating to the operations of the PMC and communication devices associated with the PMC . In another aspect the PMC can comprise a recorder component that can record all or a desired portion of communications relating to an information presentation e.g. portions of the information presentation comments made by UE users in the group pictures video whiteboard postings etc. to facilitate providing the recorded communications to a UE user when desired. The PMC also can include an information provider component that can generate and provide a copy of all or a desired portion of the recorded communications relating to a particular information presentation in a desired format e.g. DVD CD downloadable file to a UE user e.g. for a specified cost .

In still another aspect the PMC can employ a billing component that can comprise one or more billing servers that can track update and generate billings for products and services that are used purchased or received by persons such as UE users in relation to an information presentation or other products or services provided by the entity. The billing component can generate and provide a billing in a desired form e.g. paper or electronic document to the purchaser.

In yet another aspect the PMC can contain an aggregator component that can aggregate information e.g. scheduling information UE location information comments by group members language to be translated clustering information user preferences etc. received by the PMC and also can classify or categorize the information for further processing or evaluation. The PMC also can utilize an evaluator component that can analyze and evaluate information for example to facilitate identifying the location of a UE at a given time generating a customized information presentation tour itinerary or tour route identifying a recommendation e.g. advertisement performing language translation etc.

The PMC also can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component registration component application component user preferences component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the PMC . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to managing information presentations managing communications between communication devices associated with the PMC information relating to other operations of the PMC and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the PMC as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the PMC and other components e.g. UEs other communication devices associated with the communication network etc. associated with the PMC .

The PMC also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to managing information presentations managing communications between communication devices associated with the PMC information relating to other operations of the PMC etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the PMC . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the PMC e.g. communicator component registration component application component user preferences component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the PMC .

The LPPMC also can comprise an indicator component that can receive one or more different types of indicators from other UEs such as other UEs in the group. The indicators can comprise for example a slow down indicator that indicates that a group member desires the group leader to slow down the presentation or a raise hand indicator that can indicate that a UE user desires to make a comment to or ask a question of the group leader or others in the group.

In another aspect the LPPMC can include a presentation control component that can be employed to control the presentation of information such as information being presented by the PMC to the controller UE and other UEs in the group. For instance the presentation control component can suspend or override presentation of an information presentation to UEs in the group for a desired period of time e.g. in response to a received slow down indicator or a raise hand indicator .

In still another aspect the LPPMC can comprise a user preferences component that can be employed to provide available user preferences to the UE user via the UE and receive selections of desired user preferences from the UE user via the UE to facilitate configuring the UE in accordance with the desired user preferences and or providing desired user preferences to the PMC to facilitate providing the UE user with information in relation to the information presentation in accordance with the desired user preferences. The available user preferences can be displayed or presented to the UE user via one or more menus for example.

The LPPMC can include a selector component that can enable the UE user to select desired user preferences parameters controls etc. in response to received input information e.g. from the UE user to facilitate desired operation of the UE and a desirable interactive experience in relation to an information presentation. In another aspect the LPPMC can contain a translator component that can facilitate generating and providing information e.g. portions of an information presentation portal services advertisements etc. that has been pre translated to one or more desired languages for presentation e.g. textual presentation audio presentation to the UEs of UE users and performing and providing real time or near real time language translation of information e.g. portions of an information presentation comments or other information from a group leader or group member to UEs of UE users. In one aspect the translator component can identify the language used in a communication and identify the desired language for a particular UE user and if the language of the communication is different from the desired language the translator component can translate the communication to the desired language and present the translated communication to the UE of the UE user. Alternatively or additionally the translator component can operate in conjunction with the PMC to facilitate language translation functions wherein the PMC can perform all or a desired portion of the desired language translations.

In an aspect the LPPMC can include a cluster component that can facilitate creation modification and accessing of one or more clusters wherein a cluster can comprise an entire group of UEs and associated UE users or a desired portion of UEs of a group e.g. first cluster comprising a first sub controller UE and member UEs of a first sub group a second cluster comprising a second sub controller UE and member UEs of a second sub group etc. . The cluster component can be used for example in conjunction with the selector component to select a desired cluster to display the respective locations of respective UEs in the cluster on the display screen of the UE e.g. on a map in relation to location of the controller UE .

In still another aspect the LPPMC can comprise a whiteboard component that can enable the UE user to post comments or other information on the whiteboard to be viewed or perceived by other users in the group associated with that whiteboard or other authorized users. In yet another aspect the LPPMC can include a search component that can be employed to enable the UE user to search for desired information. For example the UE user can desire to find information on the whiteboard that was posted by the UE user and another UE user in the group and the search component can be employed to search for information that was posted on the whiteboard by the UE user and the other UE user. In another aspect the LPPMC can contain a filter component which can operate in conjunction with the search component and can filter information in accordance with one or more desired filters e.g. based at least in part on search criteria to facilitate providing a desired subset of information to the UE user. For example the filter component can filter information posted on the whiteboard to present only information posted by the UE user and the other UE user.

In another aspect the LPPMC can include a tag component that can be used to tag information e.g. on a whiteboard and or to associate tagged information with other tagged information to facilitate identification and or retrieval of tagged information. The search component and or filter component can be employed to facilitate identifying retrieving and or presenting the tagged information on the UE to the UE user.

The LPPMC also can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communication control component indicator component presentation control component user preferences component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the LPPMC . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to managing information presentations managing communications between communication devices associated with the LPPMC information relating to other operations of the LPPMC and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the LPPMC as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the LPPMC and other components e.g. UEs other communication devices associated with the communication network etc. associated with the LPPMC .

The LPPMC also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to managing information presentations managing communications between communication devices associated with the LPPMC information relating to other operations of the LPPMC etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the LPPMC . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the LPPMC e.g. communication control component indicator component presentation control component user preferences component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the LPPMC .

In another aspect the LSPMC also can include a slow down component that can allow the UE user of the sub controller UE to select a slow down option e.g. using the selector component and in response the slow down component can generate a slow down indicator that can be transmitted to the controller UE and or PMC to facilitate slowing down or temporarily suspending the information presentation wherein the controller UE and associated user and or the PMC can take a desired action in response to the received slow down indicator e.g. the tour guide using the controller UE can slow down or stop the rest of the group and or can slow down or temporarily suspend the information presentation to allow the UE user that sent the slow down indicator to catch up and join the rest of the group with regard to an individual tour for example the PMC can temporarily suspend the information presentation until the UE user sends a resume or start indicator e.g. using the communication control component to the PMC wherein the UE user may desire to temporarily suspend an information presentation due to receiving a phone call or needing a break from the presentation for another desired reason .

In still another aspect the LSPMC can contain a raise hand component that can allow the UE user of the sub controller UE to select a raise hand option e.g. using the selector component for example when the UE user has a question or comment and in response the raise hand component can generate a raise hand indicator that can be transmitted to the controller UE and or PMC to facilitate notifying the controller UE and associated user e.g. tour guide and or PMC and a representative e.g. a customer support specialist associated with the entity that the UE user has a question or comment. In response the user of the controller UE or a representative associated with the PMC using the controller UE or PMC can send an indicator to the UE of the UE user to notify the UE user that the UE is enabled to communicate e.g. via broadcast intercom communication or uni cast communication with the controller UE PMC or other UEs associated with the group and the UE user can use the sub controller UE to send the desired communication e.g. question comment etc. .

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter a design platform not shown for example comprising an application programming interface s API not shown can be employed to enable application developers to develop additional add on features or services for each of the vertical market offerings. For instance a third party developer can utilize an API to interact with one or more of the disclosed systems to create additional applications or services e.g. relating to interactive information presentations that can be utilized in conjunction with one or more of the disclosed systems which can thereby further enhance usability and desirability of the systems disclosed herein.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosed subject matter one or more components e.g. UE PMC LPPMC LSPMC LPC etc. in the communication network environment can utilize artificial intelligence AI techniques or methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based at least in part on a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios an automated response to perform in response to an inference s a current or future state of conditions relating to an exhibit program lecture area e.g. room of a facility etc. associated with an information presentation a language translation of a word or phrase a recognition of a spoken word or phrase during a voice to text translation of the word or phrase identifying a current location or an expected future location of a UE a recommendation or a targeted advertisement that is or may be of interest to a UE user a customized tour itinerary a customized tour route etc. Artificial intelligence techniques typically can apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning to historic and or current data associated with the systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate rendering an inference s related to the systems and methods disclosed herein.

In particular the one or more components in the communication network environment can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. The foregoing techniques or methods can be applied to analysis of the historic and or current data associated with systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate making inferences or determinations related to systems and methods disclosed herein.

In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the subject specification can be utilized in wireless wired and converged e.g. wireless and wired communication networks. For example the disclosed subject matter can be employed in wireless networks with such networks including for example 2G type networks 3G type networks 4G type networks LTE Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA type systems Wideband CDMA WCDMA type systems etc.

In another aspect the UE can include a multimode operation chipset s that can allow the UE to operate in multiple communication modes in accordance with disparate technical specification for wireless technologies. In an aspect multimode operation chipset s can utilize communication platform in accordance with a specific mode of operation e.g. voice GPS etc. . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm.

In still another aspect the UE can comprise a presentation control component PCC e.g. LPPMC LSPMC LPC that can facilitate controlling presentation of information relating to an information presentation to the UE user and communications with other communication devices as more fully described herein. In accordance with various embodiments the PCC can facilitate using the UE as a controller UE e.g. master UE a sub controller UE e.g. sub master UE or a member UE e.g. slave UE as more fully described herein.

The UE can contain an interface component that can comprise one or more interfaces e.g. display screens touch screens buttons controls switches adapters connectors speakers etc. that can be utilized to facilitate presentation of information to a UE user or receiving data input from a UE user. In an aspect the interface component can present information presentations voice communications data communications e.g. messages pictures video audio etc. indicators e.g. slow down indicator raise hand indicator etc. notifications etc. For example the interface component can operate in conjunction with the PCC to facilitate presentation of buttons controls or menus to facilitate selecting or setting desired user preferences e.g. user preference parameters communication options or controls search criteria filters etc. In an aspect the interface component can receive input via manipulation of buttons controls or menus by the UE user to facilitate selecting or setting desired user preferences e.g. user preference parameters communication options or controls search criteria filters etc. and the UE can be configured and or can operate in accordance with the such received input and or information relating to such received input can be communicated to the PCC or other desired component in the UE or to other communication devices e.g. another UE PMC associated with the communication network.

In still another aspect the UE also can include a processor s that can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within the UE in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For example the processor s can facilitate enabling the UE to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. As another example the processor s can facilitate enabling the UE to process data relating to messaging voice calls or other services e.g. Internet services or access interactive services relating to an information presentation etc. . In accordance with other examples the processor s can facilitate using the UE as a controller UE sub controller UE or member UE.

The UE also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes neighbor cell list one or more lists e.g. whitelist etc. information relating to configuring the UE as a controller UE sub controller UE or member UE information relating to interactive services relating to an information presentation UE identifier voice calls messaging or other services associated with the UE network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms and so on. In an aspect the processor s can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. neighbor cell list information relating to messaging voice calls or other services e.g. interactive services frequency offsets desired algorithms security code UE identifier etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform multimode operation chipset s PCC interface component and or substantially any other operational aspects of the UE .

In an embodiment a pair of earphones optionally can be provided for use with the UE . The earphones can be connected to the UE via a wired communication connection wherein the cord of the earphones can be connected or plugged into a communication port not shown on the UE or a wireless communication connection e.g. Bluetooth connection . The earphones can be utilized by the UE user to allow the user to hear a tour guide or other audio information being provided to the UE as part of the information presentation while also being able to view the display screen on the UE so that the user can view other information e.g. video pictures textual information being provided to the UE user as part of the information presentation.

In an aspect coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux that can facilitate manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. The mux demux can multiplex information e.g. data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as for example time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM etc. In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod also can be part of the communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

In an embodiment the AP optionally can include a sensor component e.g. integrated or otherwise associated with the AP comprising one or more sensors wherein the sensors can include one or more types of sensors that can sense or detect a UE when the UE is in proximity to e.g. within a predefined distance of the sensor component to facilitate identifying the location of the UE or enabling the UE and associated user to interact with an exhibit in proximity to the sensor and or can track UE or UE user traffic associated with a physical area to facilitate generation of information presentation itineraries or tracking of popularity of exhibits programs points of interest etc.

The AP also can comprise a processor s that can be configured to confer and or facilitate providing functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in or associated with the AP . For instance the processor s can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. The processor s also can facilitate other operations on data for example to sense or detect UEs or to facilitate managing or maintaining a white list that includes information such as communication device identifiers associated with communication devices that can connect to the AP to communicate voice or data etc.

In another aspect the AP can include a data store that can store data structures code instructions rate coding information information relating to measurement of radio link quality or reception of information related thereto information relating to establishing a communications connection between a communication device e.g. UE and other communication devices information relating to sensing or detecting UEs white list information information relating to managing or maintaining the white list system or device information like policies and specifications code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration access point deployment and frequency plans scheduling policies and so on. The processor s can be coupled to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. information such as algorithms relating to multiplexing demultiplexing or modulation demodulation information relating to radio link levels information relating to establishing communication connections associated with a UE s served by the AP information relating to the white list etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality to the communication platform the optional sensor component and or other operational components of AP .

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems and or devices described herein example methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methodologies disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example a method disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methodologies in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with the subject specification. It should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At a subset of interactive services can be provided to the at least one UE and the at least one user for use in relation to at least an information presentation. In an aspect the PMC and or controller UE can generate and provide a subset of interactive services to the at least one UE to make such interactive services available to the at least one UE user. The interactive services can comprise for example a desired tour route instructions and information presentation itinerary relating to the information presentation based at least in part on the contextual location and current location of the at least one UE user whiteboard access to provide comments and notes regarding aspects e.g. topics exhibits programs etc. of the information presentation broadcast intercom service uni cast communication service dynamic pop up recommendations etc. If the UE user is the only UE user in the group e.g. individual tour the subset of interactive services can be customized e.g. tailored based at least in part on the contextual information e.g. user preferences associated with the UE user and availability of resources relating to the information presentation e.g. availability of exhibits programs lectures etc. .

If the UE user is part of a group certain of the subset of interactive services can be customized based at least in part on the contextual information associated with the UE user and availability of resources relating to the information presentation and other of the subset of interactive services can be identified and provided based at least in part on the collective contextual information associated with the UE users in the group and availability of resources relating to the information presentation. For instance the sending of pop up recommendations to a UE can be respectively customized for respective UE users in a group based at least in part on respective user preferences relating to the sending of pop up recommendations. The tour route information presentation itinerary and instructions can be identified or determined based at least in part on the collective contextual information of the group the location of the UEs in the group e.g. controller UE and availability of resources relating to the information presentation.

At the time constraints of the at least one UE user in relation to the information presentation can be identified based at least in part on the contextual information. For instance the at least one UE user can provide to the PMC the time window or amount of time that that the at least one UE user has to participate in the information presentation. The PMC can identify the time constraints e.g. length of time or time window available for the information presentation for the at least one UE user.

At the current location s of the at least one UE can be identified. In an aspect the PMC can identify the respective current location s of one or more UEs of a group based at least in part on location information such as for example GPS information or information obtained from one or more sensors associated with the PMC.

At the status e.g. current state expected state in the future during the time period of the information presentation of the resources associated with the information presentation can be identified based at least in part on the time period for the information presentation. The PMC can obtain and analyze information relating to the status of the resources e.g. exhibits programs lectures other presentations associated with the information presentation. The status information can relate to the time a particular resource is available or is being presented the number of persons currently utilizing or experiencing the resource or the number of persons expecting to be utilizing or experiencing the resource at a given time e.g. based at least in part on current or historical information the maximum number of persons that can utilize or experience the resource at a given time time schedule of respective exhibits programs lectures or other presentations etc.

At at least one customized information presentation can be generated based at least in part on location of the at least one UE e.g. mobile communication device contextual information e.g. user preferences associated with the at least one user of the at least one UE and the status of the resources associated with the information presentation. If there is only one UE user in the group e.g. individual tour a customized information presentation can be identified and generated for that UE user. If there is more than one UE user in the group and the UE users in the group have specified that they desire to experience the same information presentation and have the same tour route and itinerary a customized information presentation can be identified and generated for that group of UE users based at least in part on the collective contextual information of the group of UE users. If there is more than one UE user in the group and the UE users in the group have specified that they desire to split the information presentation the tour route and itinerary so that the group members can divide up to cover respective portions of the information presentation the tour route and itinerary a desired number of customized information presentations can be identified and generated for that group of UE users based at least in part on the collective contextual information of the group of UE users wherein each of the customized information presentations can cover a respective portion of the entire information presentation that is desired to be covered by the group of UE users.

At information relating to the at least one customized information presentation can be provided to the at least one UE. The information can include a desired tour route tour instructions information presentation itinerary e.g. program or lecture schedules time s to view or experience a particular exhibit etc. portions of information presentations e.g. streamed video and audio relating to a particular topic pop up recommendations or advertisements etc. As desired the PMC and or controller UE can push at least a portion of the information to the UE s in the group. If there is more than one UE user in the group and the UE users are dividing the information presentation into different parts the PMC can send respective portions of the information relating to the customized information presentation to the respective UEs in the group although as desired the UE users of a group can have information relating to the tour route instructions and information presentations for the other members of the group.

At the slow down indicator can be presented. In an aspect the UE indicator or information relating thereto can be presented e.g. via visual and or audio presentation via the controller UE to the head of the group. At as desired the pace of the information presentation can be adjusted e.g. temporarily slowed down or halted in response to the slow down indicator. For instance as desired the head of the group using the controller UE and or PMC can temporarily pause or slow down the procession of the group through the information presentation and or temporarily pause or slow down the information presentation e.g. temporarily pause the streaming of information to the UEs in the group to allow the UE user that sent the slow down indicator to catch up to the rest of the group. As desired the head of the group also can use the controller UE to notify everyone in the group that the information presentation is being temporarily paused to allow those that have fallen behind the group to catch up to the group and or take other desired action in response to the slow down indicator.

At the raise hand indicator can be presented. In an aspect the UE e.g. controller UE sub controller UE slave UE that receives the raise hand indicator can present the raise hand indicator and or associated information e.g. the question or comment or other information relating to the question or comment to the UE user e.g. group leader group member associated with that UE. At information e.g. input information relating to selection of the UE which sent the raise hand indicator can be received. For instance the UE user who is associated with the UE that received the raise hand indicator can input information to the UE associated with that UE user to facilitate selecting the UE that sent the raise hand indicator e.g. select an icon representative of the UE which sent the raise hand indicator on a UE display to facilitate responding to the raise hand indicator.

At a response can be communicated to the UE that sent the raise hand indicator. For instance the UE e.g. controller UE which received the raise hand indicator can transmit a response e.g. acknowledgement message which acknowledges the raise hand indicator and or requests more information regarding the reason for sending the raise hand indicator to the UE that sent the raise hand indicator and or other desired UEs in the group. At information such as the question or comment can be received from the UE that sent the raise hand indicator. For instance the UE user who sent the raise hand indicator can use the user s UE to transmit the question or comment and or other desired information to the desired UE e.g. controller UE or UE of another group member and the desired UE can receive the question comment and or other desired information.

At the whiteboard comprising the one or more communications can be presented. In an aspect the PMC can facilitate transmitting the whiteboard and the communications thereon to the UEs of a group and when a UE user selects to have the whiteboard displayed on the display screen or other interface e.g. speakers of the UE the whiteboard including the communications e.g. textual web site links video pictures audio etc. or a desired portion thereof can be presented to the UE user. In another aspect the communications can be displayed or otherwise presented on the whiteboard displayed or presented on a UE in a desired language wherein the whiteboard communications can be translated to the desired language when desired. In still another aspect as desired a UE user can filter the communications displayed or otherwise presented on the whiteboard so that only desired communications are presented on the UE of the UE user. The filtering can be based at least in part on for example the cluster a communication is associated with e.g. only present whiteboard communications from UEs in a specified cluster specified UEs associated with a communication e.g. only present whiteboard communications by UEs of family members only present whiteboard communications by the controller UE type of communication e.g. only display textual comments do not display pictures size of communication e.g. length of communication file size of communication etc. time or time window e.g. only show communications that were posted during a specified time period or another desired filter s etc.

At one or more recommendations or advertisements can be identified based at least in part on the location of the UE and the evaluation of the current and historical information of the UE user. For example the UE user can be touring a history museum. The PMC identify the location of the UE as being within 200 feet of the exit of the museum and 100 feet of a museum gift shop that sells a wide variety of civil war memorabilia and also can detect that the current time is within a time window that tourists typically leave the museum to go to lunch. The PMC can evaluate current and historical information associated with the UE user and UE and can learn that the UE user and UE interacted with civil war exhibits for at least a predefined period of time during the tour or for more time than the UE user or UE interacted with other types of exhibits and as a result can determine that the UE user may be interested in civil war memorabilia. Also the PMC can determine that the UE user may be interested in having lunch given the UE user s location in relation to the exit and the current time. Based at least in part on the evaluation the PMC can identify an advertisement for civil war memorabilia that will offer a discount on an item of civil war memorabilia at the gift shop and a recommendation for a restaurant that is located within one block of the museum.

At the one or more recommendations or advertisements can be presented to the UE of the UE user. For example the advertisement for civil war memorabilia and the restaurant recommendation can be communicated to the UE of the user. The advertisement if containing a discount or coupon can be presented to the store associate who can view or scan the advertisement to facilitate applying the appropriate discount to the cost of the item being purchased.

At at least one other UE can be configured to be a slave UE in relation to the controller UE. The at least one other UE can be one UE that is configured to be a slave UE in relation to the controller UE or if there is more than one other UEs the other UEs can be configured as slave UEs or certain of the UEs can be configured as sub controller UEs and or certain of the UEs can be configured as slave UEs. For instance if there are four other UEs wherein two UEs are associated with a first family comprising a father and a son and two other UEs are associated with a second family comprising a mother and a daughter it can be desirable to configure the father s UE as a sub controller UE and the son s UE as a slave UE in relation to the father s UE and the controller UE and configure the mother s UE as a sub controller UE and the daughter s UE as a slave UE in relation to both the mother s UE and the controller UE. The respective sub controller UEs also can operate as slave UEs in relation to the controller UE as disclosed herein.

At communications between the controller UE and the at least one other UE can be controlled e.g. by the controller UE based at least in part on the respective configurations of the controller UE and the at least one other UE. For instance the controller UE can control at least in part communications from or to the controller UE to or from subordinate UEs e.g. sub controller UEs slave UEs in the group and the sub controller UE of a sub group can control at least in part communications from or to the sub controller UE to or from a slave UEs in the sub group communications from or to the controller UE to or from the slave UE in the sub group and inter group communications by UEs e.g. communications between a slave UE in its sub group and a UE that is part of another sub group . For example as desired a controller UE can be set to allow communications from a subordinate UE in the group when such subordinate UE is selected e.g. in response to a raise hand indicator from the subordinate UE or to control the times during the information presentation e.g. during a free discussion period when subordinate UEs can send broadcast intercom communications. As another example a sub controller UE can be set to control inter group communications of a slave UE in its sub group to not allow the slave UE to communicate with other UEs outside the sub group without receiving permission from the user of the sub controller UE via the sub controller UE.

At in response to a received indication to provide the information presentation the information presentation relating to the exhibit can be presented to the UE. For instance the UE user using the UE can respond to the notification of the information presentation relating to the exhibit by selecting a control e.g. button indicating that the UE user desires to receive and or perceive the information presentation on the user s UE and the PMC or exhibit can communicate e.g. stream the information presentation to the UE of the user and the UE can present e.g. display broadcast the information presentation to the UE user. It is to be appreciated and understood that in accordance with another embodiment as desired the information presentation can be automatically and dynamically presented to the UE of the UE user without a notification being communicated to the UE.

In some aspects the teachings herein can or may be employed in a network that includes macro scale coverage e.g. a large area cellular network such as a 3G network typically referred to as a macrocell network and smaller scale coverage e.g. a residence based or building based network environment . As an access terminal AT moves through such a network the AT may be served in certain locations by access nodes ANs that provide macro coverage while the AT may be served at other locations by access nodes that provide smaller scale coverage. In some aspects the smaller coverage nodes may be used to provide incremental capacity growth in building coverage and different services e.g. for a more robust user experience . In the discussion herein a node that provides coverage over a relatively large area may be referred to as a macro node. A node that provides coverage over a relatively small area e.g. a residence may be referred to as a femto node. A node that provides coverage over an area that is smaller than a macro area and larger than a femto area may be referred to as a pico node e.g. providing coverage within a commercial building .

A cell associated with a macro node a femto node or a pico node may be referred to as a macrocell a femtocell or a picocell respectively. In some implementations each cell may be further associated with e.g. divided into one or more sectors.

In various applications other terminology may be used to reference a macro node a femto node or a pico node. For example a macro node may be configured or referred to as an access node base station access point eNodeB macro cell and so on. Also a femto node may be configured or referred to as a Home NodeB Home eNodeB access point base station femtocell and so on.

Referring again to the owner of a femto node may subscribe to mobile service such as for example 3G mobile service offered through the mobile operator core network . In addition an access terminal may be capable of operating both in macro environments and in smaller scale e.g. residential network environments. In other words depending on the current location of the access terminal the access terminal may be served by an access node of the macro cell mobile network or by any one of a set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes A and B that reside within a corresponding user residence . For example when a subscriber is outside his home he is served by a standard macro access node e.g. node and when the subscriber is at home he is served by a femto node e.g. node A . Here it should be appreciated that a femto node may be backward compatible with existing access terminals .

A femto node may be deployed on a single frequency or in the alternative on multiple frequencies. Depending on the particular configuration the single frequency or one or more of the multiple frequencies may overlap with one or more frequencies used by a macro node e.g. node .

In some aspects an access terminal may be configured to connect to a preferred femto node e.g. the home femto node of the access terminal whenever such connectivity is possible. For example whenever the access terminal is within the user s residence it may be desired that the access terminal communicate only with the home femto node .

In some aspects if the access terminal operates within the macro cellular network but is not residing on its most preferred network e.g. as defined in a preferred roaming list the access terminal may continue to search for the most preferred network e.g. the preferred femto node using a Better System Reselection BSR which may involve a periodic scanning of available systems to determine whether better systems are currently available and subsequent efforts to associate with such preferred systems. With the acquisition entry the access terminal may limit the search for specific band and channel. For example the search for the most preferred system may be repeated periodically. Upon discovery of a preferred femto node the access terminal selects the femto node for camping within its coverage area.

A femto node may be restricted in some aspects. For example a given femto node may only provide certain services to certain access terminals. In deployments with so called restricted or closed association a given access terminal may only be served by the macro cell mobile network and a defined set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes that reside within the corresponding user residence . In some implementations a node may be restricted to not provide for at least one node at least one of signaling data access registration paging or service.

In some aspects a restricted femto node which may also be referred to as a Closed Subscriber Group Home NodeB is one that provides service to a restricted provisioned set of access terminals. This set may be temporarily or permanently extended as necessary. In some aspects a Closed Subscriber Group CSG may be defined as the set of access nodes e.g. femto nodes that share a common access control list of access terminals. A channel on which all femto nodes or all restricted femto nodes in a region operate may be referred to as a femto channel.

Various relationships may thus exist between a given femto node and a given access terminal. For example from the perspective of an access terminal an open femto node may refer to a femto node with no restricted association. A restricted femto node may refer to a femto node that is restricted in some manner e.g. restricted for association and or registration . A home femto node may refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is authorized to access and operate on. A guest femto node may refer to a femto node on which an access terminal is temporarily authorized to access or operate on. An alien femto node may refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is not authorized to access or operate on except for perhaps emergency situations e.g. calls .

From a restricted femto node perspective a home access terminal may refer to an access terminal that authorized to access the restricted femto node. A guest access terminal may refer to an access terminal with temporary access to the restricted femto node. An alien access terminal may refer to an access terminal that does not have permission to access the restricted femto node except for perhaps emergency situations for example such as 911 calls e.g. an access terminal that does not have the credentials or permission to register with the restricted femto node .

For convenience the disclosure herein describes various functionality in the context of a femto node. It should be appreciated however that a pico node may provide the same or similar functionality for a larger coverage area. For example a pico node may be restricted a home pico node may be defined for a given access terminal and so on.

A wireless multiple access communication system may simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless access terminals. As mentioned above each terminal may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link may be established via a single in single out system a multiple in multiple out MIMO system or some other type of system.

A MIMO system employs multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. A MIMO channel formed by the Ntransmit and Nreceive antennas may be decomposed into Nindependent channels which are also referred to as spatial channels where N minN N. Each of the Nindependent channels corresponds to a dimension. The MIMO system may provide improved performance e.g. higher throughput and or greater reliability if the additional dimensionalities created by the multiple transmit and receive antennas are utilized.

A MIMO system may support time division duplex TDD and frequency division duplex FDD . In a TDD system the forward and reverse link transmissions are on the same frequency region so that the reciprocity principle allows the estimation of the forward link channel from the reverse link channel. This enables the access point to extract transmit beam forming gain on the forward link when multiple antennas are available at the access point.

The teachings herein may be incorporated into a node e.g. a device employing various components for communicating with at least one other node. depicts several sample components that may be employed to facilitate communication between nodes. Specifically illustrates a wireless device e.g. an access point and a wireless device e.g. an access terminal of a MIMO system . At the device traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor .

In some aspects each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. The TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated i.e. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. BPSK QSPK M PSK or M QAM selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by a processor . A data memory may store program code data and other information used by the processor or other components of the device .

The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor which may further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . The TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransceivers XCVR A through T. In some aspects the TX MIMO processor applies beam forming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transceiver receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transceivers A through T are then transmitted from Nantennas A through T respectively.

At the device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas A through R and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective transceiver XCVR A through R. Each transceiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

A receive RX data processor then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Ntransceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. The RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by the RX data processor is complementary to that performed by the TX MIMO processor and the TX data processor at the device .

A processor periodically determines which pre coding matrix to use discussed below . The processor formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion. A data memory may store program code data and other information used by the processor or other components of the device .

The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by the transceivers A through R and transmitted back to the device .

At the device the modulated signals from the device are received by the antennas conditioned by the transceivers demodulated by a demodulator DEMOD and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by the device . The processor then determines which pre coding matrix to use for determining the beam forming weights then processes the extracted message.

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. UE AP communication network core network IP based network ESMC UE ESMC etc. as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methodologies disclosed herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. For example information relevant to operation of various components described in the disclosed subject matter and that can be stored in a memory can comprise but is not limited to comprising subscriber information cell configuration e.g. devices served by an AP or service policies and specifications privacy policies and so forth. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM phase change memory PCM flash memory or nonvolatile RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. card stick key drive . . . or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

