---

title: Method and apparatus for restricting flow through an opening in the side wall of a body lumen, and/or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of a body lumen, while still maintaining substantially normal flow through the body lumen
abstract: An expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in a blood vessel or other body lumen, comprising:


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08663301&OS=08663301&RS=08663301
owner: Cornell University
number: 08663301
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100122
---
 i is a continuation in part of pending prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 332 727 filed Dec. 11 2008 by Howard Riina et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SEALING AN OPENING IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN AND OR FOR REINFORCING A WEAKNESS IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN WHILE MAINTAINING SUBSTANTIALLY NORMAL FLOW THROUGH THE BODY LUMEN which in turn claims benefit of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 007 189 filed Dec. 11 2007 by Howard Riina et al. for DEPLOYABLE BLOCKING SPHERE 

 ii claims benefit of pending prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 205 683 filed Jan. 22 2009 by Jeffrey Milsom et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SEALING AN OPENING IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN AND OR FOR REINFORCING A WEAKNESS IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN WHILE MAINTAINING SUBSTANTIALLY NORMAL FLOW THROUGH THE BODY LUMEN and

 iii claims benefit of pending prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 277 415 filed Sep. 24 2009 by Howard Riina et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTRICTING AN OPENING IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN AND OR FOR REINFORCING A WEAKNESS IN THE SIDE WALL OF A BODY LUMEN WHILE MAINTAINING SUBSTANTIALLY NORMAL FLOW THROUGH THE BODY LUMEN.

This invention relates to medical procedures and apparatus in general and more particularly to medical procedures and apparatus for restricting flow through an opening in the side wall of a body lumen and or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of a body lumen while still maintaining substantially normal flow through the body lumen.

The human body consists of many different anatomical structures. Among these anatomical structures are the blood vessels which circulate blood throughout the body i.e. the arteries which deliver oxygenated blood to the end tissues and the veins which return oxygen depleted blood from the end tissues.

In some cases a blood vessel can become weakened thereby causing the side wall of the blood vessel to balloon outwardly so as to create an aneurysm. See for example which show various types of aneurysms e.g. a fusiform aneurysm where the aneurysm extends around a substantial portion of the circumference of a blood vessel a lateral aneurysm where the aneurysm extends out of a limited portion of the side wall of a blood vessel with a well defined neck and a bifurcation aneurysm where the aneurysm extends out of the apex of a bifurcation of a blood vessel. For purposes of the present invention all of these aneurysms e.g. fusiform aneurysms lateral aneurysms and or bifurcations aneurysms are considered to extend out of the side wall of a blood vessel.

Aneurysms can present a serious threat to the patient since they may enlarge to the point of rupture thereby resulting in a rapid and uncontrolled loss of blood. Depending upon the size and location of the aneurysm the aneurysm can be life threatening.

By way of example but not limitation an intracranial aneurysm can be fatal if rupture occurs. Given the life threatening nature of such intracranial aneurysms these aneurysms have traditionally been treated with an open craniotomy and microsurgical clipping. This procedure generally involves placing a small titanium clip across the neck of the aneurysm thus isolating the aneurysm from blood flow and inhibiting subsequent rupture or re rupture . This clipping procedure is typically done under direct visualization using an operating microscope.

More recently minimally invasive techniques have also been used to treat both ruptured and un ruptured brain aneurysms. These minimally invasive techniques generally employ interventional neuroradiological procedures utilizing digital fluoroscopy. More particularly these interventional neuroradiological procedures generally use X ray visualization to allow the surgeon to place a microcatheter within the dome of the aneurysm. With the microcatheter in place detachable coils are then deployed within the dome of the aneurysm thereby reducing blood velocity within the dome of the aneurysm and causing thrombosis of the aneurysm so as to prevent subsequent rupture or re rupture . However this coil depositing procedure has a number of drawbacks including the risk of coil herniation into the lumen of the blood vessel the risk of coil migration out of the aneurysm and into the blood vessel with subsequent downstream migration the risk of aneurysm rupture etc.

As a result a primary object of the present invention is to provide a new and improved device adapted for minimally invasive endoluminal delivery which may be used to restrict blood flow to an aneurysm while still maintaining substantially normal blood flow through the blood vessel.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an expandable spherical structure comprising an open frame with a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density which may be used to restrict flow through an opening in a side wall of a blood vessel while still maintaining substantially normal blood flow through the blood vessel.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an expandable spherical structure comprising an open frame with a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density which may be used to reinforce a weakness in a side wall of a blood vessel while still maintaining substantially normal blood flow through the blood vessel.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an expandable spherical structure comprising an open frame with a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density which may be used to restrict flow through an opening in the side wall of a lumen other than a blood vessel and or so as to reinforce a weakness in a side wall of a lumen other than a blood vessel while still maintaining substantially normal flow through the lumen.

Another object of the present invention is to provide an expandable spherical structure which may be used to facilitate the deployment of detachable coils and or other embolic material into the interior of an aneurysm while still maintaining substantially normal flow through the blood vessel.

These and other objects of the present invention are addressed through the provision and use of a novel expandable spherical structure.

In one form of the invention there is provided an expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in a blood vessel or other body lumen comprising 

an open frame formed out of a closed loop of filament and configured to assume i a collapsed configuration in the form of a substantially two dimensional elongated loop structure so as to facilitate insertion into the blood vessel or other body lumen and ii an expanded configuration in the form of a three dimensional substantially spherical structure so as to facilitate retention at a site in the blood vessel or other body lumen and

wherein the open frame is configured so as to permit substantially normal flow therethrough when the open frame is in its expanded configuration and further wherein the flow restricting face is configured so as to restrict flow therethrough.

In another form of the invention there is provided a system for restricting flow to an opening in the side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or reinforcing a weakness in the side wall or apex of a bifurcation of the blood vessel or other body lumen while maintaining substantially normal flow through the blood vessel or other body lumen comprising 

an expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in the blood vessel or other body lumen comprising 

an installation tool for carrying the expandable substantially spherical structure to a deployment site wherein the installation tool comprises 

In another form of the invention there is provided a method for restricting flow to an opening in the side wall of a body lumen while maintaining substantially normal flow through the body lumen comprising 

providing an expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in the body lumen comprising 

delivering the expandable substantially spherical structure to a therapy site within the body lumen while the open frame is in its collapsed configuration and

transforming the expandable substantially spherical structure from its collapsed configuration to its expanded configuration so that the expandable substantially spherical structure is securely lodged in the body lumen with the flow restricting face of the expandable substantially spherical structure positioned so as to restrict flow to the opening in the side wall of the body lumen and with the open frame permitting flow through the body lumen.

In another form of the invention there is provided an expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in a blood vessel or other body lumen comprising 

wherein the open frame and the plurality of stabilizing legs are configured so as to permit substantially normal flow therethrough when the open frame is in its expanded configuration and further wherein the flow restricting face is configured so as to restrict flow therethrough.

In another form of the invention there is provided a method for restricting flow through an opening in the side wall of a body lumen while maintaining substantially normal flow through the body lumen comprising 

providing an expandable substantially spherical structure for deployment in the body lumen comprising 

delivering the expandable substantially spherical structure to a therapy site within the body lumen while the open frame is in its collapsed configuration and the plurality of stabilizing legs are in a collapsed configuration and

transforming the expandable substantially spherical structure from its collapsed configuration to its expanded configuration and transforming the plurality of stabilizing legs from their collapsed configuration to an expanded configuration so that the expandable substantially spherical structure is securely lodged in the body lumen with the flow restricting face of the expandable substantially spherical structure positioned so as to restrict flow to the opening in the side wall of the body lumen and with the open frame and the plurality of stabilizing legs permitting flow through the body lumen.

Looking now at there is shown a novel expandable spherical structure formed in accordance with the present invention. Expandable spherical structure is adapted for minimally invasive endoluminal delivery into a blood vessel or other body lumen for restricting flow through an opening in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen and or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen while still maintaining substantially normal flow through the blood vessel or other body lumen.

Expandable spherical structure generally comprises a spherical body comprising an open frame with a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density . Preferably open frame and flow restricting face together define the entire exterior shape of the spherical body with open frame making up the majority of the exterior shape of the spherical body.

In one preferred form of the invention open frame defines approximately 90 of the exterior shape of the spherical body and flow restricting face defines approximately 10 of the exterior shape of the spherical body. In another preferred form of the invention open frame defines approximately 80 of the exterior shape of the spherical body and flow restricting face defines approximately 20 of the exterior shape of the spherical body. In yet another preferred form of the invention open frame comprises approximately 70 of the exterior shape of the spherical body and flow restricting face defines approximately 30 of the exterior shape of the spherical body. And in yet another preferred form of the invention open frame comprises approximately 60 of the exterior shape of the spherical body and flow restricting face comprises approximately 40 of the exterior shape of the spherical body.

Expandable spherical structure is constructed so that it may be deployed in a blood vessel or other body lumen by i collapsing the expandable spherical structure into a configuration of reduced dimension ii moving the collapsed structure through the blood vessel or other body lumen to a therapy site and iii expanding the collapsed structure to an enlarged dimension at the therapy site whereby to secure the expandable spherical structure in the blood vessel or body lumen so that its flow restricting face is presented to a side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen whereby to restrict flow to an aneurysm or other opening in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen or to otherwise reinforce a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen without significantly impeding normal flow through the blood vessel or other body lumen.

Significantly by forming expandable spherical structure in the shape of a spherical body the endoluminal device is readily centered on the neck of an aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen with flow restricting face projecting into the neck of the aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen and reliably restricting flow into the aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen.

Furthermore by forming expandable spherical structure so that it can expand at the therapy site and lodge itself in the blood vessel or other body lumen with its flow restricting face presented to a side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen expandable spherical structure is effectively self sizing since it can be expanded to the degree necessary to span the blood vessel or other body lumen.

More particularly expandable spherical structure generally comprises an open frame which has a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density carried thereon. Open frame is formed so that it can assume a first collapsed configuration of reduced dimension so as to facilitate moving expandable spherical structure endoluminally through the blood vessel or other body lumen to the therapy site. Open frame is also formed so that it can thereafter be re configured to a second expanded configuration of enlarged dimension whereby expandable spherical structure can be lodged in the blood vessel or other body lumen at the therapy site with its flow restricting face pressed securely against a side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. In this position flow restricting face of expandable spherical structure can restrict flow to an aneurysm in the blood vessel such as the lateral aneurysm shown in or a bifurcation aneurysm as will hereinafter be discussed below or restrict flow to an opening in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen or reinforce a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen etc.

Significantly by forming the endoluminal device as an expandable spherical structure the device can be collapsed to a reduced dimension for minimally invasive endoluminal delivery into a blood vessel or other body lumen yet can thereafter be expanded to the required dimension for secure lodgment at the therapy site whereby to restrict flow to an opening in a body lumen and or to reinforce a weakness in the side wall of the body lumen. Furthermore by forming expandable spherical structure in the shape of a spherical body the endoluminal device is readily centered on the neck of an aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen with flow restricting face projecting into the neck of the aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen and reliably restricting flow into the aneurysm or other opening in a body lumen. And by forming expandable spherical structure so that it can expand at the therapy site and lodge itself in the blood vessel or other body lumen with its flow restricting face presented to a side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen expandable spherical structure is effectively self sizing since it expands to the degree necessary to span the blood vessel or other body lumen. Additionally by forming open frame as an open structure expandable spherical structure can be disposed in the blood vessel or body lumen without significantly impeding normal flow through the blood vessel or other body lumen .

As noted above i expandable spherical structure generally comprises a spherical body comprising an open frame with a flow restricting face i.e. a closed face or a face having a high strut density ii open frame and flow restricting face together preferably define the entire exterior shape of the spherical body with open frame making up the majority of the exterior shape of the spherical body iii open frame is capable of being collapsed in dimension for easy delivery of expandable spherical structure to the therapy site and thereafter expanded in dimension at the therapy site so as to hold flow restricting face against a side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and iv open frame is configured so that it does not significantly impede normal flow through the blood vessel or lumen within which it is deployed.

To this end open frame is preferably formed with an expandable strut construction so that it can i first assume a configuration of reduced dimension so that expandable spherical body can move easily through the body to the therapy site and ii thereafter assume a configuration of expanded dimension so that it can be securely retained at the desired location in the blood vessel or other body lumen and press flow restricting face securely against the side wall of the blood vessel or body lumen whereby to restrict flow to an aneurysm or other opening in the blood vessel or other body lumen or to otherwise reinforce the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. And by forming open frame with an expandable strut construction open frame is effectively self sizing since it expands to the degree necessary to span the blood vessel or other body lumen.

Significantly by forming open frame with an expandable strut construction open frame does not significantly impede normal flow through the blood vessel or other body lumen when open frame is in its expanded configuration within the blood vessel or other body lumen.

Thus for example in the configuration shown in open frame comprises a plurality of struts arranged in a polygonal configuration with the struts being sized so that the struts present minimal obstruction to normal flow through the lumen.

In one preferred construction open frame may be formed out of a shape memory alloy SMA such as Nitinol and a temperature transition may be used to change the configuration of open frame . By way of example but not limitation open frame can be formed so that when it is cooled to a temperature below body temperature the open frame assumes a collapsed configuration and when it is thereafter warmed to body temperature the open frame assumes an expanded configuration . If desired open frame can be warmed to body temperature simply by deploying expandable spherical structure in the body. Alternatively an electrical current may be applied to open frame so as to heat open frame to its expansion temperature e.g. via resistance heating. Or a warm or cold saline solution can be flushed through open frame so as to appropriately modulate the temperature of the open frame whereby to cause the open frame to assume a desired configuration.

Alternatively open frame can be formed out of a resilient material which can be forcibly compressed into a collapsed configuration restrained in this collapsed configuration and thereafter released so that it elastically returns to its expanded configuration. By way of example but not limitation in this form of the invention expandable spherical structure might be compressed into a configuration of a reduced dimension restrained within a sleeve delivered to the therapy site within the sleeve and then released from the sleeve so that it elastically returns to an expanded configuration at the therapy site whereby to lodge itself in the blood vessel or other body lumen with its flow restricting face pressed against the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. By way of further example but not limitation open frame can be formed out of a shape memory alloy SMA engineered to form stress induced martensite SIM and thereby exhibit superelastic properties whereby to permit large shape deformations with elastic return. By way of still further example but not limitation open frame can be formed out of a suitable polymer which exhibits the desired elastic properties.

In another preferred form of the present invention open frame is formed with a structure which can be collapsed for delivery to the deployment site and thereafter enlarged to an expanded configuration through the use of an expansion device e.g. an internal balloon where the balloon is inflated at the therapy site so as to reconfigure open frame to an expanded condition. This arrangement can be advantageous since it does not require the open frame to rely on temperature transition or elasticity to expand to its fully expanded configuration or to any desired expanded configuration less than its fully expanded configuration . Thus a wide range of well known biocompatible materials e.g. medical grade stainless steel may be used to form open frame .

Flow restricting face is carried by e.g. mounted on formed integral with or otherwise connected to open frame so that flow restricting face can be pressed securely against the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen within which expandable spherical structure is deployed.

Flow restricting face may comprise a closed face in the sense that it comprises a substantially complete surface or barrier which is capable of closing off an aneurysm or other opening in side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. See where flow restricting face is depicted as a closed face.

Alternatively and as will be discussed in detail below flow restricting face may comprise a face having a high strut density which is capable of restricting flow to an aneurysm or other opening in a side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. In this case flow restricting face may not constitute a substantially complete surface or flow restricting face may not constitute a substantially fluid impervious surface but flow restricting face will have a strut density sufficiently high to restrict flow through that face e.g. so as to cause an aneurysm to thrombose.

Flow restricting face may be formed so as to be substantially rigid or it may be formed so as to be flexible.

Flow restricting face preferably has the convex configuration shown in so that it can form a regular portion of the spherical body of expandable structure . However it should be appreciated that flow restricting face may also be formed with a planar configuration or some other configuration if desired.

If desired expandable spherical structure can have some or all of its elements formed out of an absorbable material so that some or all of the elements are removed from the therapy site after some period of time has elapsed.

By way of example but not limitation open frame can be formed out of an absorbable material and flow restricting face can be formed out of a non absorbable material so that only flow restricting face is retained at the therapy site after some period of time has passed. See . This type of construction can be advantageous where flow restricting face integrates into the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen after some period of time has elapsed so that a supporting frame is no longer necessary to hold flow restricting face in position against the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen.

It is also possible for the entire expandable spherical structure to be formed out of absorbable material s i.e. with both open frame and flow restricting face being formed out of absorbable materials. This type of construction can be advantageous where flow restricting face only needs to be held against the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen for a limited period of time e.g. until aneurysm thrombosis scarring is complete or to reinforce the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen while healing occurs etc.

It should also be appreciated that where both open frame and flow restricting face are absorbable they may be engineered so as to have different absorption rates so that they are removed from the therapy site at different times. This may be done by making the various elements out of different materials or by making the various elements out of different blends of the same materials etc.

As noted above expandable spherical structure can be used to restrict flow to various types of aneurysms.

Thus for example and show expandable spherical structure being used to restrict flow to a lateral aneurysm i.e. in these particular embodiments to close off the lateral aneurysm .

However it should also be appreciated that expandable spherical structure may be used to restrict flow to a bifurcation aneurysm as well. Thus for example show the expandable spherical structure of being used restrict flow to a bifurcation aneurysm and show the expandable spherical structure of being used to restrict flow to a bifurcation aneurysm i.e. in these particular embodiments to close off the bifurcation aneurysm . In this respect it should be appreciated that the spherical shape of expandable spherical structure is particularly well suited for use in treating bifurcation aneurysms since it may be seated securely at the bifurcation pressing flow restricting face securely against the bifurcation aneurysm while still allowing blood to flow substantially unobstructed through the blood vessels.

It is also anticipated that expandable spherical structure may be used to restrict flow to other types of aneurysms as well e.g. certain forms of fusiform aneurysms. Where expandable spherical structure is to be used to restrict flow to a fusiform aneurysm flow restricting face may comprise a significantly enlarged surface area or flow restricting face may comprise two or more separated segments disposed about the lateral portions of open frame etc.

It should be appreciated that open frame can be formed with a variety of different configurations without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In one form of the invention open frame may be formed out of a plurality of struts arranged in a polygonal array. See for example and where open frame is shown formed out of a plurality of struts arranged as triangular polygons. See also where open frame is formed out of a plurality of struts arranged as rectangular polygons and where open frame is formed out of a plurality of struts arranged as hexagons.

Thus for example open frame may be formed with a spherical spiral structure e.g. such as is shown in where a spiral strut forms the open frame .

It will be appreciated that with the construction shown in flow restricting face sits at one end of the plurality of axially aligned struts and annular ring sits at the opposing end of the plurality of axially aligned struts . Since struts are intended to be bowed inwardly so that the expandable spherical structure can assume a reduced configuration the spherical cage structure of is generally intended to be delivered axially with flow restricting face leading. Thus this construction is particularly well suited for use with bifurcation aneurysms where the neck of the aneurysm is typically axially aligned with the direction of approach see for example and . Accordingly where the spherical cage structure is intended to be used with lateral aneurysms it may be desirable to use the spherical cage configuration shown in where flow restricting face is disposed to one side of the axis of approach i.e. to one side of the axis shown in . In other words where the spherical cage structure is intended to be used with a bifurcation aneurysm flow restricting face is intended to be aligned with the axis of approach and where the spherical cage structure is intended to be used with a lateral aneurysm flow restricting face is intended to be disposed to one side of the axis of approach. In this way expandable spherical structure can be endoluminally advanced to the therapy site and flow restricting face properly positioned relative to the anatomy.

Various installation tools may be provided to deploy expandable spherical structure within a blood vessel or other body lumen.

Thus for example in there is shown a syringe type e.g. an outer sleeve with an internal pusher installation tool for deploying the expandable spherical structure shown in . Installation tool generally comprises a hollow sleeve having a lumen therein and a pusher slidably disposed within lumen . Lumen is sized so that it can accommodate expandable spherical structure when the expandable spherical structure is in its reduced configuration but not when it is in its enlarged configuration . As a result of this construction expandable spherical structure may be positioned within lumen distal to pusher when expandable spherical structure is in its reduced configuration advanced to the therapy site while within sleeve and then installed at the therapy site by advancing pusher so that expandable spherical structure is ejected from the interior of sleeve . Once expandable spherical structure has been ejected from sleeve expandable spherical structure can return to an expanded configuration so as to be securely engaged in the blood vessel or other body lumen in the manner previously described with flow restricting face pressed against a side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. It will be appreciated that the syringe type installation tool is particularly advantageous where expandable spherical structure is elastically deformable such that sleeve can serve to mechanically restrain the expandable spherical structure in its reduced configuration while the expandable spherical structure is within sleeve and release that mechanical constraint when the expandable spherical structure is ejected from sleeve .

As noted above expandable spherical structure of and is well suited for use with bifurcation aneurysms where the neck of the aneurysm is typically axially aligned with the direction of approach see for example and . Where the spherical cage structure is intended to be used with lateral aneurysms it may be desirable to use the spherical cage configuration shown in where flow restricting face is disposed to one side of the axis of approach.

If desired installation tool can be provided with a gripper mechanism to releasably secure expandable spherical structure to installation tool e.g. so as to releasably secure expandable spherical structure to installation tool until after expandable spherical structure has been advanced to the therapy site and has returned to its enlarged configuration so that it is ready to be left at the therapy site. This gripper mechanism ensures complete control of expandable spherical structure as it is moved out of the installation tool and erected within the body and also facilitates more precise positioning e.g. with proper rotation etc. of the expandable structure against the side wall of the body lumen.

More particularly and looking now at installation tool may be provided with a plurality of spring grippers . Spring grippers are disposed within lumen of sleeve exterior to pusher . Each spring gripper is formed so that when a bowed portion of the spring gripper is restrained within lumen a hook portion of that spring gripper holds annular ring of expandable spherical structure to the distal end of pusher . However when pusher is advanced to the point where bowed portion of spring gripper is no longer restrained within lumen hook portion of spring gripper moves outboard so as to release annular ring of expandable spherical structure from the distal end of pusher . Thus it will be seen that spring grippers may be used to releasably secure expandable spherical structure to installation tool until after the expandable spherical structure has been advanced out of the distal end of the installation tool and returned to its enlarged configuration. This arrangement can provide the clinician with increased control as expandable spherical structure is deployed within the blood vessel.

As noted above expandable spherical structure of FIGS. and is well suited for use with bifurcation aneurysms where the neck of the aneurysm is typically axially aligned with the direction of approach see for example and . Where the spherical cage structure is intended to be used with lateral aneurysms it may be desirable to use the spherical cage configuration shown in where closed face is disposed to one side of the axis of approach.

If desired installation tool can be provided with an expansion balloon for expanding the expandable spherical structure from its reduced configuration to its enlarged configuration. More particularly and looking now at installation tool may be provided with sleeve and pusher as discussed above. In addition installation tool may be provided with an expansion balloon . Expansion balloon is supported on an inflation rod which is movably disposed within pusher . Expansion balloon is in its deflated condition disposed internal to open frame of expandable spherical structure . As a result of this construction installation tool may receive expandable spherical structure while the expandable spherical structure is in its reduced configuration carry the expandable spherical structure to the desired therapy site position the expandable spherical structure at the desired location and then expand expansion balloon so as to open the expandable spherical structure to its enlarged configuration. Expansion balloon may then be deflated and withdrawn from the interior of expandable spherical structure . It will be appreciated that providing installation tool with an expansion balloon may be advantageous where expandable spherical structure does not self erect within the body lumen.

In flow restricting face of expandable spherical structure is depicted as a closed face in the sense that flow restricting face comprises a substantially complete surface or barrier which is capable of closing off and or very significantly reducing flow to an aneurysm or other opening in the side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or for reinforcing a weakness in the side wall of the blood vessel or other body lumen. However it should be appreciated that for many applications flow restricting face need not comprise a substantially complete surface or barrier i.e. flow restricting face may be formed with a face having a sufficiently high strut density to form an effectively closed face or to otherwise achieve a desired purpose. Thus for example in there is shown an expandable spherical structure comprising an open frame having a flow restricting face formed with a high strut density such that blood flow to the aneurysm will be restricted and the aneurysm will thrombose. In this circumstance flow restricting face may be considered to be effectively closed. Furthermore where flow restricting face is being used to reinforce a weakness in a side wall as opposed to being used to restrict flow to an opening in a side wall closed face may have a somewhat lower strut density since it does not need to significantly restrict the flow of a fluid.

It should also be appreciated that it is possible to form the entire expandable spherical structure out of a single superelastic wire e.g. a shape memory alloy constructed so as to form stress induced martensite at body temperatures. By way of example but not limitation an appropriately blended and treated Nitinol wire may be used. In this form of the invention the expandable spherical structure can be i deformed into a collapsed configuration wherein a single path of the wire is constrained within a restraining cannula and ii thereafter reformed in situ by simply pushing the wire out of the distal end of the restraining cannula whereupon expandable spherical structure reforms in the blood vessel or other body lumen. This form of the invention is particularly well suited to constructions where flow restricting face is formed with a single patterned strut arranged to have a high strut density e.g. with a strut density sufficiently high to restrict flow to the mouth of an aneurysm and or a strut density sufficiently high to reinforce the side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or a strut density sufficiently high to achieve some other desired purpose. See for example which show flow restricting face formed out of a single patterned strut where the strut pattern may comprise one or more of a variety of configurations e.g. with parallel paths concentric paths switchback paths serpentine paths etc.

As noted above conventional minimally invasive techniques for treating brain aneurysms generally involve depositing thrombosis inducing coils within the dome of the aneurysm. If desired the expandable spherical structure of the present invention may be used in conjunction with thrombosis inducing coils i.e. the thrombosis inducing coils may be deposited within the dome of an aneurysm after positioning the expandable spherical structure against the mouth of the aneurysm so as to restrict flow into the aneurysm i.e. by introducing the thrombosis inducing coils through the face having a high strut density and into the dome of the aneurysm. Alternatively the thrombosis inducing coils may be deposited within the dome of the aneurysm before positioning the expandable spherical structure against the mouth of the aneurysm so as to restrict flow into the aneurysm. Significantly it is believed that this approach will both facilitate thrombosis formation and also prevent coil migration out of the aneurysm.

It should also be appreciated that expandable spherical structure may be deployed within the body of an aneurysm so that its flow restricting face confronts the lumen rather than being within the lumen so that its flow restricting face confronts the body of the aneurysm. See for example which show the expandable spherical structure of deployed within the body of the aneurysm. See also for example which show the expandable spherical structure of being disposed within the body of the aneurysm.

Again the expandable spherical structure may be positioned within the interior of a lateral aneurysm and or it may be disposed within a bifurcated aneurysm and .

It is also possible to provide expandable spherical structure with stabilizing legs. Such a construction may be adapted for use with both lateral aneurysms and with bifurcation aneurysms.

More particularly and looking now at there is shown an expandable spherical structure which comprises an open frame with a flow restricting face . Extending out of open frame are one or more stabilizing legs . Stabilizing legs are formed so that when flow restricting face is positioned against the side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen stabilizing legs extend endoluminally through the blood vessel or other body lumen. Thus it will be appreciated that the expandable spherical structure shown in is generally intended to be used with a lateral aneurysm since the center axis of stabilizing legs is set at a right angle to the center axis of flow restricting face see .

Preferably and as seen in stabilizing legs together form a somewhat cone shaped structure so that the overall shape of open frame with flow restricting face and stabilizing legs is a generally comet shaped structure.

As seen in this comet shaped structure may be compressed within a containment sheath with stabilizing legs leading and with open frame with flow restricting face trailing and with a push catheter and tension wire engaging open frame of expandable spherical structure . At the aneurysm site push catheter ejects the comet shaped structure legs first so that closed face restricts access to the mouth of the aneurysm while stabilizing legs help maintain the position of open frame and flow restricting face within the blood vessel. This deployment procedure is preferably conducted over a guidewire .

If the comet shaped structure subsequently needs to be repositioned or removed from a deployment site tension wire may be used to pull the comet shaped structure retrograde e.g. within the blood vessel or all the way back into containment sheath . To this end and looking now at open frame of expandable spherical structure may comprise a proximal end ring and tension wire may comprise an expandable head adapted to extend through proximal end ring and then expand whereupon the comet shaped structure may be moved retrograde. Alternatively open frame of expandable spherical structure may comprise an apex of converging wires which can be gripped by a J hook formed on the distal end of tension wire or by C fingers formed on the distal end of tension wire .

If desired and looking now at the distal ends of stabilizing legs may be turned into eyelets so as to minimize trauma during both placement and repositioning to the side wall of the body lumen e.g. blood vessel in which they are disposed.

It will be appreciated that where flow restricting face covers only a portion of the circumference of open frame it can be important for the clinician to ensure the rotational disposition of the comet shaped structure so that flow restricting face is properly aligned with the mouth of the lateral aneurysm. For this reason and looking now at push catheter may include a plurality of slits on its distal end which receive the constituent wires of open frame whereby to permit the clinician to adjust the rotational disposition of the comet shaped structure and hence the rotational disposition of flow restricting face of open frame . Alternatively and looking now at push catheter may be formed with an obround shape or any other appropriate non circular shape so as to permit the clinician to specify the rotational disposition of the comet shaped structure and hence the rotational disposition of flow restricting face of open frame .

Looking now at flow restricting face of open frame can be formed by wrapping a membrane over the wire skeleton making up open frame and securing it in position. Thus show membrane covering only a portion of the circumference of frame and show membrane covering the complete circumference of frame .

In the foregoing description the expandable spherical structure of is discussed in the context of a legs first deployment into the blood vessel or other body lumen. However it should also be appreciated that the expandable spherical structure of may be deployed head first into the blood vessel or other body lumen i.e. with stabilizing legs trailing open frame .

Looking next at it is also possible to provide a comet shaped structure which can be used with a bifurcation aneurysm. More particularly in this form of the invention expandable spherical structure is formed so that center axis of flow restricting face is aligned with center axis of stabilizing legs . It will be appreciated that where the comet shaped structure is to be used with to treat a bifurcation aneurysm it is generally desirable that the head of the comet which comprises flow restricting face be ejected out of containment sheath first with stabilizing legs trailing whereby to easily place flow restricting face against the mouth of the aneurysm.

In the preceding description expandable spherical structure is described as comprising an open frame having a flow restricting face carried thereon. More particularly in some embodiments of the invention flow restricting face comprises a substantially complete surface or barrier. See for example . However in other embodiments of the invention flow restricting face need not comprise a substantially complete surface or barrier i.e. flow restricting face may be formed with a face having a sufficiently high strut density to form an effectively closed face or to otherwise achieve a desired purpose. Thus for example in there is shown an expandable spherical structure comprising an open frame having a flow restricting face formed with a high strut density such that blood flow to the aneurysm will be restricted and the aneurysm will thrombose. In this circumstance flow restricting face may be considered to be effectively closed in the sense that flow restricting face is sufficiently closed to decrease flow velocity in the aneurysm and result in thrombosis within the aneurysm. Furthermore where flow restricting face is being used to reinforce a weakness in a side wall as opposed to being used to close off an opening in a side wall or to otherwise restrict flow through that opening flow restricting face may have a somewhat lower strut density. In any case however flow restricting face will still have a significantly higher strut density than that of open frame .

In the preceding description it was noted that it is possible to form the entire expandable spherical structure out of a single superelastic wire e.g. a shape memory alloy constructed so as to form stress induced martensite at body temperatures. It was also noted that in this form of the invention the expandable spherical structure can be i deformed into a collapsed configuration wherein a single path of the wire is constrained within a constraining cannula and ii thereafter reformed in situ by simply pushing the wire out of the distal end of the restraining cannula whereupon expandable spherical structure reforms in the blood vessel or other body lumen. It was further noted that this form of the invention is particularly well suited to constructions wherein closed face is formed with a single patterned strut arranged to have a high strut density e.g. with a strut density sufficiently high to restrict the flow of blood through the mouth of an aneurysm i.e. to cause thrombosis of the aneurysm and or a strut density sufficiently high to reinforce the side wall of a blood vessel or other body lumen and or a strut density sufficiently high to achieve some other desired purpose. Again however flow restricting face will still have a significantly higher strut density than that of open frame . See for example which show flow restricting face formed out of a single patterned strut where the strut pattern may comprise one or more of a variety of configurations e.g. with parallel paths concentric paths switchback patterns serpentine paths etc.

In accordance with the present invention there is now disclosed a further construction wherein expandable spherical structure is formed out of a closed loop of filament such as highly flexible wire e.g. Nitinol which has been worked e.g. on a mandrel so that its numerous turns approximate the shape of a sphere or ellipsoid when the loop is in its relaxed condition. One face of the sphere i.e. flow restricting face has a higher turn density than the remainder of the sphere i.e. open frame so that the high density face can restrict blood flow while the remainder of the sphere easily passes blood flow. The closed loop of filament may be transformed from its spherical shape into another shape by applying physical forces e.g. tension to the closed loop of filament. Thus the closed loop of filament may be transformed from its three dimensional substantially spherical configuration into a substantially two dimensional elongated loop configuration e.g. by applying two opposing forces to the interior of the loop in order that the closed loop of filament may be advanced endoluminally to the site of an aneurysm. Once at the site of the aneurysm the tension on the elongated loop may be released so that the closed loop of filament returns to its spherical shape whereby to lodge in the blood vessel with the high density face i.e. flow restricting face diverting the flow of blood away from the aneurysm i.e. to cause thrombosis within the aneurysm while the remainder of the sphere i.e. open frame easily passes blood flowing through the parent vessel. If the sphere subsequently needs to be re positioned within the blood vessel the tension is re applied to the sphere so as to transform it part or all the way back to its elongated loop configuration the position of the device is adjusted and then the foregoing process repeated so as to set the sphere at a new position within the blood vessel. Furthermore if the sphere needs to be removed from the blood vessel the tension is re applied to the sphere so as to transform it back to its elongated loop configuration and then the loop is removed from the patient. Significantly this construction has the advantages of i ease of positioning ii reliably maintaining its deployed position within the vessel iii ease of re positioning within the body and iv where necessary removal from the body.

By way of example but not limitation shows a expandable spherical structure which is formed out of a closed loop of highly flexible wire. As can be seen in expandable spherical structure approximates the shape of a sphere or ellipsoid when the loop is in its relaxed condition. shows expandable spherical structure being used to restrict blood flow to a lateral aneurysm. show expandable spherical structure being used to restrict blood flow to a bifurcation aneurysm.

In use and as shown in inserter is set so that its outer catheter is adjacent to bifurcated distal end and then a segment of the closed loop expandable spherical structure is seated in bifurcated distal end and another segment of the closed loop expandable spherical structure is seated in mount of outer catheter . Then outer catheter is moved proximally so that the closed loop expandable spherical structure is reconfigured from its relaxed spherical or elliptical configuration into an elongated loop configuration e.g. in the manner of a tensioned elastic band. With the closed loop expandable spherical structure held in this elongated condition on inserter a transport sheath is optionally be placed over the assembly. Inserter with its passenger closed loop expandable spherical structure and with its overlying transport sheath is moved through the patient s anatomy until spherical structure is located at the surgical site. Then transport sheath is removed and outer catheter is moved distally on inner catheter . As outer catheter is moved distally on inner catheter tension on expandable spherical structure is released so that expandable spherical structure can re assume its spherical or elliptical shape and engage the adjacent anatomy. Then expandable spherical structure is disengaged from inserter and inserter is removed from the surgical site.

If after deployment the closed loop expandable spherical structure needs to be re positioned within the blood vessel inserter is used to re apply tension to the sphere so as to transform the sphere part or all the way back to its loop configuration the position of the device is adjusted and then the foregoing process is repeated so as to set the sphere at a new position within the blood vessel.

Furthermore if after deployment the closed loop expandable spherical structure needs to be removed from the blood vessel inserter is used to re apply tension to the sphere so as to transform it back to its loop configuration and then the loop is removed from the patient.

Significantly this construction has the advantages of i ease of positioning ii reliably maintaining its deployed position within the vessel iii ease of re positioning within the body and iv where necessary removal from the body.

In the foregoing disclosure expandable spherical structure is described as comprising a spherical body. In this regard it should be appreciated that the term spherical is intended to mean a true spherical shape and or a substantially spherical shape and or a near spherical shape including but not limited to an ellipsoid shape or a substantially ellipsoid shape or a near ellipsoid shape and or an effectively spherical shape and or a generally spherical shape and or a polyhedron which approximates a sphere and or a shape which approximates a sphere and or a structure comprising a substantial portion of any of the foregoing and or a structure comprising a combination of any of the foregoing etc.

Thus for example expandable spherical structure may include a first section that constitutes a portion of a sphere and a second section which roughly approximates the remaining portion of a sphere.

It will be appreciated that still further embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the present invention is by no means limited to the particular constructions herein disclosed and or shown in the drawings but also comprises any modifications or equivalents within the scope of the invention.

