---

title: Transferring structural loads and displacements between analysis and design software
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including computer program products, for receiving in a Computer Aided Design (CAD) tool result information and load information from a first analysis program, the result information determined by performing an analysis of a plurality of physical elements in a CAD model. And providing one or more of the result information or the load information from the CAD tool to a second analysis program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315840&OS=08315840&RS=08315840
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 08315840
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100527
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 345 436 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 788 068 entitled Method for Transferring Structural Loads and Displacements Between Analysis and Design Software filed on Jan. 31 2006 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Computer aided design CAD software is often used to prepare a CAD model or models representing a structure such as a building. The CAD model can incorporate representations of physical elements such as columns beams and the like that will be included in the structure. Drawings prepared from such a CAD model can be used in the actual physical construction of the corresponding structure. The CAD model may be prepared and edited by various individuals including architects and structural engineers.

As part of a design stage or after a design is completed a structural analysis is typically performed on a structure. Structural analysis can include the computation of deformations deflections or internal forces on and within solid and non solid structures based on information such as a structure s geometry applied loads and material properties of physical elements making up the structure. Result information incorporates results from performing the structural analysis and can incorporate for example displacements axial forces bending moments shear forces stresses load reaction information and other information. Result information can also incorporate a history of result information over time.

Load information incorporates a representation of one or more applied loads. An applied load is a force or forces applied to a component of a structure or to the structure as a whole. There are different types of applied loads. Commonly used applied loads can include constant loads known as dead loads e.g. the weight of equipment materials static loads known as live loads which typically represent a one time maximum varying load on a structure e.g. the weight of occupancy automobile or foot traffic loads proportional to exposed surface areas known as environmental loads e.g. snow load wind load rain load and dynamic loads. Dynamic loads typically involve dynamic effects such as from waves ice flow wind gusts and earthquake motion. An applied load can be represented as a combination of different load types. Moreover load information can represent a history of applied loads over time such as might be caused by applying an earthquake ground motion to the foundation of a building.

Conventional analysis programs tools plugins or other suitable processes hereinafter programs receive as input by way of import or user creation an analytical representation of a structure and optionally load information. Load information can be provided to an analysis program and or derived by the analysis program. For example often material dead loads such as the weight of beams and columns are automatically calculated by the analysis program while environmental loads are input by the user. An analytical representation of a structure is different than a representation of the physical elements e.g. columns beams etc. It is an idealized mathematical model that may represent only a portion of a building such as one wing or one floor or one frame of the building. For example an analytical representation may be a wire frame representation of the physical elements and the wire frame elements can include or have associated properties e.g. weight materials moment of inertia cross sectional area member connectivity and or end conditions e.g. pinned free fixed . Typically the analytical representation is prepared separately and can be used for other types of analyses that are performed in the design stage.

The analytical representation can be subjected to applied load simulation and the like in an analysis program to identify for example stress levels in the various elements. See e.g. . On the basis of the analysis elements may be modified e.g. resized or other properties changed and the modified analytical representation reanalyzed. A commonly used approach to performing structural analysis is the finite element approach which is a numerical method that models a structure as a discrete system with a finite number of elements interconnected at a finite number of nodes.

Depending on the structure and type of analyses required multiple analysis programs commonly need to be used. For example special foundation analysis programs may be used to analyze different foundation configurations or variations in soil properties. Additionally there are other programs used to analyze specialized structures such as billboards or towers that are located on the tops of buildings. Results from one analysis are often iteratively used in another analysis. For example the combination of wind and dead loads on a building can propagate through a structure and produce resultant loads on the foundation. Those loads may be used as input to a foundation analysis program. The results of the foundation analysis may have the consequence of changing the design or the analytical model of the design and the cycle of building and foundation analyses is commenced again.

Any change to the size or location i.e. displacement of physical members or their applied loading typically needs to be manually updated between the multiple analysis and design programs. For example foundation reactions from a seismic analysis of the structure are commonly transcribed and used as input for a foundation analysis program. The effort and coordination involved with synchronizing these displacements and loadings between programs can be significant. Any out of synch issues could result in an inadequate design being taken to construction.

This specification describes systems techniques and computer programs for transferring load and result information between structural analysis and design programs.

In one general aspect the techniques feature receiving in a CAD tool result information and load information from a first analysis program the result information determined by performing an analysis of a plurality of physical elements in a CAD model. One or more of the result information or the load information is provided from the CAD tool to a second analysis program.

The invention can be implemented to include one or more of the following advantageous features. The CAD model is associated with the CAD tool. Incorporating one or more of the result information or the load information into the CAD model. The first analysis program or the second analysis program can be invoked. The load information incorporates a representation of one or more applied loads. The load information incorporates a history of applied loads over time. The result information incorporates one or more of a displacements an axial force a bending moment a shear force a stress or load reaction information. The result information incorporates a history of results over time.

In another general aspect the techniques feature receiving in a CAD tool one or more displacements from a first analysis program the one or more displacements based on performing an analysis of a plurality of physical elements in a CAD model including applying one or more loads to the plurality of physical elements. One or more of the one or more displacements or one or more loads from the CAD tool is provided to a second analysis program.

The invention can be implemented to include one or more of the following advantageous features. The CAD model is associated with the CAD tool. The one or more displacements and the one or more loads are incorporated into the CAD model. One or more of the first analysis program or the second analysis program are invoked. The one or more loads incorporates a history of applied loads over time. The one or more displacements incorporates a history of displacements over time.

Implementations of the invention can realize one or more of the following advantages. A physical representation a corresponding analytical representation load information and result information can be integrated in a single CAD model. Each analysis program can use information in the CAD model modify information in the CAD model and add information to the CAD model. Results from an analysis by one analysis program can be easily provided to other analysis programs. Load and result information can be maintained and coordinated between multiple analysis and design programs. Various structural analysis programs can be used and other types of analysis can be performed including concrete design analysis lateral load analysis gravity load analysis beam design analysis steel design analysis dynamic analysis seismic analysis and steel connection design analysis.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Although a graphical user interface GUI is illustrated other user interfaces are possible including user interfaces that allow for user interaction by means of sound voice gesture eye movement use of remote control devices manually controlled devices and combinations of these. The user interface can be provided on a number of computing devices including but not limited to devices such as a workstations personal computers cellular telephones personal digital assistants portable video playback devices combinations of these and other suitable devices. In one implementation the user interface can be presented as one or more web pages. By way of illustration the CAD tool can execute on one or more computing devices connected by one or more wired or wireless networks shared memory inter processor networks or other suitable means. A computing device can run a proprietary or commercially available multi tasking operating system such as without limitation Microsoft Windows XP available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. Linux available from www.lixuxlinux.org and Apple OS X available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. .

The user interface illustrated in can present one or more views of one or more models. A three dimensional 3D view presents a physical representation of a CAD model of a building. The view can be used to create and modify the physical representation . The physical representation depicts physical elements of the building represented by the CAD model including without limitation beams braces floors slabs columns walls and isolated and continuous footings. In one implementation and by way of illustration the user interface includes a view panel which allows a user to select views and display one or multiple views in the user interface . The view panel includes but is not limited to two dimensional 2D and 3D views plans elevations sectional views analytical views and combinations of these. View shows a CAD model of a building section having beams and and footings and . Physical elements can be associated with attributes. In one implementation physical element attributes include without limitation geometry location weight cross sectional area construction materials reference to one or more corresponding analytical elements and other suitable properties. Attribute values can be specified by the user or provided by default.

In one implementation the analytical elements are automatically connected to one another to form a wire frame representation of the CAD model. In one implementation a predetermined type of analytical element corresponds to a particular type or types of physical elements. Thus when generating an analytical representation corresponding to the physical representation analytical elements corresponding to physical elements can be created accordingly. In one implementation an analytical element has a default position in relation to the analytical element s corresponding physical element s . See Table 1 For example a physical element representing a column has a corresponding analytical element that is a line that runs through the center of the column location.

As the analytical representation is generated in parallel with the physical representation connections between physical elements cause connections to be made between analytical elements. In some instances the location of an analytical element is deviated from the default location so that that the analytical element may connect to another analytical element. As a result an analytical element may be partially coincident with or incongruous to a corresponding physical element. In one implementation connections between analytical elements maintain coherence in the analytical representation. Coherence takes into account the probable location of finite element analysis nodes on analytical elements e.g. for structural analysis and guides connections between analytical elements to these locations. A node is a point at which different elements are joined together and where values of unknowns can be approximated. By way of illustration if the analytical representation of a physical element representing a beam is attached at one end to the surface of a physical element representing a column the corresponding analytical element representing the beam which is a line centered on the top surface of the physical element representing the beam will pass through the physical element representing the column to connect with the analytical element representing the column which is a line located at the center of the column .

Default analytical element locations and coherence requirements can be described by rules or information which can be created and modified by the user or by an analysis program. In one implementation coherence of the analytical representation is not a prerequisite to performing structural analysis of the CAD model. In one implementation the default location and connectivity of an analytical element can be overridden by the user.

The analytical representation can include without limitation the following attributes geometry location moments of inertia sheer capacity connectivity or end conditions e.g. pinned fixed free material properties reference to one or more corresponding physical elements and release conditions. Attribute values can be specified by a user or provided by default. In one implementation default attribute values can be determined based on heuristics informed by for example and without limitation the user s past interaction with the CAD model the materials and geometries of the physical elements building codes historical weather patterns for a given location and the purpose of the structure e.g. office hospital school condominium parking garage etc. .

When an attribute of an analytical element is modified the corresponding physical element can be adjusted to reflect the modification. In one implementation when an analytical element attribute is changed analytical elements that are connected to the analytical element are adjusted if necessary to maintain coherency. For instance if the user moved the location of an analytical element representing a horizontal beam then analytical elements connected to the moved analytical element would be moved or resized accordingly in order to maintain their coherent connection to the beam. In one implementation changing the location or size of an analytical element does not change the location of the analytical element s corresponding physical element.

Referring again to the analytical view includes analytical elements representing columns and a beam connecting the columns . A 2D elevation view of the physical representation of the section shows the corresponding physical elements and . Changes made to physical element attributes can be automatically reflected in corresponding analytical elements and vice versa. In one implementation changing the location of an analytical element does not cause the corresponding physical element to change its location. This allows a user to manipulate the analytical representation to capture eccentricities such as a torque or turning not manifest in the physical representation.

In one implementation structural analysis of a CAD model or portions thereof can be initiated from the CAD tool as shown in . Users can select an analysis program to invoke for example by selecting the Tools External Tools menu item in the user interface and then selecting the Send Model to . . . menu item . This selection causes a list identifying one or more analysis programs to be presented from which the user can chose a desired program. This analysis program is then invoked if it is not already running and CAD model information e.g. a physical representation an analytical representation and analytical information is transferred to the analysis program. The analysis program can optionally present its own user interface e.g. in in combination with the user interface or by itself.

In one implementation after the analysis program has completed its function or while it is performing its function the analysis program can then update the CAD model with changes to element properties and analysis information i.e. load information and or result information . This integrated model capability allows analysis programs to share information and build on the results of earlier invoked analysis programs.

Users have the option of selecting a number of physical or analytical elements before invoking an analysis program. In which case the program can either perform its analysis on the selected elements or give users the option to perform analysis on the full model. An analysis program can also provide users with the ability to select which element types are to be analyzed.

The analysis program can optionally prompt users to provide additional input that is not available in the transferred CAD model information such as by presenting a dialog box whereby a user can specify the information or the information s location. Users can optionally also select which elements whose properties are modified by the analysis program are to be automatically updated in the CAD model. For example the analysis program might change the thickness and position of columns in a physical representation.

In another implementation the analysis program does not have to persist its results in the CAD model. Instead an analysis program might store results in its own database or CAD model. Users can import such information into the CAD model using the Update Model from . . . menu item .

Finally . illustrates the central load reaction being distributed again between the columns and that support the beam . The load reactions will propagate to the foundation as before and the analysis program can accumulate all of the loads that are applied to any member so that for the foundations and a total load can be the sum of the distribution of all the reactions in the structure.

Load information and or result information that are determined by the analysis program can be provided to the CAD tool. By way of illustration if a user wants to design a foundation e.g. calculate the size of the foundation and the reinforcement inside the user can use another analysis program perhaps from a different software publisher that will extract the foundation information and load reactions calculated by the first analysis program. The user does not have to manually transfer the output of the first analysis program to the second analysis program. This is done automatically. As such time is saved and errors that could result from manual manipulation of the data are avoided.

When the user invokes an analysis program or from the CAD tool the CAD tool can transfer CAD model information to the selected analysis program by way of a transfer engine . Alternatively the analysis program can access the CAD model itself by way of transfer engine and obtain the information needed to perform the analysis. As analysis is being performed or during analysis analysis results are transferred to the CAD model by way of transfer engine as initiated by the invoked analysis program or by the CAD tool . In one implementation transfer engine is a programming interface or protocol incorporating functionality for transferring information between the CAD tool and one or multiple analysis programs. The analysis programs and the CAD tool can execute on the same computing device or on different computing devices connected by one or more shared or private computer networks shared memory combinations of these or other suitable means.

An analysis program can maintain a concurrent database which can be used to store information that users can add or modify inside the analysis application. In one implementation every element in the CAD model has a unique element identifier ID . This ID can be used by the analysis program to correlate data in the CAD model with data in the database . A synchronization process may be required to insure that when the analysis application is invoked that data in the database accurately reflects the data in the CAD model . For example the user may have added removed or changed elements in the CAD model .

In one implementation the user interface propagates information pertaining to changes the user makes to the CAD model through one or more views to a change engine . The change engine accepts this information and uses it to maintain synchronization between the analytical representation and the physical representation of the CAD model . For example if a user moves a physical element the change engine moves the corresponding analytical element s as necessary to maintain coherence in the analytical representation. Likewise changes to attributes made in one representation are reflected in the other by the change engine . The change engine generates the analytical representation as the user interactively generates or edits the physical representation.

Analysis of a physical or analytical representation in the CAD model can be initiated by the analysis component . In one implementation the analysis component invokes one or more analysis programs as a result of selection of menu item in user interface for example. An analysis program can be invoked through an application programming interface API . The API communicates with an analysis program through a service provider interface SPI such as and . In one implementation each analysis program implements the SPI. The API and the SPIs can implement a communication protocol that exchanges information using memory buffers shared memory dynamically linked libraries network communication mechanisms or other suitable means including more than one of these.

In one implementation an API and an SPI are instantiations of objects. An API object s methods invoke an SPI object s methods or vice versa in order to transfer model information and perform analysis. For example an analysis program may need to obtain CAD model information or otherwise convert CAD model information into a format suitable for analysis. In a further implementation the API can cause an analysis program to present a GUI through which the user can monitor and control the analysis. In another implementation an analysis program can read and write information to the CAD model e.g. through an SPI or other suitable means .

The analysis program or the user of the analysis program can change attributes of both physical and analytical elements in the CAD model . For example the size of elements can be increased to accommodate loads. In one implementation physical and analytical element attributes can be recognized by the structural analysis programs . These changes to element attributes and or analysis information are in one implementation automatically incorporated into the CAD model directly or indirectly e.g. by importing information from an analysis program thereby making the changes immediately available for viewing in the user interface . In this way multiple analysis programs can share information.

The system may have fewer or more components than those illustrated in . A given component can execute on one or more communicably coupled computing devices. For instance computing devices can be connected by a wired network a wireless network the Internet shared memory an inter processor communication channel or combinations of these.

The invention and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The invention can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification including the method steps of the invention can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus of the invention can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the invention can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The invention can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. a data server a middleware component e.g. an application server or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the invention or any combination of such back end middleware and front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments but other embodiments can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the operations of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be preferable. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims

