---

title: Providing relevant information based on data space activity items
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for providing relevant information based on data space activity items are described herein. Data space activity items of a user are identified while the user is working through an application. Several context elements relevant to each data space activity item are then determined. Content locations are searched to find content items relevant to the context elements. The content items are then ranked to determine relevant information. The relevant information can be accessed by the user when required.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08200666&OS=08200666&RS=08200666
owner: SAP AG
number: 08200666
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100614
---
The field relates generally to search methodologies for providing relevant information. More particularly the field is related to a method and system for providing relevant information based on a user s activity space in a software application.

In general software applications try to assist users while working through a task or a process. Typically a help catalog can be accessed to find information relevant to a particular task or process a user is currently interested in. In the case of complex software applications such as business or process related applications users may need to search for relevant information that may be required to complete a task. Users spend considerable amount of time to create and refine search strings or queries to narrow down search results. However the context in which the search is taking place may not be determined or considered in the search and therefore the most relevant information may not be retrieved despite considerable effort. Furthermore even if users may know the type of information required they may be unsure about how to access that information because such information may need to be accessed from a separate application. Providing information to a user that is most relevant to a current context with minimal intervention from the user would be desirable.

Various embodiments of providing relevant information based on data space activity items are described herein. While a user is working through a software application data space activity items of the user are identified. Several context elements relevant to each data space activity item are then determined. Content locations are searched to find content items relevant to the context elements. In one aspect the content locations can be part of the accessed application. In another aspect the content locations may also include applications that are external to the accessed application. The content items are then ranked to determine relevant information. This process of obtaining relevant information is performed without user intervention. Finally the relevant information is displayed on the user s request.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for providing relevant information based on data space activity items are described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The data space activity items are contextually sub divided by an information processing engine . Specifically the information processing engine determines context elements of each data space activity item . The information processing engine is interfaced with multiple content locations . The content locations can be within the application that is currently being used by the user or external applications that may be related to application currently being used. For example the application currently being used may be a functionality of SAP s EPM solutions and the external applications can be other functionalities of the EPM solutions. Some of the functionalities in SAP s EPM include Planning and Consolidation Strategy Management and Profitability and Cost Management. The content locations can be document stores or repositories in the applications.

The information processing engine searches the content locations to find content items relevant to the context elements. In one embodiment the information processing engine includes a search federator. The content items can be of any form or type of information that is present in the content locations. For example the content items can be documents reports and user data. The information processing engine then ranks the content to determine the most relevant information. The relevant information is then made accessible to the user at .

The context elements for the process item can be about the nature or type of the process and the step in the process in which the user is currently in. The context elements for the current view item can be about relational data elements which can have information about the database to which the user is connected to intersection in a data cube and key performance indicator. User identity groups to which the user belongs and role of the user can be the context elements for the user information item .

After the context elements are determined content locations are searched at to find content items relevant to the context elements. In one embodiment the content items can be ranked at by first assigning weights indicative of the degree of relevancy. At a given stage while accessing the application multiple context elements can be determined. Weights can be assigned to the content items based on the number of matches a content item has with the context element. The content items can then be ranked starting from maximum weight to minimum weight. Therefore the most relevant information is the content item with maximum weight and highest or top ranking Relevant and irrelevant information items can therefore be determined based on their rank. Content items with top few ranks e.g. content item and content item can have the relevant information needed for the user. In one embodiment irrelevant information i.e. items beyond a certain rank can be eliminated at . The relevant information can be accessed by the user at when required.

Referring to an embodiment of a procedure for providing relevant information is described using a financial planning scenario as an example. A user can access a business or financial planning application to perform several tasks related to a company. For example a user can access the planning application to perform budget related tasks. Initially the user may be required to log in to access the planning application . The user can select a budgeting process in the planning application. The user can then be directed to a main page as shown in where the user can be presented with an overview of the budgeting process and information about steps in the budgeting process .

The budgeting process can include a main step and sub steps under the main step. The main step can include Initialize Budget. The sub steps include for example Review Strategic Objectives Review Initiatives Review Targets Allocate Targets Report on Allocated Budget Enter Manual Adjustments Submit for Approval Approve Allocated Budget and Mark Step Complete. The sub steps may not need to be performed in the same order as specified above. Also the sub steps can be optional and some processes may not include sub steps.

After the user selects the main step the data space activity items can be identified. The data space activity items can include an application item a process item a current view item and a user information item. The context elements for each data space activity item at the main step are then determined. Below is the list of data space activity items and their respective context elements 

A context element for the application item can include the type of application i.e. a planning application element. A context element for the process item can include the type of the process i.e. a budget element because a budgeting process is selected by the user. Context elements for the current view item can include relational data elements pertaining to the current view i.e. the main step view where budgeting of an entity is being initialized for a particular year. Therefore the context elements for the current view item can include an entity element a time dimension element and a category element. The entity element can be a name of a particular business or a segment of a business. The time dimension element can be referring to a current year quarter or month. The category element can also include the budget element in this case because the main step is Initialize Budget. These context elements for the current view can represent at an intersection in a data cube. The context elements for the user information item can include name of the user role of the user and group to which the user belongs to.

The user may perform some actions or tasks if any in the main step. The user may then select a sub step. For example the user can select Review Initiatives sub step . A list of available tasks for the Review Initiatives sub step can be displayed in the user interface as shown in . The user may perform tasks required for completing the sub step . Depending on the sub step all or some tasks can be optional. For example some sub steps may be related to review of information and may not require any input from the user. In Review Initiatives sub step key performance indicators KPI and their details can be viewed for a selected time period and a selected product group . Some of the key performance indicators include for example market share service cost and days to manufacture a product.

At this point i.e. at the Review Initiatives sub step new context elements are determined for the process item and the current view item in addition to the context elements determined at the main step. The context elements at this sub step are shown below 

The additional context elements for the process item can be about a step of the process i.e. Review Initiatives sub step . Therefore the context elements can be a review element and an initiatives element. The additional context elements for the current view item can include a product dimension element because details about a selected product group are being viewed.

At any stage while accessing the application the user may feel the need for relevant information to proceed further. For example the user may want to have relevant information about budget requirements format of the budget contact person for any questions or competitors activities in similar products. An icon can be provided on the user interface for accessing the relevant information. Such relevant information can be obtained by searching content locations using the context elements without user interaction as described previously in reference to .

Referring to the relevant information at the Review Initiatives sub step can be obtained by using the context elements determined at the Review Initiatives sub step . The user can request the relevant information by clicking on the icon . The relevant information can then be displayed to the user. In one embodiment the relevant information can be grouped according to their type such as related documents related actions and related people.

Each content item obtained by searching content locations may match one or more context elements. As an example for related documents a budget document i.e. a content item of a previous year is typically a review of planning and budget of the previous year. Therefore a search using the planning element the budget element and the review element can retrieve the budget document from a content location within the planning application . The budget document of the previous year therefore has three matches with the context elements at the Review Initiatives sub step . The budget document can be opened in a default program or may be rendered in the user interface . Documents that are restricted for the user who is accessing the application are not retrieved. The content locations in can enforce this security feature depending on the user.

Several content items can be obtained by searching the content locations using the context elements determined at the Review Initiatives sub step . Weights are assigned to the content items based on the number of exact matches with the context elements. For example content items that match only one context item can be assigned a lower weight compared to content items with three matches e.g. the budget document that has three matches . The content items can then be ranked starting from maximum weight to minimum weight. Only content items from first rank to nrank can be provided to the user. In one embodiment a system administrator or a user preference can configure the number of content items to be provided after ranking

To find related people such as owners or responsible person the application item and the current view items can be used. Owners with respect to the current view item s context elements e.g. the product element the entity element and the product element can be searched across all content locations. The content items i.e. the owners can be ranked based on their match or association with any other context element. For example because one of the context elements includes the planning application element the owners matching with the planning application can be more relevant and therefore assigned top or higher rank. A product owner an entity owner and a budget approval owner can be obtained and displayed to the user. The user can then access the owners by clicking on their name. In one embodiment an e mail an instant messenger session or a request for assistance can be automatically sent to the owner.

An example for related actions can be about competitive analysis. There may be some publicly available information about competitors activities that can be used when creating a budget. The planning budget product and time elements at the Review Initiatives sub step can be used to form a competitive analysis query. Using this query a public information source can be queried e.g. via the Internet to obtain relevant information without having the user leave the application. The search is performed in background and the search results are stored for the user to review. If the user clicks on this action the search results can be displayed. The results can be displayed in a sub window in the application.

The above described procedure for providing relevant information therefore uses semantic information of the data space activity items. For example the context element Initiatives that is determined at the Review Initiatives sub step can have a different meaning in different applications and in different processes within the applications. Initiatives in the context of planning and budget may be different compared to Initiatives in other contexts such as profit or strategy. By using the Initiative element in combination with the planning application element and the budget element more semantically relevant information can be obtained.

The context elements are used to search one or more content locations to find content items relevant to the context elements at . The content items are then ranked to determine relevant information at . The content items can be ranked by assigning weights indicative of the degree of match with the context elements. The more relevant information can be the content items of top ranks i.e. content items with relatively more weights. Finally the relevant information is made accessible to the user at .

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

