---

title: Beam pen lithography
abstract: The disclosure relates to methods of beam pen lithography using a tip array having a plurality of transparent, elastomeric, reversibly-deformable tips coated with a blocking layer and apertures defined in the blocking layer to expose tip ends of the tips in the array. The tip array can be used to perform a photolithography process in which the tips are illuminated with a radiation that is channeled through the tips and out the apertures to expose a photosensitive substrate. Also disclosed are tip arrays formed of polymers and gels, apparatus including the tip arrays and radiation sources, and related apparatus for selectively masking tips in the tip array from radiation emitted from the radiation source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021611&OS=09021611&RS=09021611
owner: Northwestern University
number: 09021611
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100218
---
The benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 153 400 filed Feb. 18 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 153 389 filed Feb. 18 2009 is hereby claimed and their entire disclosures are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under Grant No. EEC 0647560 awarded by the National Science Foundation NSF NSEC Grant No. FA9550 08 0124 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR and Grant No. N66001 08 2044 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The government has certain rights in this invention.

The demand for nanoscale components in integrated circuits medical diagnostics and optoelectronics has generated much interest in the development and study of various lithography strategies 1 5 . With conventional far field optical lithography however lateral feature resolution is diffraction limited as defined by the Rayleigh or Abb conditions which in practical terms only allow feature dimensions of approximately half the incident wavelength 6 . In order to overcome the diffraction limit a number of lithography approaches have been reported including multi photon induced photoresist polymerization 7 9 zone plate array lithography 10 11 and phase shift photolithography 12 . Though these techniques are highly parallel they rely on non standard optical instrumentation and light sources not readily available to most researchers or preclude arbitrary nanoscale pattern formation. In order to produce complex patterns established approaches including electron beam lithography focused ion beam FIB lithography and scanning probe microscopy SPM based techniques such as dip pen nanolithography DPN 13 14 have been employed. Near field scanning optical microscopy NSOM based techniques and scanning near field photolithography SNP are promising custom lithographic methods for sub diffraction limit patterning but are inherently low throughput and restricted to scan areas several hundred microns in length 15 17 .

In order to generate sub diffraction limit features SNP optics rely on the evanescent field of incident light passing through an aperture the intensity of which is strongly dependent on the distance between this aperture and the surface. To control precise aperture heights and lateral registry SNP relies on feedback systems used in piezo controlled SPM instruments 17 . Though highly parallel two dimensional 2D silicon based NSOM aperture arrays have been fabricated 18 aligning a large area substrate surface with near field proximity to this hard non deformable aperture array remains challenging. As a result no successful demonstrations of their use in homogeneous patterning have been reported.

Transparent PDMS stamps have been used to control light propagation in the context of surface patterning 20 21 . This approach does not allow for the fabrication of sub diffraction limit features in arbitrary geometries.

In one aspect a method for sub micron scale patterning includes contacting a photosensitive substrate with a tip array described herein. The tip array can include a tip substrate layer a plurality of tips fixed to a first surface of the tip substrate layer and having a tip end disposed opposite the first surface a blocking layer coated on the first surface of the substrate layer including the plurality of tips and a plurality of apertures defined in the blocking layer exposing the tip ends of the plurality of tips. The tip substrate layer and the plurality of tips are at least translucent e.g. permitting transmission of light of a desired wavelength for patterning. The tip substrate layer and plurality of tips preferably are elastomeric. The method further includes illuminating at least one tip of the tip array with radiation. The radiation is channeled through the transparent polymer and out the tip end exposed by the aperture to expose a portion of the photosensitive substrate. The exposed portion of the photosensitive substrate can have a dot size or line width of preferably less than 1 m.

In another aspect a tip array includes a tip substrate layer comprising a first surface and an oppositely disposed second surface a plurality of tips fixed to the first surface the tips each comprising a tip end disposed opposite the first surface. The tip substrate layer and the plurality of tips are at least translucent e.g. permitting transmission of light of a desired wavelength for patterning. The tip substrate layer and plurality of tips preferably are elastomeric. The tip array further includes a blocking layer coated on the plurality of tips and the first surface of the tip substrate and a plurality of apertures defined in the blocking layer exposing the tip ends of the plurality of tips.

In another aspect a method of making a beam pen lithography tip array includes providing tip array comprising a tip substrate layer comprising a first surface an oppositely disposed second surface a plurality of tips fixed to the first surface the tips each comprising a tip end disposed opposite the first surface coating a blocking layer on the plurality of tips and the first surface and forming an aperture in the blocking layer at the tip ends of the tips by removing a portion of the blocking layer.

The method can include forming the tip array by forming a master comprising an array of recesses in a substrate separated by lands filling the recesses and covering the lands with a prepolymer mixture comprising a prepolymer and optionally a crosslinker curing the prepolymer mixture to form a polymer structure and separating the cured polymer structure from the master.

The method can include removing a portion of the blocking layer by any suitable method including mechanical removal e.g. fracturing or ion beam ablation chemical removal or a combination of mechanical and chemical operations. In one embodiment the portion of the blocking layer can be removed by contacting the coated portion of the polymer structure to a surface coated with an adhesive and then moving the coated polymer structure and adhesive surface away from each other to separate an adhered portion of the blocking layer from the cured polymer structure. In another embodiment the portion of the blocking layer can be removed by coating an adhesive on the blocking layer and removing at least a portion of the adhesive by contacting the coated polymer structure to a surface wherein upon removal of the polymer structure from the surface the contacted portion of the adhesive remains on the surface to define an opening in the adhesive exposing a portion of the blocking layer. The coated polymer structure can then be etched to remove the exposed portion of the blocking layer and thereby expose a portion of the polymer structure.

Another aspect is a system for beam pen lithography that includes a radiation source for emitting a radiation in a path and a tip array as describe herein disposed in the path with the radiation being incident upon the tip substrate layer. The tip array can be operatively coupled to the radiation source.

Beam Pen Lithography BPL can allow for patterning of sub micron features over large areas with flexible pattern design convenient selective pen tip addressability and low fabrication cost. As compared to conventional photolithography or contact printing in which only pre formed patterns i.e. photomasks can be duplicated BPL can provide the flexibility to create different patterns by controlling the movement of a tip array over the substrate and or by selectively illuminating one or more of the pen tips in the tip array . Thus multiple dots for example can be fabricated to achieve arbitrary features. This approach bypasses the need for and costs associated with photomask fabrication in conventional photolithography allowing one to arbitrarily make many different types of structures without the hurdle of designing a new master via a throughput impeded serial process.

Referring to an embodiment of BPL generally includes contacting a photosensitive substrate for example a substrate having a photosensitive layer coated thereon with a tip array and irradiating a surface of a tip array with a radiation source such as for example UV light. The tip array includes a plurality of tips . The tips are formed from a material which is at least translucent to the wavelength of radiation intended for use in patterning e.g. in a range of 300 nm to 600 nm and preferably the tips are transparent to such light. Each tip can have a blocking layer disposed thereon with an aperture defined in the blocking layer and exposing the tip end. The blocking layer serves as a radiation blocking layer channeling the radiation through the material of the tip and out the exposed tip end. The tips can be used to both channel the radiation to a surface in a massively parallel scanning probe lithographic process and to control one or more parameters such as the distance between the tip and the substrate and the degree of tip deformation. Control of such parameters can allow one to take advantage of near field effects. In one embodiment the tips are elastomeric and reversibly deformable which can allow the tip array to be brought in contact with the substrate without damage to the substrate or the tip array . This contact can ensure the generation of near field effects.

Referring to FIGS. B and A D an embodiment of a BPL tip array includes a tip substrate layer see and a plurality of tips see fixed to the tip substrate layer . The tip substrate layer and the plurality of tips are formed of a transparent polymer. The tip substrate layer and the tips can be formed of the same polymer or can be formed of different polymers. The tip array further includes a blocking layer coated on the sidewalls of the tips and on the portions of the tip substrate layer between adjacent tips . Referring to an aperture is defined in the blocking layer at the tip end e.g. the photosensitive layer contacting end of each of the tips such that the transparent polymer tip end is exposed through the aperture .

The tip substrate layer can have any suitable thickness for example in a range of about 50 m to about 5 mm about 50 m to about 100 m or about 1 mm to about 5 mm. For example the tip substrate layer can have a minimum thickness of about 50 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 2000 3000 4000 or 5000 m. For example the tip substrate layer can have a maximum thickness of about 50 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 2000 3000 4000 or 5000 m. The thickness of the tip substrate layer can be decreased as the rigidity of the polymer used to form the tip substrate layer increases. For example for a gel polymer e.g. agarose the tip substrate layer can have a thickness in a range of about 1 mm to about 5 mm. For other more rigid polymers e.g. PDMS the tip substrate layer can have a thickness in a range of about 50 m to about 100 m for example. The combined thickness of the tip substrate layer and the tips can be in range of about 50 m to about 5 mm. For example for a gel polymer e.g. agarose the combined thickness can be up to about 5 mm. For example for other polymers e.g. PDMS the combined thickness can be less than about 200 m preferably less than about 150 m or more preferably about 100 m.

The tip substrate layer can be attached to a transparent rigid support for example formed from glass silicon quartz ceramic polymer or any combination thereof. The rigid support is preferably highly rigid and has a highly planar surface upon which to mount the tip array .

The tip arrays are non cantilevered and comprise tips which can be designed to have any shape or spacing pitch between them as needed. The shape of each tip can be the same or different from other tips of the array and preferably the tips have a common shape. Contemplated tip shapes include spheroid hemispheroid toroid polyhedron cone cylinder and pyramid trigonal or square . The tips have a base portion fixed to the tip substrate layer . The base portion preferably is larger than the tip end portion. The base portion can have an edge length in a range of about 1 m to about 50 m or about 5 m to about 50 m. For example the minimum edge length can be about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 or 50 m. For example the maximum edge length can be about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 or 50 m.

Referring to a preferred tip array contains thousands of tips preferably having a pyramidal shape. The substrate contacting tip end portions of the tips each can have a diameter in a range of about 50 nm to about 1 m. For example the minimum diameter can be about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 or 1000 nm. For example the minimum diameter can be about 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 or 1000 nm. The substrate contacting portions of the tips are preferably sharp so that each is suitable for forming submicron patterns e.g. less than about 500 nm. The sharpness of the tip is measured by its radius of curvature. The tips can have a radius of curvature for example of below about 1 m and can be less than about 0.9 m less than about 0.8 m less than about 0.7 m less than about 0.6 m less than about 0.5 m less than about 0.4 m less than about 0.3 m less than about 0.2 m less than about 0.1 m less than about 90 nm less than about 80 nm less than about 70 nm less than about 60 nm or less than about 50 nm.

The tip to tip spacing between adjacent tips tip pitch can be in a range of about 1 m to about over 10 mm or about 20 m to about 1 mm. For example the minimum tip to tip spacing can be about 1 m 2 m 3 m 4 m 5 m 6 m 7 m 8 m 9 m 10 m 15 m 20 m 25 m 30 m 35 m 40 m 45 m 50 m 55 m 60 m 65 m 70 m 75 m 80 m 85 m 90 m 95 m 100 m 200 m 300 m 400 m 500 m 600 m 700 m 800 m 900 m 1 mm 2 mm 3 mm 4 mm 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm or 10 mm. For example the maximum tip to tip spacing can be about 1 m 2 m 3 m 4 m 5 m 6 m 7 m 8 m 9 m 10 m 15 m 20 m 25 m 30 m 35 m 40 m 45 m 50 m 55 m 60 m 65 m 70 m 75 m 80 m 85 m 90 m 95 m 100 m 200 m 300 m 400 m 500 m 600 m 700 m 800 m 900 m 1 mm 2 mm 3 mm 4 mm 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm or 10 mm.

The tips of the tip array can be designed to have any desired thickness but typically the thickness of the tip array is about 50 nm to about 50 m about 50 nm to about 1 m about 10 m to about 50 m about 50 nm to about 500 nm about 50 nm to about 400 nm about 50 nm to about 300 nm about 50 nm to about 200 nm or about 50 nm to about 100 nm. For example the minimum thickness can be about 50 nm 60 nm 70 nm 80 nm 90 nm 100 nm 200 nm 300 nm 400 nm 500 nm 600 nm 700 nm 800 nm 900 nm 1 m 5 m 10 m 15 m 20 m 25 m 30 m 35 m 40 m 45 m or 50 m. For example the maximum thickness can be about 50 nm 60 nm 70 nm 80 nm 90 nm 100 nm 200 nm 300 nm 400 nm 500 nm 600 nm 700 nm 800 nm 900 nm 1 m 5 m 10 m 15 m 20 m 25 m 30 m 35 m 40 m 45 m or 50 m. The thickness of the tip array can be decreased as the rigidity of the polymer used to form the tip substrate layer increases. For example for a gel polymer e.g. agarose the tip array can have a thickness in a range of about 10 m to about 50 m. For other polymers e.g. PDMS for example the tip array can have a thickness of about 50 nm to about 1 m. As used herein the thickness of the tip array refers to the distance from the tip end to the base end of a tip. The tips can be arranged randomly or in a regular periodic pattern e.g. in columns and rows in a circular pattern or the like .

The blocking layer on the polymer tip sidewalls serves as a radiation blocking layer allowing the radiation illuminated on a surface of the substrate layer opposite the surface to which the tips are fixed to be emitted only through the tip end exposed by the aperture defined in the blocking layer . As shown in the exposure of a substrate pre coated with a resist layer with the radiation channeled through the tip ends of the tip array can allow for the formation of a single dot per tip for each exposure. The blocking layer can be formed of any material suitable for blocking e.g. reflecting a type of radiation used in the lithography process. For example the blocking layer can be a metal such as gold when used with UV light. Other suitable blocking layers include but are not limited to gold chromium titanium silver copper nickel silicon aluminum opaque organic molecules and polymers and combinations thereof. The blocking layer can have any suitable thickness for example in a range of about 40 nm to about 500 nm. For example the minimum thickness can be about 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 nm. For example the maximum thickness can be about 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 nm.

Polymeric materials suitable for use in the tip array can have linear or branched backbones and can be crosslinked or non crosslinked depending upon the particular polymer and the degree of compressibility desired for the tip. Cross linkers refer to multi functional monomers capable of forming two or more covalent bonds between polymer molecules. Non limiting examples of cross linkers include such as trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate TMPTMA divinylbenzene di epoxies tri epoxies tetra epoxies di vinyl ethers tri vinyl ethers tetra vinyl ethers and combinations thereof.

Thermoplastic or thermosetting polymers can be used as can crosslinked elastomers. In general the polymers can be porous and or amorphous. A variety of elastomeric polymeric materials are contemplated including polymers of the general classes of silicone polymers and epoxy polymers. Polymers having low glass transition temperatures such as for example below 25 C. or more preferably below 50 C. can be used. Diglycidyl ethers of bisphenol A can be used in addition to compounds based on aromatic amine triazine and cycloaliphatic backbones. Another example includes Novolac polymers. Other contemplated elastomeric polymers include methylchlorosilanes ethylchlorosilanes and phenylchlorosilanes polydimethylsiloxane PDMS . Other materials include polyethylene polystyrene polybutadiene polyurethane polyisoprene polyacrylic rubber fluorosilicone rubber and fluoroelastomers.

Further examples of suitable polymers that may be used to form a tip can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 776 748 6 596 346 and 6 500 549 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Other suitable polymers include those disclosed by He et al. 2003 19 6982 6986 Donzel et al. 2001 13 1164 1167 and Martin et al. 1998 14 15 3791 3795. Hydrophobic polymers such as polydimethylsiloxane can be modified either chemically or physically by for example exposure to a solution of a strong oxidizer or to an oxygen plasma.

The polymer of the tip array can be a polymer gel. The gel polymer can comprise any suitable gel including hydrogels and organogels. For example the polymer gel can be a silicon hydrogel a branched polysaccharide gel an unbranched polysaccharide gel a polyacrylamide gel a polyethylene oxide gel a cross linked polyethylene oxide gel a poly 2 acrylamido 2 methyl 1 propanesulfonic acid polyAMPS gel a polyvinylpyrrolidone gel a cross linked polyvinylpyrrolidone gel a methylcellulose gel a hyaluronan gel and combinations thereof. For example the polymer gel can be an agarose gel. By weight gels are mostly liquid for example the gel can be greater than 95 liquid yet behave like a solid due to the presence of a cross linked network within the liquid.

The material used to form the tip array has a suitable compression modulus and surface hardness to prevent collapse of the tip during contact with the surface but too high a modulus and too great a surface hardness can lead to a brittle material that cannot adapt and conform to a substrate surface during exposure. As disclosed in Schmid et al. 33 3042 2000 vinyl and hydrosilane prepolymers can be tailored to provide polymers of different modulus and surface hardness. Thus in another type of embodiment the polymer can be a mixture of vinyl and hydrosilane prepolymers wherein the weight ratio of vinyl prepolymer to hydrosilane crosslinker is about 5 1 to about 20 1 about 7 1 to about 15 1 or about 8 1 to about 12 1.

The material used to form the tip array preferably will have a surface hardness of about 0.2 to about 3.5 of glass as measured by resistance of a surface to penetration by a hard sphere with a diameter of 1 mm compared to the resistance of a glass surface as described in Schmid et al. 33 3042 2000 at p 3044 . The surface hardness optionally can be about 0.3 to about 3.3 about 0.4 to about 3.2 about 0.5 to about 3.0 or about 0.7 to about 2.7 of glass. The polymers of the tip array can have a compression modulus of about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa. The tip array preferably comprises a compressible polymer which is Hookean under pressures of about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa. The linear relationship between pressure exerted on the tip array and the feature size allows for control of the near field and feature size using the disclosed methods and tip arrays see .

The tip portion of the tip arrays can be made with a master prepared by conventional photolithography and subsequent wet chemical etching. The mold can be engineered to contain as many tips arrayed in any fashion desired. The tips of the tip array can be any number desired and contemplated numbers of tips include about 1000 tips to about 15 million tips or greater. The number of tips of the tip array can be greater than about 1 million greater than about 2 million greater than about 3 million greater than about 4 million greater than 5 million tips greater than 6 million greater than 7 million greater than 8 million greater than 9 million greater than 10 million greater than 11 million greater than 12 million greater than 13 million greater than 14 million or greater than 15 million tips.

Optionally the tips can be cleaned for example using oxygen plasma prior to coating with the blocking layer . The blocking layer can be disposed on the tips by any suitable process including coating for example spin coating the tips with the blocking layer

An aperture in the blocking layer can be formed by any suitable method including for example focused ion beam FIB methods or using a lift off method. The lift off method can be a dry lift off method. Referring to one suitable approach includes applying an adhesive such as poly methyl methacrylate PMMA on top of the blocking layer of the tip array and removing a portion of the adhesive material disposed at the substrate contacting end of the tips by contacting the tip array to a clean and flat surface for example a glass surface. The tips can then be immersed in an etching solution to remove the exposed portion of the blocking layer to form the aperture and expose the material of the tip e.g. the transparent polymer. The remaining adhesive material protects the covered surfaces of the blocking layer from being etched during the etching step. The adhesive can be for example PMMA poly ethylene glycol PEG polyacrylonitrile and combinations thereof.

Referring to alternatively a simple contact approach can be used in which a tip array having the blocking layer is brought in contact with a glass slide or other surface coated with an adhesive material such as PMMA. Other suitable adhesive materials include for example PMMA PEG polyacrylonitrile and combinations thereof. Upon removal of the pen tip from surface coated with the adhesive material the adhesive material removes the contacted portion of the blocking layer thereby defining an aperture and exposing the tip material e.g. the transparent polymer.

In either of the above described aperture forming methods the size of the aperture formed can be controlled by applying different external forces on the backside of the BPL tip array . As a result of the flexibility of elastomeric tips the application of force on the backside of the BPL tip array can be used to control the contact area between the tips and adhesive material surface. Referring to the BPL tip array can include pyramidal tips with each pyramid shaped tip being covered by a gold blocking layer having a small aperture defined in the blocking layer at the very end of the tip. The size of the aperture does not significantly change from tip to tip. For example the size of the aperture can vary less than about 10 from tip to tip. The size of the aperture can be tailored over the 200 nm to 1 to 10 m ranges for example by controlling contact force. For example the aperture can have a diameter in a range of about 5 nm to about 5 m about 30 nm to about 500 nm or about 200 nm to about 5 m. For example the minimum aperture diameter can be about 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 or 5000 nm. For example the maximum aperture diameter can be about 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 or 5000 nm. The contact force optionally can be in a range of about 0.002 N to about 0.2N for a 1 cmpen array.

For example a PDMS array of pyramid shape tips can be fabricated by known methods. 17 20 . For example each pyramid tip can have a square base with a several tens of m edge length and can come to a tip that has tip diameter of about 100 nm. The entire array including tips can then be cleaned for example by oxygen plasma and covered with a blocking layer e.g. gold by a thermal evaporation method for example. The coating can include for example a layer of gold that is about 80 nm thick with an about 5 nm thick Ti adhesion layer. The tip array is then brought in contact with a glass slide coated with PMMA an adhesive material which subsequently removes the Au Ti layer from the PDMS tips and exposes the underlying transparent PDMS.

The surfaces to pattern by BPL can include any suitable substrate and preferably one which can be advantageously affected by exposure to radiation. For example the substrate can be photosensitive or can include a photosensitive layer . For example the photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer can be a resist layer. The resist layer can be any known resist material for example SHIPLEY1805 MicroChem. Inc. . Other suitable resist materials include but are not limited to Shipley1813 MicroChem. Inc. Shipley1830 MicroChem. Inc. PHOTORESIST AZ1518 MicroChemicals Germany PHOTORESIST AZ5214 MicroChemicals Germany SU 8 and combinations thereof. Other examples of photosensitive materials include but are not limited to liquid crystals and metals. For examples the substrate can include metal salts that can be reduced when exposed to the radiation. Substrates suitable for use in methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to metals alloys composites crystalline materials amorphous materials conductors semiconductors optics fibers inorganic materials glasses ceramics e.g. metal oxides metal nitrides metal silicides and combinations thereof zeolites polymers plastics organic materials minerals biomaterials living tissue bone and laminates and combinations thereof. The substrate can be in the form of films thin films foils and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a semiconductor including but not limited to one or more of crystalline silicon polycrystalline silicon amorphous silicon p doped silicon n doped silicon silicon oxide silicon germanium germanium gallium arsenide gallium arsenide phosphide indium tin oxide graphene and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a glass including but not limited to one or more of undoped silica glass SiO fluorinated silica glass borosilicate glass borophosphorosilicate glass organosilicate glass porous organosilicate glass and combinations thereof. The substrate can be a non planar substrate including but not limited to one or more of pyrolytic carbon reinforced carbon carbon composite a carbon phenolic resin and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a ceramic including but not limited to one or more of silicon carbide hydrogenated silicon carbide silicon nitride silicon carbonitride silicon oxynitride silicon oxycarbide high temperature reusable surface insulation fibrous refractory composite insulation tiles toughened unipiece fibrous insulation low temperature reusable surface insulation advanced reusable surface insulation and combinations thereof. A substrate can comprise a flexible material including but not limited to one or more of a plastic a metal a composite thereof a laminate thereof a thin film thereof a foil thereof and combinations thereof.

The photosensitive substrate or the photosensitive layer can have any suitable thickness for example in a range of about 100 nm to about 5000 nm. For example the minimum photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer thickness can be about 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 or 5000 nm. For example the maximum photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer thickness can be about 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 4500 or 5000 nm. The diameter of the indicia formed by the tip array can be modulated by modifying the resist material used and or the thickness of the photosensitive substrate or photosensitive layer . For example under the same radiation conditions a thicker photosensitive layer can result in indicia having larger diameters. At constant photosensitive layer thickness an increase radiation intensity can results in indicia having larger diameters.

BPL can be performed using any suitable platform for example a Park AFM platform XEP Park Systems Co. Suwon Korea equipped with a halogen light source. BPLAs another example a Zeiss microscope can be used with a light source having a wavelength in a range of about 360 nm to about 450 nm. Movement of the tip array when using the Zeiss microscope can be controlled for example by the microscope stage.

Referring again to in an embodiment of the method a transparent polymer tip array is brought in contact with a photosensitive layer for example for example SHIPLEY1805 MicroChem. Inc. photoresist material followed by exposure e.g. illumination of the top surface the substrate layer of the tip array with a radiation source. As a result of the blocking layer blocking the radiation e.g. by reflection the radiation is transmitted through the transparent polymer and out the portion of the transparent polymer exposed by the aperture i.e. the tip end . Historically photolithography has used ultraviolet light from gas discharge lamps using mercury sometimes in combination with noble gases such as xenon. These lamps produce light across a broad spectrum with several strong peaks in the ultraviolet range. This spectrum is filtered to select a single spectral line for example the g line 436 nm or i line 365 nm . More recently lithography has moved to deep ultraviolet for example wavelengths below 300 nm which can be produced by excimer lasers. Krypton fluoride produces a 248 nm spectral line and argon fluoride a 193 nm line. In principle the type of radiation used with the present apparatus and methods is not limited. One practical consideration is compatibility with the pen array materials. Radiation in the wavelength range of about 300 nm to about 600 nm is preferred optionally 380 nm to 420 nm for example about 365 nm about 400 nm or about 436 nm. For example the radiation optionally can have a minimum wavelength of about 300 350 400 450 500 550 or 600 nm. For example the radiation optionally can have a maximum wavelength of about 300 350 400 450 500 550 or 600 nm.

The photosensitive layer can be exposed by the radiation transmitted through the polymer tip for any suitable time for example in a range of about 1 second to about 1 minute. For example the minimum exposure time can be about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 or 60 seconds. For example the maximum exposure time can be about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 or 60 seconds.

The tip array and or the substrate can be moved during patterning to form the desired indicia. For example in one embodiment the tip array is moved while the substrate is held stationary. In another embodiment the tip array is held stationary while the substrate is moved. In yet another embodiment both the tip array and the substrate are moved.

The method can further include developing the photosensitive layer for example by any suitable process known in the art. For example when a resist layer is used the exposed resist layer can be developed for by exposed for about 30 seconds in MF319 Rohm Haas Electronic Materials LLC . The resist layer can be a positive resist or a negative resist. If a positive resist layer is used developing of the resist layer removes the exposed portion of the resist layer. If a negative resist layer is used developing of the resist layer removes the unexposed portion of the resist layer. Optionally the method can further include depositing a patterning layer on the substrate surface after exposure followed by lift off of the resist layer to thereby form the patterning layer into the indicia printed on the resist layer by BPL. The patterning layer can be a metal for example and can be deposited for example by thermal evaporation. The resist lift off can be performed using for example acetone.

Referring to when using large scale 2D arrays of BPL tips 15 000 pens per cm BPL can be used to do very high throughput lithography yielding thousands of parallel produced patterns at a time. The patterns can be the same for example by using a uniform tip array . In the alternative at least some of the patterns can differ from each other for example by using a tip array which is non uniformly masked and lateral displacement of the tip array while patterning which exceeds the tip pitch dimension. illustrates a uniform dot array formed by a beam pen tip array having apertures formed by FIB using an about 400 nm halogen light source and 40 nm thick resist layer . The aperture diameter was 50 5 nm. After chromium evaporation and resist lift off chromium dot features with diameters of 111 11 nm were generated. This feature size is below the diffraction limit of the light source.

As shown in arrays of L shapes can be formed with the L shape being formed by a single pen tip. To image the results of the lithographic experiment for example the resist coated substrate was developed followed by metal evaporation and resist removal to generate dot features. The relative positions of the dots from L to L represents the relative position of the tips in the array. The diameter of each dot can be modulated by a number of lithographic parameters including for example exposure time resist material type and photosensitive layer thickness.

Another factor contributing to BPL resolution is the tip aperture size which controls the area of the resist which is exposed to light from the tip. Referring to with a near UV light or halogen light source and conventional photolithography conditions dot sizes close to and below the light diffraction limit of about 200 nm inset can be created. The dot pattern of was generated using a radiation having a wavelength of about 380 nm to about 420 nm. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that this small feature size may be attributed to near field effects at the point of contact between the tip and surface. Even though the aperture used to create the dots of is 500 nm the contact area is much smaller acting like a light pipe. Further optimization of the photolithography conditions can include for example using deep UV illumination thinner resist layers and high resolution resist materials which may improve BPL resolution down to the sub 100 nm range.

Large arrays of dots can be made simultaneously by moving the array of the surface with a piezo stage while illuminating the tip array from the back side of the tips for example through the tip substrate layer . As shown in 10 10 gold dot arrays with a feature spacing of 6 m can be generated. The dot arrays were generated using 90 maximum power light intensity a 20 second exposure time. The features have a diameter of 750 80 nm. The radiation can be kept on during the entire patterning process. Accordingly the lateral and vertical movement of the tip array is done rapidly to minimally expose the resist areas that are not intended for patterning. For example the tip array movement across the sample can be done in a range of about 10 m s to about 100 m s. For example the minimum rate of movement of the tip array across the substrate can be about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 m s. For example the maximum rate of movement of the tip array across the substrate can be about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 m s. Using a tip array having 15 000 tips patterns can be simultaneously generated in about 30 minutes for a total of 1.5 million features .

As shown in BPL was used to create 15 000 replicas of a pattern of the Chicago skyline comprised of 182 dots . The tip array used to create the pattern had 500 nm diameter apertures. These structures were created by holding the pen array at each spot for about 20 s and traveling between spots at a speed of 60 m s. The dots are 450 70 nm in diameter and 600 nm apart .

The individual tips within a BPL array can be addressed by selective illumination. For example patterning can be achieved with the illumination of fewer than all of the tips in the array for example with one or a selected plurality of the tips in the tip array . Selective illumination of the tips can be performed for example by selectively focusing light through the microscopic bases of each tip. The tip array can also include one or more spatial light modulators capable of blocking certain tips from exposure to the light. The spatial light modulators can be static and or dynamically controllable. For example the spatial light modulates can be shutters. The spatial light modulators can be formed using a variety of materials including for example liquid crystals. The spatial light modulators can be for example a mask which is not dynamically controllable. The spatial light modulators can be placed or formed as a part of the tip substrate layer . Because the base of the tips has edge lengths on the order of microns the spatial light modulators need not be created on the nanoscale in order to result in sub micron sized indicia. Rather it is the channeling of the radiation through the transparent polymer and the aperture that allows for the sub micron patterning. Tip addressability has been a major challenge for SPL methods. With passive arrays one simply achieves duplication each tip does exactly what the other tips do. Many different methods of actuation have been evaluated with limited success especially where lithography is the primary goal. Thermal mechanical electrical and magnetic actuation all have been studied. With BPL the radiation can be used as a convenient method to achieve multiplexed addressability of each tip within a complex and large array.

Referring for example one can take the tip array and use a photo mask for example a Cr photo mask to cover all of the pyramid bases that one wants to turn off in a BPL experiment. Under homogeneous illumination each active tip in the array can be used to fabricate repeat arbitrary patterns such as letters of NU with 29 uniform dots . When the radiation source was illuminated on selected BPL tips e.g. areas corresponding to letters U only those tips under illumination can channel energy to the substrate and expose the resist layer while no patterns resulted from other area without illumination although all of the tips made contacts with the substrate simultaneously . This approach allows for two orthogonal levels of control using selective illumination for tip attenuation and tip movement. When coupled with spatial light modulator each tip can be individually addressed to fabricate different patterns. For example a portion of the tips in a tip array can be selectively illuminated and first pattern can be formed. The tip array can then be shifted and a second pattern can be formed. The tip array can be shifted for example a distance at least equal to the tip pitch to form with the second pattern step a variety of different patterns on the substrate. For example as a result of the selective illumination of the tips regions of the substrate would include only the first pattern only the second pattern or a combination of both patterns.

The features that can be patterned range from sub 100 nm to 1 mm in size or greater and can be controlled by altering the exposure time and or the contacting pressure of the tip array .

The BPL tip arrays can exhibit pressure dependence which results from the compressible nature of the polymer used to form the tip array . Indeed the microscopic preferably pyramidal tips can be made to deform with successively increasing amounts of applied pressure which can be controlled by simply extending the piezo in the vertical direction z piezo . The controlled deformation of the tip array can be used as an adjustable variable allowing one to control tip substrate contact area and resulting feature size. The pressure of the contact can be controlled by the z piezo of a piezo scanner. The more pressure or force exerted on the tip array the larger the feature size. Thus any combination of contacting time and contacting force pressure can provide a means for the formation of a feature size from about 30 nm to about 1 mm or greater. Within the pressure range allowed by z piezo extension of about 5 to about 25 m one can observe a near linear relationship between piezo extension and feature size at a fixed contact time of 1 s. The substrate layer of the tip arrays can deform before deformation of the tips occurs which can offer a buffering provides extra tolerance in bringing all of the tips in contact with the surface without tip deformation and significantly changing the intended feature size. The contacting pressure of the tip array can be about 10 MPa to about 300 MPa.

At very low contact pressures such as pressures of about 0.01 to about 0.1 g cmfor the preferred materials described herein the feature size of the resulting indicia is independent of the contacting pressure which allows for one to level the tip array on the substrate surface without changing the feature size of the indicia. Such low pressures are achievable by 0.5 m or less extensions of the z piezo of a piezo scanner to which a tip array is mounted and pressures of about 0.01 g cmto about 0.1 g cmcan be applied by z piezo extensions of less than 0.5 m. This buffering pressure range allows one to manipulate the tip array substrate or both to make initial contact between tips and substrate surface without compressing the tips and then using the degree of compression of tips observed by changes in reflection of light off the inside surfaces of the tips to achieve a uniform degree of contact between tips and substrate surface. This leveling ability is important as non uniform contact of the tips of the tip array can lead to non uniform indicia. Given the large number of tips of the tip array e.g. 11 million in an example provided herein and their small size as a practical matter it may be difficult or impossible to know definitively if all of the tips are in contact with the surface. For example a defect in a tip or the substrate surface or an irregularity in a substrate surface may result in a single tip not making contact while all other tips are in uniform contact. Thus the disclosed methods provide for at least substantially all of the tips to be in contact with the substrate surface e.g. to the extent detectable . For example at least 90 at least 95 at least 96 at least 97 at least 98 or at least 99 of the tips will be in contact with the substrate surface.

The leveling of the tip array and substrate surface with respect to one another can be assisted by the transparent or at least translucent nature of the tip array and tip substrate layer which allow for detection of a change in reflection of light that is directed from the top of the tip array i.e. behind the base of the tips and common substrate through to the substrate surface. The intensity of light reflected from the tips of the tip array increases upon contact with the substrate surface e.g. the internal surfaces of the tip array reflect light differently upon contact . By observing the change in reflection of light at each tip the tip array and or the substrate surface can be adjusted to effect contact of substantially all or all of the tips of the tip array to the substrate surface. Thus the tip array and common substrate preferably are translucent or transparent to allow for observing the change in light reflection of the tips upon contact with the substrate surface. Likewise any rigid backing material to which the tip array is mounted is also preferably at least transparent or translucent.

The contacting time for the tips can be from about 0.001 seconds to about 60 seconds. For example the minimum contact time can be about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10 20 30 40 50 or 60 seconds. For example the maximum contact time can be about 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10 20 30 40 50 or 60 seconds. The contacting force can be controlled by altering the z piezo of the piezo scanner or by other means that allow for controlled application of force across the tip array .

The substrate surface can be contacted with a tip array a plurality of times wherein the tip array the substrate surface or both move to allow for different portions of the substrate surface to be contacted. The time and pressure of each contacting step can be the same or different depending upon the desired pattern. The shape of the indicia or patterns has no practical limitation and can include dots lines e.g. straight or curved formed from individual dots or continuously a preselected pattern or any combination thereof.

The indicia resulting from the disclosed methods have a high degree of sameness and thus are uniform or substantially uniform in size and preferably also in shape. The individual indicia feature size e.g. a dot or line width is highly uniform for example within a tolerance of about 5 or about 1 or about 0.5 . The tolerance can be about 0.9 about 0.8 about 0.7 about 0.6 about 0.4 about 0.3 about 0.2 or about 0.1 . Non uniformity of feature size and or shape can lead to roughness of indicia that can be undesirable for sub micron type patterning.

The feature size can be about 10 nm to about 1 mm about 10 nm to about 500 m about 10 nm to about 100 m about 50 nm to about 100 m about 50 nm to about 50 m about 50 nm to about 10 m about 50 nm to about 5 m or about 50 nm to about 1 m. Features sizes can be less than 1 m less than about 900 nm less than about 800 nm less than about 700 nm less than about 600 nm less than about 500 nm less than about 400 nm less than about 300 nm less than about 200 nm less than about 100 nm or less than about 90 nm.

A system for BPL can include a radiation source for emitting a radiation in a path and a tip array as disclosed herein disposed in the path with the radiation being incident upon the tip substrate layer such that the radiation is emitted through the aperture exposed tip ends of the tips. The system can further include a substrate stage disposed for selective contact with the tip array. The substrate stage can be for example a piezo stage. The tip array can optionally be operatively coupled to the radiation source and or the substrate stage to perform a patterning method described herein. The apparatus can also include one or more spatial light modulators disposed in the radiation path between the radiation source and the tip array for selective illumination of individual tips in the array. For example the system can include an array of spatial light modulators that are individually and dynamically controllable to selectively reflect the incident radiation or allow it to pass to the tip substrate layer and tip s . The spatial light modulators can be coupled to the BPL tip array . For example the spatial light modulators can be disposed on the tip substrate layer of the tip array .

Shipley1805 MicroChem Inc. photoresist was spin coated onto gold thin film substrates 10 nm Cr adhesion layer with 100 nm of Au thermally evaporated on a pre cleaned oxidized Si wafer . Square well arrays were fabricated by photolithography using a chrome mask. The photoresist patterns were developed in an MF319 developing solution MicroChem Inc. and then exposed to Oplasma for 30 s 200 mTorr to remove the residual organic layer. Subsequently the substrates were placed in gold Type TFA Transene and chromium Type 1020 Transene etching solutions respectively. Copious rinsing with MiliQ water was required after each etching step to clean the surface. The photoresist was then washed away with acetone to expose the gold pattern. The gold patterned substrate was placed in a KOH etching solution 30 KOH in HO IPA 4 1 v v at 75 C. for 25 min with vigorous stirring. The uncovered areas of the Si wafer were etched anisotropically resulting in the formation of recessed pyramids. The remaining Au and Cr layers were removed by wet chemical etching. Finally the pyramid master was modified with 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyltrichlorosilane Gelest Inc. by gas phase silanization.

Hard PDMS h PDMS 1 2 was used for fabricating the polymer pen arrays. The h PDMS was composed of 3.4 g of vinyl compound rich prepolymer VDT 731 Gelest and 1.0 g of hydrosilane rich crosslinker HMS 301 . Preparation of polymers typically required the addition of 20 ppm w w platinum catalyst to the vinyl fraction platinumdivinyltetramethyldisiloxane complex in xylene SIP 6831.1 Gelest and 0.1 w w modulator to the mixture 2 4 6 8 tetramethyltetravinylcyclotetrasiloxane Fluka . The mixture was stirred degassed and poured on top of the polymer pen array master. A pre cleaned glass slide VWR Inc. was then placed on top of the elastomer array and the whole assembly was cured at 70 C. overnight. The polymer pen array was carefully separated from the pyramid master.

The entire array including tips is cleaned by oxygen plasma and then covered with a layer gold by thermal evaporation methods 80 nm with a 5 nm Ti adhesion layer . The tip array was then brought in contact with a glass slide coated with poly methyl methacrylate PMMA a sticky material which subsequently removed the Au Ti layer from the PDMS tips defining the aperture and exposing the underlying transparent PDMS.

A Si SiOsurface was first spin coated with a layer of hexamethyl disilazane at about 4000 rmp for about 40 seconds followed by spin coating a layer of SHIPLEY 1805 pre diluted with propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate MicroChem. Inc. at about 4000 rpm for about 40 seconds. The chip was then baked at a hot plate at about 110 C. for about 5 minutes before being used as a substrate.

The beam pen tip array was then brought into contact with the substrate using a UV photo aligner Model Q2000 . The substrate was then exposed to an illumination source by illuminating the top surface of the tip array with a halogen light source. The light source traveled through the tips of the array to expose portions of the substrate. Typical illumination time was in a range of about 0.5 seconds to about 1 second. Exposure was followed by pattern developing in an MF319 developing solution MicroChem. Inc. . The illumination process was performed on a Park XEP Park Systems Co. Suwon Korea AFM platform. For selected area illumination conventional quartz masks with different shadow shapes such as the letters of NU were placed between the light source and the tip arrays. As shown in this results in the formation of patterns on the substrate in the shape of the quartz mask.

The foregoing describes and exemplifies the invention but is not intended to limit the invention defined by the claims which follow. All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the materials and methods of this invention have been described in terms of specific embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the materials and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved.

All patents publications and references cited herein are hereby fully incorporated by reference. In case of conflict between the present disclosure and incorporated patents publications and references the present disclosure should control.

