---

title: Multilayer structures having memory elements with varied resistance of switching layers
abstract: A multilayer structure is provided that includes a base and a multilayer circuit disposed above the base. The multilayer circuit includes memory elements, each including a switching layer, and conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element. The total resistance of the switching layer of a memory element is varied based on the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08259485&OS=08259485&RS=08259485
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08259485
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
Three dimensional 3D circuits containing stacked multiple layers of interconnected circuitry provide potential solutions for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits. An example of such a 3D circuit is a memory circuit that is comprised of multiple layers of interconnected memory elements each layer being an interconnected two dimensional array 2D of the memory elements. The electrical properties of a memory element such as its internal voltage for a given external voltage applied to the multilayer structure can vary depending on the position of the memory element in the multilayer structure. As a result the performance of the memory circuit can be affected. A memory circuit having a multilayer architecture of memory elements that present uniform electrical properties including uniform internal voltages regardless of position in the multilayer structure for a given external applied voltage would be beneficial.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment or example but not necessarily in other embodiments or examples. The various instances of the phrases in one embodiment in one example or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment or example.

A computer is any machine device or apparatus that processes data according to computer readable instructions that are stored on a computer readable medium either temporarily or permanently. A software application also referred to as software an application computer software a computer application a program and a computer program is a set of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute to perform one or more specific tasks. A data file is a block of information that durably stores data for use by a software application.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium capable storing information that is readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying these instructions and data include but are not limited to all forms of non volatile computer readable memory including for example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and Flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable hard disks magneto optical disks DVD ROM RAM and CD ROM RAM.

As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to the term including means including but not limited to. The term based on means based at least in part on.

A multilayer structure including multiple layers of interconnected circuitry can provide potential solutions for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits. A non limiting example of such a multilayer structure is a memory circuit that is comprised of multiple layers of interconnected memory elements each layer of the multilayer structure being an interconnected two dimensional array 2D of the memory elements. The electrical properties of a memory element can vary depending on its position in the multilayer structure. As a non limiting example for a given external voltage applied to the multilayer structure the internal voltage of a memory element positioned in a lower layer of the structure relative to the base of the multilayer structure can differ from the internal voltage of a memory element positioned in a higher layer. As a result the performance of the multilayer structure can be affected. Provided herein are multilayer structures including multiple layers of interconnected memory elements that present uniform electrical properties including uniform internal voltages regardless of position in the multilayer structure for a given external applied voltage.

The thickness of the switching layer in some examples can be about 10 nm or less about 6 nm or less about 4 nm or less about 2 nm or less or less than 1 nm. For example the thickness of the switching layer can be about 0.5 nm or less. The conductive layer can be about the same thickness as the switching layer or can be thicker than the switching layer. For example the thickness of the conductive layer may range from 2 nm to 200 nm. The electrodes can be made of platinum between about 7 nm and about 100 nm thick or thicker. In another example the electrode can be a copper tantalum nitride platinum system where the copper is a very good conductor and the tantalum nitride acts as a diffusion barrier between the copper and the platinum.

In operation the conductive layer serves as a reservoir of dopants that can drift into the switching material in the switching layer during switching. shows a voltage source that can be used to apply an external DC voltage to the memory element. The memory element is switched between an ON state higher conductivity state and an OFF state lower conductivity state when a higher external DC voltage from a voltage source is applied across the electrodes and to cause dopants to migrate from the conductive layer into the switching layer ON state or migrate from the switching layer into the conductive layer OFF state . The state of the memory element is read when a lower external DC voltage from a voltage source is applied across the electrodes and .

Due to the higher dopant concentration the conductive layer is normally conductive and can contribute minimally to the overall resistance of the memory element. The overall resistance of the memory element can be approximated by the total resistance of the switching layer. Therefore the overall resistance of a memory element can be increased by increasing the total resistance of the switching layer. In one example the resistance R of the switching layer i increases with increasing resistivity of the switching material which can be temperature T dependent ii increases with increasing thickness l of the switching layer along the Z axis indicated in and iii decreases with the area A of the switching layer computed using the lateral dimensions i.e. in the x y plane of the switching layer . In one example a memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance by increasing the thickness l of the switching layer. In this example the resistance of the switching layer increases monotonically with increasing thickness of the switching layer. For example the resistance of the switching layer can increase exponentially with the layer thickness. In other examples a memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance by keeping the thicknesses about the same and using a switching material of a higher resistivity or decreasing at least one of the lateral dimensions of the switching layer thus reducing A . In yet another example a memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance using some combination of increasing the thickness of the switching layer using a switching material of a higher resistivity and or increasing the lateral dimensions of the switching layer.

The memory element is illustrated in as including a single switching layer and a single conductive layer . In another example the memory element can include more than one switching layer or more than one conductive layer . In other examples the memory element can include multiple switching layers and conductive layers .

The electrical properties of memory elements can vary depending on their position in a multilayer structure like . As illustrated in the total length of conductive lines that lead to memory elements in a lower layer of the multilayer structure is less than the total length of conductive lines that lead to memory elements in a higher level. As a result the total resistance of the conductive lines that lead to memory elements in the lower layer is less than the total resistance of the conductive lines that lead to memory elements in the higher level. If the memory elements on every level are made to have substantially the same overall resistance such as for the multilayer structure illustrated in then their electrical properties can differ for a given external voltage applied to the multilayer structure. Part of the applied external voltage drop across the conductive lines depends on the length and thus the total resistance of the conductive lines and the remainder of the voltage drop depends on the resistance of the switching layer of the memory element. The resistance of the switching layer can be much larger than the resistance of the conductive lines . As a result for a given external voltage applied to the multilayer structure e.g. via the CMOS circuitry in the base the memory elements positioned in the lower layer of the multilayer structure can be driven at a different internal voltage than the memory elements positioned in the higher layer which can affect performance.

Systems and methods described herein provide a three dimensional architecture that presents uniform junction resistance across memory elements in the 3D architecture. Described herein are multilayer structures of a plurality of interconnected memory elements where the active regions of the memory elements are configured to so that the memory elements are driven at uniform internal voltages across the multilayer architecture for a given external voltage applied to the multilayer structure.

The conductive layers and are normally conductive and can contribute minimally to the overall resistance of the memory element. The dopant level lateral dimensions and thickness land l of the conductive layers and are selected to optimize the performance of the memory elements for a given switching layer used. The overall resistance of a given memory element is controlled using the switching layer. In the example of the memory elements have approximately equal lateral dimensions the switching layer of the higher disposed memory element has thickness l and the switching layer of the lower disposed memory element has thickness l. The total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element of the higher layer is greater than the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element of the lower layer. In the example of the memory elements have similar dimensions in the x y plane so the thickness lof the switching layer is greater than the thickness lof switching layer to derive the desired relationship between resistance properties of the memory elements as discussed above. In this example where the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the higher disposed memory element is greater than the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the lower disposed memory element the thickness lof the switching layer is configured to be greater than the thickness lof the switching layer so that the memory elements present uniform electrical properties including uniform internal voltages regardless of position in the multilayer structure for a given external applied voltage. In other examples the higher disposed memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance than the lower disposed memory element by keeping the switching layer thicknesses about the same i.e. l l but either using a switching material of a higher resistivity in the switching layer of the higher disposed memory element or decreasing the lateral x y plane dimensions of the switching layer. In yet another example the higher disposed memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance using some combination of increasing the thickness of the switching layer using a switching material of a higher resistivity and or decreasing the lateral dimensions of the switching layer. Thus the example memory elements of can be driven at similar internal voltages for a given applied external voltage.

The memory elements in the example of are disposed in the same layer of the multilayer structure. However the conductive lines are configured in this example so that the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element on the right is greater than the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element on the left. According to the principles disclosed herein the memory element on the right is made to have a higher overall resistance than the memory element on the right so that the multilayer structure presents uniform junction resistance across the memory elements. The conductive layers and are can contribute minimally to the overall resistance of the memory element however the lateral dimensions and thickness land l of the conductive layers and can selected to optimize the performance of the memory elements. The overall resistance of the memory elements is controlled using the switching layer. In the example of the memory elements have approximately equal lateral dimensions the switching layer of the memory element on the right has thickness lthat is greater than the thickness lof switching layer of the memory element on the left to derive the desired relationship between resistance properties of the memory elements. In this example where the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element on the right is greater than the total resistance of conductive lines leading from the base to the memory element on the left the thickness lof the switching layer is configured to be greater than the thickness lof the switching layer so that the memory elements present uniform electrical properties including uniform internal voltages regardless of position in the multilayer structure for a given external applied voltage. In other examples the memory element on the right can be made to have a greater overall resistance than the memory element on the left by keeping the switching layer thicknesses about the same i.e. l l but either using a switching material of a higher resistivity in the switching layer of the higher disposed memory element or decreasing the lateral x y plane dimensions of the switching layer. In yet another example the memory element on the right in can be made to have a greater overall resistance using some combination of increasing the thickness of the switching layer using a switching material of a higher resistivity and or decreasing the lateral dimensions of the switching layer. Thus the example memory elements of can be driven at similar internal voltages for a given applied external voltage.

The principles described herein can be applied to the multilayer structure of as follows. In an example at least one of the memory elements of a higher layer can be configured to have a higher overall resistance than at least one memory element of a lower layer as previously described e.g. in connection with . In another example for memory elements in the same layer a memory element at a position reached by conductive lines of a higher total resistance for example but not limited to conductive lines of a greater total length can be configured to have a higher overall resistance than a memory element at a position reached by conductive lines of a lower total resistance as previously described e.g. in connection with . In yet another example different memory elements of the multilayer structure can be formed using some combination of these two principles i.e. the principles illustrated and described in connection with .

In the example of conductive lines can be driven independently using the external applied voltage in each layer and conductive lines in all layers are illustrated as connected in common. However it is also contemplated that conductive lines may be driven independently in each layer using the external applied voltage. Alternatively conductive lines may be connected in common and conductive lines may be driven independently using the external applied voltage. Further at least one of conductive lines and conductive lines may be shared by upper and lower layers of the multilayer structure. The CMOS circuitry can be configured to selectively address including applying external voltages to ones of the memory elements using the conductive lines .

Different types of conductive lines form the conductive path that leads from the base to the memory elements of the crossbar arrays of the example multilayer structure of . One type of conductive line is wiring layers i 1 . . . 3 that are interposed between successive crossbar arrays see . Another type of conductive line that form the conductive path that connects the crossbar array to the base is two groups of vias see . A first group of vias connects to the lower crossbar lines nanowires and a second group of vias connects to the upper crossbar lines nanowires . The second vias pass through all the crossbar arrays and wiring layers as a vertical column. In contrast the locations of the first vias are shifted in each successive wiring layer . also shows a top view of the first vias and second vias in the 2D crossbar array. Portions of the nanowires between the memory elements also serve as conductive lines. The use of the conductive lines including the wiring layers first vias second vias lower crossbar lines nanowires and upper crossbar lines nanowires to uniquely address including applying voltages to read data and or to write data i.e. set to an ON or OFF state to the memory elements in the multilayer structure of is described in greater detail in international application no. PCT US2009 039666 filed Apr. 6 2009 titled Three Dimensional Multilayer Circuit which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The CMOS circuitry can be configured to selectively address including applying external voltages to ones of the memory elements using the conductive lines including the wiring layers first vias second vias lower crossbar lines nanowires and upper crossbar lines nanowires .

Although individual nanowires in are shown with rectangular cross sections nanowires can also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The nanowires may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities. The crossbar lines may have one or more layers of sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger dimensions in addition to nanowires.

The principles described herein can be applied to the multilayer structure of as follows. In an example at least one of the memory elements of a higher crossbar array can be configured to have a higher overall resistance than at least one memory element of a lower crossbar array as previously described e.g. in connection with . In another example for memory elements in the same crossbar array layer a memory element at a position reached by conductive lines of a higher total resistance for example but not limited to conductive lines of a greater total length can be configured to have a higher overall resistance than a memory element at a position reached by conductive lines of a lower total resistance as previously described e.g. in connection with . In yet another example different memory elements of the multilayer structure can be formed using some combination of these two principles i.e. the principles illustrated and described in connection with .

The three dimensional multilayer structures described above could be used in a variety of applications. For example the multilayer structures could be used as a very high density memory which replaces Dynamic Random Access Memory for computing applications incorporated into a high density portable storage device that replaces flash memory and other removable storage devices for cell phones cameras net book and other portable applications a very high density storage medium to replace magnetic hard disks and other forms of permanent or semi permanent storage of digital data and or a very high density cache or other memory integrated on top of a computer processor chip to replace Static Random Access Memory. For example the memory elements described herein can be used in applications using different types of memory e.g. capacitor variable capacitor floating gate transistor four transistor feed back loop circuit or magnetic tunnel junction in commercialized DRAM FeRAM NOR flash SRAM or MRAM technologies correspondingly. The read write operations may not be the same for the different types of memories but in general e.g. read involves sensing either the charge of a particular memory element or passing current through the memory element.

In sum the three dimensional multilayer structures described above provides memory circuits having a multilayer architecture of memory elements that present uniform electrical properties including uniform internal voltages regardless of position in the multilayer structure for a given external applied voltage. Memory elements that are accessed in the multilayer structure by conductive lines leading from the base with a higher total resistance are configured to have a higher overall resistance than memory elements that are accessed by conductive lines leading from the base with a lower total resistance. A memory element can be made to have a greater overall resistance by increasing the thickness of the switching layer using a switching material of a higher resistivity increasing the lateral dimensions of the switching layer or some combination thereof.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

