---

title: Call control presence
abstract: Included are embodiments for detecting presence in a call control protocol environment. At least one embodiment of a method includes subscribing to events associated with a communication system and receiving a notification for an event, the event being associated with a communication between a first communications device and a second communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139741&OS=08139741&RS=08139741
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08139741
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 608 440 filed Dec. 8 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 848 598 filed Sep. 29 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 848 591 filed Sep. 29 2006 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to recording capabilities in a communications network. More specifically this disclosure relates to recording in a Session Initiation Protocol configured network.

As communication technologies evolve the functionality provided to users may improve. More specifically Time Division Multiplexing TDM networks have historically provided communications functionality to call centers and customers. However the introduction of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks and similar technologies have provided the opportunity for call centers to provide improved services to customers recording of incoming and outgoing communications and monitoring of the recorded communications. While the utilization of VoIP networks has expanded the capabilities for call centers VoIP may utilize protocols and technologies that have not historically been utilized. As such limitations may exist within a VoIP network.

As a nonlimiting example in many current VoIP environments recording a communication may include passive taps passive sniffing and or bridge connections. In such configurations one or more parties may not realize that a recording is taking place. Additionally determining presence data associated with a user of a communications device in an VoIP environment may be unavailable.

Included are embodiments for detecting presence in a call control protocol environment. At least one embodiment of a method includes subscribing to events associated with a communication system and receiving a notification for an event the event being associated with a communication between a first communications device and a second communications device.

Also included are embodiments of a system for detecting presence in a call control protocol environment. At least one embodiment includes a subscribing component configured to subscribe to events associated with a communication system and a receiving component configured to receive a notification for an event the event being associated with a communication between a first communications device and a second communications device.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Session Initiation Protocol SIP is an application layer control simple signaling protocol for Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP implementations. SIP is a textual client server based protocol that the end user systems and recorder controllers can utilize to provide call forwarding callee and caller number identification basic Automatic Call Distribution ACD and personal mobility among others.

SIP addresses may generally take the form of a Uniform Resource Locator URL . The SIP addresses can be embedded in Web pages and therefore can be integrated as part of implementations such as Click to talk for example. SIP using simple protocol structure provides fast operation flexibility scalability and multiservice support. SIP provides its own reliability mechanism. SIP creates modifies and terminates sessions with one or more participants. These sessions include Internet multimedia conferences Internet telephone calls and multimedia distribution. Members in a session can communicate using multicast or using a mesh of unicast relations or a combination of these. SIP invitations used to create sessions carry session descriptions which allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types.

SIP supports user mobility by proxying and redirecting requests to a user s current location which may be registered by the user. SIP is not tied to any particular conference control protocol. SIP may be designed to be independent of a low layer transport protocol and can be extended with additional capabilities. SIP transparently supports name mapping and redirection services allowing the implementation of Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Intelligent Network telephony subscriber services. These facilities also enable personal mobility that is based on the use of a unique personal identity. SIP supports five facets of establishing and terminating multimedia communications 1 user location 2 user capabilities 3 user availability 4 call setup and 5 call handling.

SIP can also initiate multi party calls using a multipoint control unit MCU or fully meshed interconnection instead of multicast. Internet telephony gateways that connect Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN parties can also use SIP to set up calls between them. SIP is designed as part of a multimedia data and control architecture currently incorporating protocols such as Resource Reservation Protocol RSVP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP and Service Advertising Protocol SAP among others. However the functionality and operation of SIP does not depend on any of these protocols. SIP can also be used in conjunction with other call setup and signaling protocols. As such an end system uses SIP exchanges to determine the appropriate end system address and protocol from a given address that is protocol independent. As a nonlimiting example SIP could be used to determine that the party can be reached using H.323 to find the H.245 gateway and user address and then use H.225.0 to establish the call.

Also coupled to network is a call center . Call center may be coupled to network via local network however this is not a requirement. Call center may be configured to provide customer service to users on communications devices via agents on communications devices and or . Also coupled to local network is a call control server which may be configured to receive a communication and determine where to route the received communication. Call control server may also include other logic for facilitating communications with call center .

Also coupled to local network is a recorder controller . Recorder controller may be configured to receive a communication and determine a technique for recording the communication. In the nonlimiting example of recorder controller includes recording logic for recording a communication between one or more of the communications devices and and communications devices and

Also coupled to local network is a recording center . Recording center may be configured as a Session Initiation Protocol SIP recording center as discussed in more detail below and may include one or more recorder controllers . Recorder controller may include recording logic as discussed above and or may include routing logic for receiving data related to a communication and determining which recorder and or to send the data for recording. Recorders and may be configured to record data associated with a communication among communications devices .

Additionally coupled to network is a local network which is coupled to agent communications devices and . Network is also coupled to recording center via local network . Local network is coupled to a plurality of recorder controllers and a plurality of recorders and

One should note that while the nonlimiting example of illustrates various components coupled to network this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically depending on the particular embodiment any configuration of network components can be arranged in a distributed manner. More specifically in at least one embodiment recording subsystem may be coupled to a local network while one or more recorder controllers may be directly coupled to network . Other configurations are also contemplated.

Referring now to the recorder controller instructs the call control server via line to redirect the calls to a recorder . The call control server instructs agent communications device gateways not shown media duplication systems not shown and other telephony components to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams to the recorder . The call control server communicates with the recorder to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The agent communications device transmits the duplicated media streams to the recorder via line .

Referring to the recorder controller proxies the call and directs an agent communications device to send the duplicated media streams directly to recorder . The recorder controller communicates with the recorder to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The call control server instructs with the agent communications device to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams directly to the recorder . The agent communications device transmits the duplicated media streams directly to the recorder via line .

Referring to the recorder controller proxies the call as well as the duplicated media streams. The recorder controller communicates with the recorder to establish a dialog for recording the duplicated media streams via line . The call control server instructs the agent communications device to duplicate the media streams and transmit the duplicated media streams to the recorder controller . The agent communications device transmits the duplicated media streams to the recorder controller via line . The recorder controller receives the duplicated media streams and transmits the duplicated media streams to the recorder via line .

Referring to call control server receives communication data and sends a recording invitation to recorder . Upon receiving the recording invitation recorder sends data indicating whether recorder is available. If recorder is available agent communications device sends communications data to recorder . If recorder is not available call controller may determine another recorder for recording the communication data.

In communicating with recorders and or recorder controller recorder controllers in may utilize call control calls such as SIP H323 etc. which may or may not be the same as the protocol used to communicate with the telephony system. The recorder controller may also use other protocols to communicate with the recorders .

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the client device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. One should note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor . Additionally volatile and nonvolatile memory can include routing logic recording logic presence logic and an operating system .

The software in volatile and nonvolatile memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may include routing logic recording logic presence logic as well as operating system . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component and or module embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system .

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display speaker etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a media duplication system a router etc.

Additionally included are one or more network interfaces for facilitating communication with one or more other devices. More specifically network interface may include any component configured to facilitate a connection with another device. While in some embodiments among others the recorder controller can include a network interface that includes a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card also abbreviated as PC card for receiving a wireless network card however this is a nonlimiting example. Other configurations can include the communications hardware within the computing device such that a wireless network card is unnecessary for communicating wirelessly. Similarly other embodiments include network interfaces for communicating via a wired connection. Such interfaces may be configured with Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces serial ports and or other interfaces.

If recorder controller includes a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the operating system and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the client device is activated.

When recorder controller is in operation the processor may be configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the client device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part may be read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

One should note that while the description with respect to includes a recorder controller as a single component this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment recorder controller can include a plurality of servers personal computers and or other devices. Similarly while routing logic recording logic and presence logic are each illustrated in as single software components this is also a nonlimiting example. In at least one embodiment presence logic may include one or more components embodied in software hardware and or firmware. Similarly routing logic and or recording logic may include one or more logical components. Additionally while routing logic presence logic and recording logic are depicted as residing on a single computing device such as recorder controller may include one or more devices presence logic may include one or more components residing on one or more different devices.

Similarly while the discussion with regard to refers to a recorder controller similar components may also be included in other elements discussed herein. More specifically a recorder communications device recorder controller call control server and or other network elements may include similar components and or functionality.

The embodiments discussed above may refer to a Session Initiation Protocol SIP recording center configured to allow a call center as well as and collectively referred to as to integrate to a flexible integration point between recordable VoIP resources and the and other components associated with the call center . In at least one embodiment calls directed to a call center can be terminated at the call center and recorded by the by the call center . This allows the call center to develop add ons and duplicate the interactions to a recording system. The recording center can be configured to record all or a subset of interactions and prevent the development of error prone integration points for every call center.

The recording center may be configured to act as a generic SIP endpoint emulating an SIP phone and or an SIP trunk. One or more components may be present in at least one embodiment of a recording center . First a recorder that terminates Real Time Protocol RTP endpoints to receive audio or other media associated with the communication. Second a recorder controller may be included and may be responsible for controlling the actions of one or more recorders . The recorder controller may be configured to direct the recorders to receive media on open ports instruct the recorders when to start and stop recordings on those ports and tag the recording information to the recorders e.g. associate data with the recording . Third the recorder controller may also responsible for an SIP stack. The stack may receive SIP INVITEs and or other SIP messages make internal decisions on whether or not this specific interaction should be recorded find a recorder which has resources to perform the recording. The stack and control the recording both on the SIP side as well as the recorder side. Fourth the recording center may include an application tier that may be configured to provide at a minimum applications to search and replay the interactions recorded. An integration framework may also be included and may be responsible for the import of switch data from the call center .

One should note that tagging a recording e.g. associating data with a recording may be utilized for retrieval and or replay such that an administrator or other party can find the recording based on the values tagged to the recording. Tagging may be utilized via Calling Line Identifier CLI Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS queue agent name and or other types of tagging.

Additionally there may be one or more integration points associated with the call center . SIP integration may be a point of integration. SIP integration may be a first integration point that a call center may perform. Depending on the particular configuration interactions going through the call center may be duplicated since the call center may be configured to provide one or more decision sources for indicating when an interaction is to be recorded. This may be useful since the call center depending on the particular embodiment may be encouraged to expose a configuration concerning whether and or when to record a single extension communication device group of agents and or any other business level objects associated with the call center .

Another integration point may include an extended tagging integration. This may include a second integration point and may be configured to extend tagging information on the interaction. This integration may be accomplished from the above described integration point and may be configured to provide tagging on integration. More specifically in at least one embodiment tagging associated with the From party and the CallID from the SIP INVITE message may be provided. As described in more detail below Extended Tagging Integration ETI may be configured to provide additional attributes related to the interaction that can be sent to the recording center. In at least one nonlimiting example the tagging may be sent to the call center utilizing an INFO message. A call center configuration import interface not shown may also be included. If attributes are not sent to the call center an administrators may be required to perform dual maintenance concerning employees and equipment associated with the call center.

The SIP Calls interactions between the recording center and the call center may be configured to include one way media traveling from the call center to the recording center. The recording center may be configured to support both recordings with a single stream from the call center and recordings with multiple streams preferably one stream per party in the initial interaction . In both cases one or more of the streams may arrive as separate SIP communications.

In the case of a single stream a single recording SIP communication interaction may be setup between the call center and the recording center . If there is more than one stream from the call center one or more of the streams may arrive on different SIP Calls interactions between the call center and recording center . To associate the separate interactions together a single unique identifier may be utilized for the interactions. This unique identifier may arrive as the value to an x callref tag in the From field and or as an X Call ID header on the communication. The following examples demonstrate embodiments of a unique identifier 

In at least one embodiment the call center may be configured to treat interactions as duplicates of the original interactions and not treat the recording center as a conferenced party. There may be a plurality of reasons for this one of which may be the desire for the call center to have the ability to implement duplicate media streaming functionality in the handsets gateways or other systems in the call center.

Additionally media sessions can be established between the endpoints and the recorders instead of going through central resources which decreases network utilization. Thus if the recording session fails this does not indicate the state of the original interaction should move to a failed state. The recording interaction may be considered as a separate interaction instead of being part of the original interaction since the involved parties should not be aware of the recording session. The recording interaction can be maintained for a specific communications device and or interaction even when the interactions themselves are being renegotiated due to a conference silence suppression and or other reason. This means the recording interaction can be setup as a superset of SIP calls between parties.

A recorder can support more concurrent interaction recordings in cases where the default packet size is larger than 20 ms. In at least one embodiment the parties of the call may notice the quality of the call decreasing when the packet sizes increase. Since the recording center records calls and plays them back at a later time increasing the packet size may not affect the quality unless there are major network issues. In addition this may reduce the effect on the network of recording and allow the recorder to handle more concurrent recordings.

Additionally included in this disclosure is an extended tagging integration. The extended tagging integration allows for tagging to be performed on the recording integration. There are some extended SIP headers that may be created to allow this information to be passed from the call center to the recording center. The recording center may be configured to support the following headers 

The X CallPartyInfo header may be used to convey information about a party in the interaction. The party may be a known agent or supervisor or unknown customer party. There may be one or more X CallPartyInfos in an SIP message. A recording interaction with a single mixed stream may include the X CallPartyInfos for a single SIP Call. A recording interaction with multiple streams where each stream is treated as a separate SIP Call may have the X CallPartyInfos associated with the stream on the specific SIP Call. The value of the X CallPartyInfo header may contain the display name of the party the SIP URI if one exists and the party s role in the interaction. If the SIP URI is not defined for a party the SIP URI field will be just . The role may include one or more of the following values Caller Called Observer Transferred Conferenced Consulted and or other formats. The format of the X CallPartyInfo header may include X CallPartyInfo DisplayName tag value . The following are nonlimiting examples using the syntax described above 

The X CallInfo header may be used to send information about the interaction as a whole. This header may include a set of key value pairs for each known property of the interaction. Some of these attributes may not make sense at the beginning of the call and or may be changed during the call. The UAC call center may then send these attributes using the INFO request or the final BYE request. A recording interaction with multiple SIP calls may have this header on a single SIP Call. The preferable call is the first call setup with the RC.

The following keys may also be associated with the communication data. CLI Caller Line Information may represent information about the caller including the address e.g. URI from where a customer is calling and the customer s name. In a TDM Timed Division Multiplexing environment this may include the full 10 digit telephone number in the United Stated . In a true VoIP environment the CLI may include the From header Display Name and SIP URI of the original call.

One should note that the above description is included as a nonlimiting example. More specifically the description above is used to illustrate the sending of CTI and party information related to a call and is not necessarily limited to the protocol and or headers described above.

Another key that may be associated with a communication is a DNIS Dialed Number Identification Service . The DNIS may include the address first dialed to setup the interaction. Completion Reason may also be included. Completion Reason may include a code and or string indicating why the interaction was stopped. External Interaction ID is an external value that can be tagged to interactions that are related. This may cover completely separate recording interactions in the recording center. Route Point is a queue on a switch or any directory number the interaction traversed before being routed to the current party. A plurality of keys may exist to indicate a plurality of Route Points the interaction traversed.

 Agent Skill includes the Skill Hunt Group and or Agent Group that is associated with the call center . This would give an indication of why the call was routed to the specific party. Number Of Holds may include a count of the number of times this interaction was put on hold. Number Of Transfers may include a count of the number of times the remote party was transferred in the call center. Number Of Conferences may include a count of the number of times the remote party was conferenced at the call center. Number Of Parties may include a total number of parties on the call. This may match the number of X CallPartyInfo recorders received however this is not a requirement.

 Call Direction may be configured to indicate the initial direction of the call. Values associated with call direction may include inbound an interaction that was received at the call center outbound an interaction that is initiated at the call center and is sent to another system and internal between two parties on the call center . Held Time may include the total amount of time the interaction was on hold. Interaction Duration may include the total amount of time of the interaction. The call center may also be configured to send in any custom key to tag other data into the recording center . The data may be accessible to the recording center for searching replay and business rule evaluations. The format of the X CallInfo header will be as follows X CallInfo key value key value. A nonlimiting example might include X CallInfo 

CLI 7705551212 DNIS 8001234567 RoutePoint 9200 RoutePoint 9421 NumberOf Holds 1 HeldTime 67 CallDirection Inbound CusomterAccountNumber 87654321 IssueLevel Severe.

The call control server may then receive copied communication data from the agent communication device block . More specifically in at least one embodiment communication device may include logic for duplicating a media stream associated with a communication. During the communication communications device can copy and depending on the embodiment manipulate data associated with the communication and send the copied data to call control serve . The copied data may include voice data video data and or other data sent between an agent and a customer. The call control server can then send at least a portion of the received data to a recorder block .

Additionally as discussed above the call control server may also be configured to include at least one SIP header with the data sent to a recorder. As such presence data may be conveyed to an administrator and or other party. Similarly some embodiments may be configured such that media may be received from the call control server a gateway and or other Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP device. Further some embodiments may be configured such that a gateway may exercise at least a portion of the functionality of the agent communications device.

The agent communications device can create a communications link with a recorder and or recorder server as shown in block . The agent communications device can then copy communication data associated with the current communication block . The agent communications device can then send the copied data to a recorder block .

As discussed above the agent communications device can include with the copied data SIP header data to be sent to the recorder and or recorder server . The header data may be configured to provide data to a recorder an administrator and or other party.

Additionally as discussed above upon receiving the copied data the recorder controller may be configured to determine recorder bandwidth recorder capabilities and other data to determine a desired recorder to send the received data. Additionally in configurations with a plurality of recorder controllers the communications device can determine which recorder controller to send copied data.

Recorder subsystem can then receive a notification associated with a communication block . Recorder subsystem can then determine whether to record the communication block . If recorder subsystem determines to record the communication recorder subsystem can invoke a recording block .

One should note that utilization of header data as discussed above can facilitate invocation of a recording. More specifically while in many nonlimiting examples a communications device sends a request for a recording in this nonlimiting example recorder subsystem actively invokes a recording according to one or more received SIP headers. As such the recording subsystem recorder controller and or other components of a recording center may have greater control of recording capabilities.

Recorder controller may extract tagging information associated with the presence data block . Call control server can set up a communications link between a caller and an agent block . Call control server can then route the received call to the agent block . A communications device associated with the agent then sends an invite to recorder controller block . Recorder controller can then determine current recording resources block . Recorder controller may determine a destination for the communications data block . Agent communications device then sends data to the determined destination block .

One should note that in at least one exemplary embodiment determining whether the record data associated with a communication may depend at least in part on business rules of the customer center customer and or other entity. As a nonlimiting example a business rule may include a rule to record all calls record calls longer than a predetermined duration shorter than a predetermination calls between certain parties and or other business rules.

Similarly embodiments of the process described in may also include subscribing to events associated with one or more device in a communications system and or subscribing to events associated with the communications system as a whole. In this nonlimiting example the recorder controller may be notified of communications associated with these subscriptions.

Additionally a customer center may include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. At least one embodiment disclosed herein is implemented in software and or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

One should also note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

