---

title: Ink dispersion
abstract: An ink dispersion includes an ink vehicle and a colorant dispersed in the ink vehicle. The ink vehicle includes a non-ionic surfactant and a solvent. The non-ionic surfactant has an HLB value ranges from about 5 to about 16, and is chosen from: i) a material represented by one of the formulas R—O—(OR)—H, R—(OR)—OH or R—CH—(OR)—OH, wherein: Ris chosen from a) a linear or cyclic alkyl group including from 3 to 20 carbon atoms, or b) a substituted or non-substituted alkyl group including from 6 to 18 carbon atoms, Ris chosen from CHCHor CHCHCH, and n is an integer chosen from 2 to 100; or ii) a diester having at least one ethylene oxide repeating unit; or iii) an octylphenol having at least one ethylene oxide repeating unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08764894&OS=08764894&RS=08764894
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08764894
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
Recycling processes may be used to regenerate usable cellulose fibers from waste papers. These recycling processes may involve a deinking method where ink is removed from waste paper pulp. In some cases the deinking method includes applying deinking chemicals to waste paper which interact with and remove the inked portions of the paper. Such deinking processes may in some instances pose a challenge for the recycling of some digitally inked papers.

Processes for recycling printed waste papers in some instances involve converting the waste paper into a pulp and then contacting the pulp with deinking chemicals. The deinking chemicals interact with the ink and then separate the ink from the waste paper. This recycling process has suitably been used for waste papers printed using offset inks but some challenges may exist for separating and removing digital inks from waste papers. For instance traditional deinking involves removing ink particulates falling within a size range of about 10 microns to about 100 microns. Some challenges with removing digital ink particularly digital pigment based inkjet inks or digital dye based inkjet inks include finding a solution to aggregate the pigment particles or the dye molecules into a desired size range and changing the particles molecules physical properties from being too hydrophilic to more hydrophobic. It has been found that some existing deinking chemistries do not in some instances efficiently separate the ink from fibers of a waste paper. It is believed that the challenge s is are due at least in part to the material composition and or properties of the digital ink which may in some instances adversely interact or not at all with the deinking chemicals used by the recycling mill. In many cases the digital ink cannot be separated and removed from the waste paper to an extent required for adequate waste paper recycling.

Without being bound to any theory it is believed that digital inks may suitably be separated from waste papers by including therein examples of the deinking component s disclosed herein. The deinking component s that are incorporated into the digital ink may in some cases aid in the interaction of the colorants with deinking chemicals that are introduced during a typical deinking process to assist in separating and removing the digital inks from the waste papers. As such the incorporation of the deinking component s into the ink dispersion advantageously allows the deinking of digitally printed waste papers to be accomplished using existing recycling practices with existing recycling mills. Since examples of the present deinking component s may be incorporated into digital inks the deinking component s is are in close proximity to the colorant particles. This allows the deinking component s to favorably interact with the digital ink upon pulping of the waste paper during waste paper recycling.

Example s of the ink dispersion also referred to as an ink herein as disclosed herein include an ink vehicle and a colorant dispersed in the ink vehicle. A deinking component is incorporated into the ink vehicle as will be described in detail below. In an example the ink dispersions having the deinking component incorporated therein are digital inks. As used herein a digital ink is a liquid composition a solid composition or a composition having a phase that is between a liquid and a solid e.g. a paste where any of the inks are printable via a digital printer or printing system. Some examples of digital printers or printing systems include digital inkjet printers electrophotographic printers or combinations thereof. It is to be understood however that the ink dispersion may also or otherwise be pigment based inks dye based inks pigment dye based inks traditional offset inks and or the like. In other words the deinking component incorporated into the ink dispersion effectively interacts with the colorant of the foregoing inks to suitably separate the colorant from the waste paper during traditional waste paper recycling.

In an example the ink dispersion is a water based ink dispersion and the ink vehicle of this dispersion is a combination of at least the deinking component and one or more solvents. This combination forms a vehicle in which the colorant is placed to form an example of the ink dispersion.

As briefly mentioned above the deinking component incorporated into the vehicle is configured to interact with the colorant during waste paper recycling to ultimately remove the ink from a printed medium. The inventors of the instant disclosure have unexpectedly and fortuitously discovered that a non ionic surfactant having a hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB value falling within a suitable range acts as a displector in the ink when the ink is exposed to a frother during waste paper recycling. As used herein the term displector refers to a component that functions as i a dispersant to separate colorant particles from the printed waste paper and ii a collector to aggregate certain colorant particles e.g. molecular dyes nanometer sized pigment particles or the like to larger particles e.g. micron sized pigment particles during pulping.

It has further been discovered that examples of the deinking component included in the vehicle is an active deinking component that facilitates suitable deinking of at least digital inks from fibers of a medium and or coating compositions established on the medium prior to inking. The deinking component may also be suitably jetted from a thermal or piezoelectric inkjet printhead.

When the deinking component includes a non ionic surfactant the non ionic surfactant chosen for examples of the ink dispersion exhibits all of the foregoing properties and or functionalities and is compatible with hydrophobic or hydrophilic colorants. In an example the non ionic surfactant may be represented by one of the following formulas R O OR H R OR OH or R CH OR OH. In these formulas Rmay be chosen for example from i a linear or cyclic alkyl group including from 3 to 20 carbon atoms but not a branched alkyl group or ii a substituted or non substituted alkyl group including from 6 to 18 carbon atoms or in some instances including from 12 to 18 carbon atoms. Further Rmay be chosen from CHCHor CHCHCH. The letter n is an integer chosen from 2 to 100 or in some instances from 2 to 50. In an example n may be an integer chosen from 2 to 20.

The non ionic surfactant may also be chosen from an ethoxylated fatty alcohol represented by the formula CH CH OCHCH OH where m is an integer ranging from 1 to 18 and n is an integer ranging from 1 to 200. Several examples of this non ionic surfactant are set forth below. Of these examples the following ethoxylated fatty alcohols were found to be useful as a deinking component incorporated into the ink dispersion. These examples include polyethylene glycol hexadecyl ether CH OCHCH OH such as BRIJ 52 commercially available from Croda International Corp. UK polyethylene glycol dodecyl ether CH OCHCH OH such as BRIJ 30 P4391 commercially available from Croda International Corp. polyethylene glycol stearate CH CH COO CHCHO H such as MYRJ 45 commercially available from Atlas Chemical Industries Inc. Marion Iowa polyoxyethylene 10 oleoyl ether CH OCHCH OH such as BRIJ 97 commercially available from Croda International Corp. polyoxyethylene 20 oleyl ether CH OCHCH OH such as BRIJ 98 commercially available from Croda International Corp. and combinations thereof. The ethoxylated fatty alcohol may also be an octylphenol having at least one ethylene oxide repeating unit. An example of a suitable octylphenol includes octylphenol ethoxylates such as TRITON X 114 TRITON X 405 TRITON X 45 and TRITON X 705 commercially available from Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. .

Some further examples of non ionic surfactants that may be used as a deinking component in the ink dispersion include decaethylene glycol monododecyl ether diethylene glycol monodecyl ether diethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether diethylene glycol monooctyl ether diethylene glycol monotetradecyl ether ethylene glycol monodecyl ether ethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether ethylene glycol monooctadecyl ether ethylene glycol monooctyl ether heptaethylene glycol monodecyl ether heptaethylene glycol monododecyl ether heptaethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether hexaethylene glycol monodecyl ether hexaethylene glycol monododecyl ether hexaethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether hexaethylene glycol monooctadecyl ether hexaethylene glycol monotetradecyl ether octylphenyl polyethylene glycol such as IGEPAL CA 630 commercially available from Xiamen Topusing Chemical Co. Ltd. China nonylphenyl polyethylene glycol such as NONIDET P 40 Substitute commercially available from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. octaethylene glycol monodecyl ether octaethylene glycol monododecyl ether octaethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether octaethylene glycol monotetradecyl ether pentaethylene glycol monodecyl ether pentaethylene glycol monododecyl ether pentaethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether pentaethylene glycol monohexyl ether pentaethylene glycol monooctadecyl ether pentaethylene glycol monooctyl ether pentaethylene glycol monotetradecyl ether polyoxyethylene 10 tridecyl ether polyoxyethylene 8 stearate polyoxyethylene 25 propylene glycol stearate steareth 100 tetraethylene glycol monodecyl ether tetraethylene glycol monododecyl ether tetraethylene glycol monohexadecyl ether tetraethylene glycol monooctadecyl ether tetraethylene glycol monooctyl ether tetraethylene glycol monotetradecyl ether polyethylene glycol p 1 1 3 3 tetramethylbutyl phenyl ether TRITON X 100 commercially available from Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. and combinations thereof.

In an example the ink dispersion may include a single non ionic surfactant. In another example the ink dispersion may include a combination of two or more non ionic surfactants.

In another example the non ionic surfactant may be chosen from a diester having at least one ethylene oxide repeating unit. The diester may be represented by the formula CH CH COO CHCHO OC CH CH where m is an integer ranging from 6 to 25 and n is an integer ranging from 5 to 15. Some examples of diesters that may be used include poly ethylene glycol distearate poly ethylene glycol palmitate and or combinations thereof.

As mentioned above the non ionic surfactant chosen for the deinking component has an HLB value falling within a preferred range. As used herein the HLB value refers to the hydrophile lipophile balance of a molecule where the value tends to increase with increasing hydrophilicity. The HLB value of the non ionic surfactant may be calculated using methods disclosed in e.g. Griffin W. C. Classification of Surface Active Agents by HLB Journal of the Society of Cosmetic Chemists 1 1949 pg. 311 and Griffin W. C. Calculation of HLB Values of Nonionic Surfactants Journal of the Society of Cosmetic Chemists 5 1954 pg. 259 the relevant contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. In an example the non ionic surfactant s chosen for the deinking component have an HLB value ranging from about 5 to about 16. In another example the non ionic surfactant s have an HLB value ranging from about 8 to about 13.

In an example the deinking component may further include an anionic surfactant or a cationic surfactant. These surfactants are included in the ink dispersion in addition to the non ionic surfactant and are used to facilitate pigment dispersion stability via e.g. physisorption onto the pigment surface s . Some examples of suitable anionic surfactants include alkyl sulfates sodium dodecyl sulfate 1 octanesulfonic acid sodium salt docusate sodium lithium dodecyl sulfate N lauroylsarcosine sodium salt N lauroylsarcosine sodium tetradecyl sulfate such as NIAPROOF 4 commercially available from Niacet Corporation Niagra Falls N.Y. sodium 1 butanesulfonate sodium 1 decanesulfonate sodium 1 nonanesulfonate sodium 1 heptanesulfonate sodium 1 propanesulfonate sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate sodium hexanesulfonate sodium octyl sulfate sodium pentanesulfonate and combinations thereof. Some examples of suitable cationic surfactants include polyamine based surfactants such as those included in the SOLSPERSE family Lubrizol Corp. Wickliffe Ohio.

In an example the deinking component includes the non ionic surfactant alone which is present in the ink dispersion in an amount ranging from about 0.1 wt to about 30 wt with respect to the colorant loading. In another example the non ionic surfactant is present in the ink dispersion in an amount ranging from about 0.25 wt to about 2 wt with respect to the colorant loading.

In instances where the deinking component further includes an anionic surfactant or a cationic surfactant the loading of the non ionic surfactant is at least twice the loading of the anionic surfactant or cationic surfactant. In an example the anionic surfactant and or the cationic surfactant is present in an amount ranging from about 1 wt to about 10 wt with respect to the colorant loading and the non ionic surfactant is present in an amount ranging from about 2 wt to about 20 wt with respect to the colorant loading.

For the examples of the water based ink dispersions disclosed herein in an example the solvent is chosen from water. In another example the ink dispersion also includes a co solvent chosen from 1 2 hexanediol 2 pyrrolidinone di 2 hydroxyethyl 5 5 dimethylhydantoin such as DANTOCOL DHE commercially available from Lonza Inc. Allendale N.J. and combinations thereof. In an example the total amount of co solvent ranges from about 0.1 wt to about 30 wt of a total weight percent wt of the ink dispersion. In another example the total amount of co solvent ranges from about 0.5 wt to about 10 wt . In yet another example the ink dispersion includes from about 2 wt to about 5 wt 1 2 hexanediol and or from about 4 wt to about 8 wt 2 pyrrolidinone and or from about 4 wt to about 8 wt di 2 hydroxyethyl 5 5 dimethylhydantoin.

In some examples the ink vehicle may include an additive such as e.g. a biocide a buffering agent a chelating agent and or the like. In one example the ink vehicle includes a biocide present in an amount ranging from about 0.01 wt to about 0.2 wt of a total weight percent of the ink dispersion.

As previously mentioned the ink dispersion further includes a colorant. As used herein the term colorant refers to i one or more pigments ii one or more dyes or iii combinations of pigment s and dye s . In an example the colorant may be present in the ink dispersion in an amount ranging from about 3 wt to about 6 wt . In two examples the colorant may be chosen from pigment particles that are self dispersible in the ink vehicle or a combination of a dye and a self dispersing pigment. In two other examples the colorant may be chosen from pigment particles that are non self dispersible in the ink vehicle or a combination of a dye and a non self dispersing pigment. In these latter examples the printing composition includes in addition to the ink vehicle and the non self dispersible pigment or the ink vehicle and the dye non self dispersible pigment one or more dispersants e.g. an anionic or cationic surfactant to disperse and stabilize the pigment s .

When utilized the dispersant is selected so that it is at least partially soluble in the ink vehicle. The dispersant may be chosen from anionic dispersants cationic dispersants non ionic dispersants polymeric dispersants oligomeric dispersants crosslinking dispersants or combinations thereof. Examples of anionic dispersants include sulfosuccinic acid and derivatives thereof such as for instance alkyl sulfosuccinates e.g. GEROPON SBFA 30 and GEROPON SSO 75 both of which are manufactured by Rhodia Boulogne Billancourt France and docusate sodium. Examples of cationic dispersants include quaternary amine polymers protonated amine polymers or polymers containing aluminum such as those that are available from Lubrizol Corp. Wickliffe Ohio . Further examples of cationic dispersants include SOLSPERSE 19000 Lubrizol Corp. and other like cationic dispersants. Some examples of non ionic dispersants include oil soluble polyesters polyamines polyacrylates polymethacrylates. Some examples of oligomeric dispersants include low average molecular weight i.e. less than 1000 non ionic dispersants. Examples of cross linking dispersants include polymers or oligomers containing two or more carbon double bonds C C and free amine groups such as e.g. polyamines crosslinkable polyurethanes and divinyl benzene.

When a dispersant is used the dispersant may be included in an amount ranging from about 1 wt to about 20 wt of the ink composition.

In the examples where the colorant is or includes a pigment the pigment may be chosen from organic or inorganic pigment particles and these particles may have any particle size that allows the composition including the pigment to be printed from the digital printer. In an example the particle size of the pigments ranges from about 1 nm to about 1 m. In another example the particle size of the pigments ranges from about 100 nm to about 500 nm. In still another example the particle size ranges from about 10 nm to about 100 nm. Organic or inorganic pigment particles may be chosen from black pigment particles yellow pigment particles magenta pigment particles red pigment particles cyan pigment particles blue pigment particles green pigment particles orange pigment particles brown pigment particles white pigment particles and combinations thereof. In some instances the organic or inorganic pigment particles may include spot color or specialty pigment particles. Spot color pigments are formed from a combination of a predefined ratio of two or more primary color pigment particles. Specialty pigments may e.g. be metallic fluorescent and or opalescent pigments.

An example of a suitable inorganic black pigment includes carbon black. Examples of carbon black pigments include those manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Japan such as e.g. carbon black No. 2300 No. 900 MCF88 No. 33 No. 40 No. 45 No. 52 MA7 MA8 MA100 and No. 2200B various carbon black pigments of the RAVEN series manufactured by Columbian Chemicals Company Marietta Ga. such as e.g. RAVEN 5750 RAVEN 5250 RAVEN 5000 RAVEN 3500 RAVEN 1255 and RAVEN 700 various carbon black pigments of the REGAL series the MOGUL series or the MONARCH series manufactured by Cabot Corporation Boston Mass. such as e.g. REGAL 400R REGAL 330R and REGAL 660R and various black pigments manufactured by Evonik Degussa Corporation Parsippany N.J. such as e.g. Color Black FW1 Color Black FW2 Color Black FW2V Color Black FW18 Color Black FW200 Color Black S150 Color Black S160 Color Black S170 PRINTEX 35 PRINTEX U PRINTEX V PRINTEX 140U Special Black 5 Special Black 4A and Special Black 4 . An example of an organic black pigment includes aniline black such as C.I. Pigment Black 1.

Some examples of suitable yellow organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Yellow 1 C.I. Pigment Yellow 2 C.I. Pigment Yellow 3 C.I. Pigment Yellow 4 C.I. Pigment Yellow 5 C.I. Pigment Yellow 6 C.I. Pigment Yellow 7 C.I. Pigment Yellow 10 C.I. Pigment Yellow 11 C.I. Pigment Yellow 12 C.I. Pigment Yellow 13 C.I. Pigment Yellow 14 C.I. Pigment Yellow 16 C.I. Pigment Yellow 17 C.I. Pigment Yellow 24 C.I. Pigment Yellow 34 C.I. Pigment Yellow 35 C.I. Pigment Yellow 37 C.I. Pigment Yellow 53 C.I. Pigment Yellow 55 C.I. Pigment Yellow 65 C.I. Pigment Yellow 73 C.I. Pigment Yellow 74 C.I. Pigment Yellow 75 C.I. Pigment Yellow 81 C.I. Pigment Yellow 83 C.I. Pigment Yellow 93 C.I. Pigment Yellow 94 C.I. Pigment Yellow 95 C.I. Pigment Yellow 97 C.I. Pigment Yellow 98 C.I. Pigment Yellow 99 C.I. Pigment Yellow 108 C.I. Pigment Yellow 109 C.I. Pigment Yellow 110 C.I. Pigment Yellow 113 C.I. Pigment Yellow 114 C.I. Pigment Yellow 117 C.I. Pigment Yellow 120 C.I. Pigment Yellow 124 C.I. Pigment Yellow 128 C.I. Pigment Yellow 129 C.I. Pigment Yellow 133 C.I. Pigment Yellow 138 C.I. Pigment Yellow 139 C.I. Pigment Yellow 147 C.I. Pigment Yellow 151 C.I. Pigment Yellow 153 C.I. Pigment Yellow 154 C.I. Pigment Yellow 167 C.I. Pigment Yellow 172 C.I. Pigment Yellow 180 and C.I. Pigment Yellow 185.

Some examples of suitable magenta or red organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Red 1 C.I. Pigment Red 2 C.I. Pigment Red 3 C.I. Pigment Red 4 C.I. Pigment Red 5 C.I. Pigment Red 6 C.I. Pigment Red 7 C.I. Pigment Red 8 C.I. Pigment Red 9 C.I. Pigment Red 10 C.I. Pigment Red 11 C.I. Pigment Red 12 C.I. Pigment Red 14 C.I. Pigment Red 15 C.I. Pigment Red 16 C.I. Pigment Red 17 C.I. Pigment Red 18 C.I. Pigment Red 19 C.I. Pigment Red 21 C.I. Pigment Red 22 C.I. Pigment Red 23 C.I. Pigment Red 30 C.I. Pigment Red 31 C.I. Pigment Red 32 C.I. Pigment Red 37 C.I. Pigment Red 38 C.I. Pigment Red 40 C.I. Pigment Red 41 C.I. Pigment Red 42 C.I. Pigment Red 48 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 48 Mn C.I. Pigment Red 57 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 57 1 C.I. Pigment Red 88 C.I. Pigment Red 112 C.I. Pigment Red 114 C.I. Pigment Red 122 C.I. Pigment Red 123 C.I. Pigment Red 144 C.I. Pigment Red 146 C.I. Pigment Red 149 C.I. Pigment Red 150 C.I. Pigment Red 166 C.I. Pigment Red 168 C.I. Pigment Red 170 C.I. Pigment Red 171 C.I. Pigment Red 175 C.I. Pigment Red 176 C.I. Pigment Red 177 C.I. Pigment Red 178 C.I. Pigment Red 179 C.I. Pigment Red 184 C.I. Pigment Red 185 C.I. Pigment Red 187 C.I. Pigment Red 202 C.I. Pigment Red 209 C.I. Pigment Red 219 C.I. Pigment Red 224 C.I. Pigment Red 245 C.I. Pigment Violet 19 C.I. Pigment Violet 23 C.I. Pigment Violet 32 C.I. Pigment Violet 33 C.I. Pigment Violet 36 C.I. Pigment Violet 38 C.I. Pigment Violet 43 and C.I. Pigment Violet 50.

Examples of blue or cyan organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Blue 1 C.I. Pigment Blue 2 C.I. Pigment Blue 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 34 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 4 C.I. Pigment Blue 16 C.I. Pigment Blue 18 C.I. Pigment Blue 22 C.I. Pigment Blue 25 C.I. Pigment Blue 60 C.I. Pigment Blue 65 C.I. Pigment Blue 66 C.I. Vat Blue 4 and C.I. Vat Blue 60.

Some examples of green organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Green 1 C.I. Pigment Green 2 C.I. Pigment Green 4 C.I. Pigment Green 7 C.I. Pigment Green 8 C.I. Pigment Green 10 C.I. Pigment Green 36 and C.I. Pigment Green 45.

Examples of brown organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Brown 1 C.I. Pigment Brown 5 C.I. Pigment Brown 22 C.I. Pigment Brown 23 C.I. Pigment Brown 25 C.I. Pigment Brown 41 and C.I. Pigment Brown 42.

Some examples of orange organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Orange 1 C.I. Pigment Orange 2 C.I. Pigment Orange 5 C.I. Pigment Orange 7 C.I. Pigment Orange 13 C.I. Pigment Orange 15 C.I. Pigment Orange 16 C.I. Pigment Orange 17 C.I. Pigment Orange 19 C.I. Pigment Orange 24 C.I. Pigment Orange 34 C.I. Pigment Orange 36 C.I. Pigment Orange 38 C.I. Pigment Orange 40 C.I. Pigment Orange 43 and C.I. Pigment Orange 66.

In another example the pigment may be chosen from metallic pigments where the metallic pigments also have a particle size enabling the composition to be printed from a digital printer. In an example the particle size of the metallic pigment ranges from about 0.1 m to about 20 m. Some suitable metallic pigments include a metal chosen from gold silver platinum nickel chromium tin zinc indium titanium copper aluminum and alloys of any of these metals. These metals may be used alone or in combination with two or more metals or metal alloys. Some examples of metallic pigments include Standard RO100 Standard RO200 and DORADO gold bronze pigments available from Eckart Effect Pigments Wesel Germany .

In yet another example the pigment may be chosen from a pearlescent pigment also known as an opalescent pigment where the pearlescent pigments have a particle size that enables the composition to be printed from a digital printer. In an example the pearlescent particle size ranges from about 0.1 m to about 20 m. It is to be understood that suitable pearlescent pigments are those that tend to exhibit various colors depending on the angle of illumination and or of viewing. Some examples of pearlescent pigments include those of the PRESTIGE series and of the DORADO PX series both of which are available from Eckart Effect Pigments.

In an example the pigment may be chosen from polymer attached pigments or polymer coated pigments. In this example the polymer may be chosen in order to modify the surface of the pigment to be hydrophilic such as the modified pigments of the CAB O JET 400 series Cabot Corp. Boston Mass. or to be hydrophobic such as the modified pigments of the INDIGO series Hewlett Packard Co. Houston Tex. . Examples of polymers that may be used to modify the surface s of the pigments include copolymers of ethylene and methacrylic acid polyester polymethyl methacrylate PMMA polystyrene butadiene and or combinations thereof.

In some cases the pigment may be chosen from surfactant absorbed pigments e.g. self dispersible pigments. Some examples of surfactants that may be incorporated with the pigment for self dispersion include any of the anionic or cationic surfactants identified above. In some cases non ionic surfactants may be used an example of which includes TRITON X 100 commercially available from Dow Chemical Company Midland Mich. .

In yet another example as mentioned above the colorant may be chosen from a dye or a combination of dyes alone. In this example the printing composition includes the carrier and the dye without pigments and without dispersants. Suitable dyes include water soluble dyes pigment coated dyes or combinations thereof. Some examples of dyes that may be used as the colorant or one of many colorants include fluorescein rhodamine nigrosine and napthol green. Some examples of water soluble dyes include DUASYN Yellow 3GF SF DUASYN Red 3B SF DUASYNJET Cyan FRL SF DUASYNJET Black NB SF liq. VP 2495 DUASYN Acid Yellow XX SF DUASYN Brill. Red F3B SF DUASYN Acid Blue AE SF 30 and DUASYN Black HEF SF liq. VP 2895 CARTASOL Yellow 3GF liq. and DUASYN Red R F3B liq and DRIMARENE Magenta CR liq. all of which are manufactured by Clariant Switzerland . Another example of a water soluble dye is pigment red.

In an example the water based ink dispersion is a water based cyan ink a water based yellow ink a water based magenta ink or a water based black ink. It is to be understood however that the examples disclosed herein may be used to formulate inks having a color other than those identified above.

In another example the ink dispersion is a water based ink dispersion having a latex incorporated therein. In this example the water based ink dispersion is the same as described above but the dispersion further includes a latex incorporated therein. The latex may be chosen from latex nanoparticles some examples of which include acrylonitrile butadiene styrene acrylic polymers polyvinyl acetate polystyrene butadiene and or combinations thereof. In an example the latex based ink dispersion includes pigment particles present in an amount ranging from about 3 wt to about 8 wt of the dispersion surfactant s including the non ionic surfactants disclosed herein present in an amount ranging from about 2 wt to about 10 wt of the dispersion co solvents present in an amount ranging from about 2 wt to about 20 wt of the dispersion latex nanoparticles present in an amount ranging from about 2 wt to about 20 wt and a balance of water. The water based latex ink dispersion may also include one or more additives such as a biocide. In an example a biocide is present in an amount ranging from about 0.01 wt to about 2 wt of the ink dispersion. Some examples of the water based latex ink include HP 3M Specialty Latex Inks or HP 3M LX 600 Specialty Latex Ink.

It is to be understood that the ink dispersion may be a colorless ink such as a dispersion that does not include a colorant e.g. a fixer included in an ink set. In this case the deinking component s may be incorporated into the colorless ink rather than or in addition to the other inks in the ink set. The deinking component s present in the fixer which is printed under and or over an image formed from one or more of the other inks in the ink set interact with the colorant s of the other ink s to separate the colorant s during recycling of the waste paper.

Also disclosed herein is an ink system including a printing system configured to deposit the ink dispersion on a medium. An example of a printing system is semi schematically depicted in . The system includes an inkjet printing system or device such as e.g. a continuous device a drop on demand device a thermal inkjet TIJ device or a piezoelectric inkjet device having at least one inkjet fluid ejector . It is to be understood that although a single ejector is shown in there may be a plurality of ejectors . The fluid ejector is fluidically coupled to an ink chamber that contains an example of the ink dispersion identified by reference numeral . The fluid ejector is configured to eject the ink dispersion onto a medium where the ink dispersion is retrieved from the ink chamber during printing.

In an example of the printing device including additional fluid ejectors not shown in each additional fluid ejector is respectively fluidically coupled to at least one other ink chamber also not shown in . For example the inkjet printing system may include an ink set having two or more inks each of which is stored in a respective ink chamber. The ink chambers may be in fluid communication with a single fluid ejector or may be in fluid communication with their own respective fluid ejectors.

In an example during inkjet printing a portion of the ink may be retrieved from the ink chamber and then deposited onto the medium via the fluid ejector to form a printed medium. The medium may take the form of a media sheet or of a continuous web suitable for printing via the printing system depicted e.g. in . The medium may be a base paper manufactured from cellulose fibers. In an example the base paper may be produced from chemical pulp mechanical pulp thermal mechanical pulp and or combinations thereof. In some cases the base paper may also include additives such as internal sizing agents and fillers. The internal agents may be added to the pulp before the pulp is converted into a paper web or medium. The fillers may be any type of filler used in paper such as e.g. calcium carbonate talc clay kaolin titanium dioxide and combinations thereof. The base paper may also be uncoated raw paper or a pre coated paper. In an example the paper has a basis weight ranging from about 100 g mto about 250 g m.

Fibers of the medium upon which the ink was deposited to form the printed medium may be recycled using a conventional paper recycling process. For example the printed medium may be placed inside a recycling mill and then the colorant of the ink deposited on the printed medium may be detached from the fibers of the medium to form a deinked pulp. The detaching of the colorant from the medium may be referred to herein as a deinking process and an example of the deinking process is diagrammatically shown in . This deinking process includes introducing the printed medium into a pulper of the recycling mill and then chopping the printed medium up into smaller pieces. In some cases water and possibly certain pH adjusting chemicals bleaching chemicals or the like may be added inside the pulper while the medium is chopped thereby converting the printed medium into a slurry of pulp and ink as shown at reference numeral in .

Upon making the slurry examples of the method of the present disclosure include separating the ink from the slurry by interacting the deinking component of the ink with the colorant of the ink as shown at reference numeral which causes the colorant to separate from the fiber and or causes the colorant particles to aggregate into large groups.

In some instances the pulp slurry is screened to remove any materials that may be denser than the pulp such as contaminants or other foreign matter. In an example coarse and fine screening may be accomplished for example by passing the slurry over or through a screen with varying slot opening sizes to separate such materials from the slurry and these materials may be caught using another mesh screen.

The ink is removed from the slurry by introducing the slurry into a froth flotation cell and then introducing a collector e.g. a frother into the slurry. In an example air is also blown into the slurry. Since the frother has an affinity to the now detached colorant particles the colorant particles attach to the frother. The air bubbles lift the colorant particles to the surface of the flotation cell as a thick froth which may be removed from the cell.

To further illustrate the present disclosure examples are given herein. It is to be understood that these examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosed example s .

A series of deinking experiments were performed on several ink dispersions where each dispersion had a different non ionic surfactant incorporated therein. The ink dispersions were prepared by mixing about 3 wt to about 4 wt of a self dispersible pigment with about 5 wt of the non ionic surfactant indicated in Table 1 below. The self dispersible pigment for all of the inks set forth in Table 1 i.e. inks 1 through 7 was selected from a self dispersible cyan pigment. These ink dispersions are listed in Table 1 hereinbelow and were formulated as follows. The non ionic surfactant was introduced separately into each of the ink dispersions and each dispersion was jetted from a thermal printhead to create a test pattern on regular paper as shown in . The deinkability of the pigments from the paper was evaluated by pulping the paper sample in a pulper in the presence or absence of a regular deinking chemical set consisting of NaOH sodium silicate hydrogen peroxide and oleic acid. The pulping was accomplished for about 10 minutes to about 20 minutes followed by froth flotation for about 10 minutes to about 20 minutes in the presence of a frother. Handsheets and filter pads were made from the deinked and undeinked pulps to test for the various optical properties.

It was found that the non ionic surfactants listed above that have an HLB value falling within the range of 5 to 16 i.e. those that were incorporated into Inks 1 through 5 were effective as a displector in the presence of a frother such as sodium dodecyl sulfate. It was also found that a non ionic surfactant having an ink speck contamination of less than 2000 A A mm m where Arefers to ink specks with a diameter of less than about 20 microns while Arefers to ink specks with a diameter of less than about 250 microns when used in an ink dispersion renders the ink suitably deinkable according to examples herein. Further Inks 1 through 5 all exhibited a total score which was deduced by using the European Recycling Paper Council s deinking scorecard where an ink having a score of 70 and above is considered to have good deinkability that was at least 95 e.g. Ink 1 . This score is significantly higher than the minimum threshold score of 70 according to the European Recycling Paper Council s deinking score card as mentioned above. It was therefore determined that the non ionic surfactant incorporated into Inks 1 through 5 delivered good deinkability for their respective digital inks. This is in contrast to Inks 6 and 7 each of which included a non ionic surfactant that produced a total score of less than 70 which rendered the inks as non deinkable at least in part because the inks failed in at least one category.

Ink 3 shown in Table 1 above was jetted from a thermal inkjet printer at an ink drop jetting frequency ranging from about 1 kHz to about 24 kHz. The printing was accomplished without any significant issues pertaining to the nozzles of the printhead such as e.g. nozzle clogging or the like .

Test plots were printed on white paper and the plots were subjected to a deinking evaluation in the laboratory. One of these test plots is shown in printed with an example of the ink dispersion that includes MYRJ 45 as a deinking component . The test pattern shown in was prepared by creating separate ink dispersions of similar compositions with respective colored pigments. The test pattern has an ink coverage of about 30 for each plot. In this example about 200 g of the printed papers were pulped in the absence of deinking chemicals which would have normally been added during a typical paper recycling process. The pulp was then added to a flotation cell still in absence of deinking chemicals and then a frother. It was found that the pigments of the inked portion of the printed papers were effectively removed during the flotation and that the type of pigment did not significantly affect the outcome of the deinking. It was also found that ink particles and filler materials of the paper were the main components found in the reject reservoir of the flotation cell.

Handsheets made from both non deinked pulps and deinked pulps and filter pads were then made to evaluate the efficiency of the non ionic surfactants incorporated into the ink dispersion. A schematic representation of the handsheet made from non deinked pulps is shown in and a schematic representation of the handsheet made from deinked pulps according to the method described above is shown in . It was found that the ink speck counts on the handsheet shown in which was subjected to pulping and flotation were less than about 100 which was significantly less than the targeted level of 600 set by the European Recycling Paper Council s deinking score card. It was also found that the optical brightness of the handsheet shown in was close to about 100 which was better than the target level of 90. Further the ink elimination was greater than 95 which was better than the target level of 80 . Further the filtrate darkening which indicated discoloration of the deinking process water was 1 which is better than the target level of 5. The color shade was also within the target range of 2 to 1. Further the fiber yield was greater than about 80 which is comparable to or better than that of existing deinking chemistries.

It is to be understood that the ranges provided herein include the stated range and any value or sub range within the stated range. For example a range from about 0.1 wt to about 30 wt should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of about 0.1 wt to about 30 wt but also to include individual values such as 0.2 wt 5 wt 12 wt etc. and sub ranges such as from about 0.5 wt to about 10 wt from about 3 wt to about 20 wt etc. Furthermore when about is utilized to describe a value this is meant to encompass minor variations up to 10 from the stated value.

While several examples have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed examples may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered non limiting.

