---

title: Dense transducer array and method
abstract: A transducer array assembly includes a support structure having a plurality of predetermined openings therein for accommodating transducer components. Flexible circuits are embedded in the support structure. Each flexible circuit has first ends being positioned in the support structure predetermined openings. Terminal blocks are joined to the second ends. Transducer elements are positioned in the support structure predetermined openings and placed in electrical communication with the flexible circuit first ends. A polymer material is provided surrounding the transducer elements, said support structure, and said flexible circuit first ends. There is also provided a method for manufacturing the transducer array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229141&OS=08229141&RS=08229141
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08229141
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100727
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or there for.

The present invention relates to a dense transducer array that provides an acoustic transducer having relatively high operational bandwidth. More particularly the present invention includes a cable harness component that efficiently provides and organizes numerous conductors within piezocomposite substrates to form transducer arrays with minimum impact on electro acoustic performance.

Several underwater sonar applications exist for high frequency wideband transducer arrays having individual elements such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 255 761 761 and herein incorporated by reference. In order to form and steer acoustic beams with an array of individual elements the array elements must be spaced not more than one half the acoustic wavelength at the highest frequency of interest. This implies for square shaped elements at least that the elements lateral dimensions are inversely proportional to frequency. Therefore for fully populated radiating apertures the number of elements increases exponentially as the spacing decreases.

As piezocomposite arrays such as described in previously mentioned U.S. patent 761 move to higher operational bandwidths and frequencies the element center to center spacing decreases as the number of elements forming the array aperture increases. The result is a need for a component that organizes the numerous electrical wires found in piezocomposite arrays.

U.S. patent 761 teaches that piezoceramic transducer arrays can be formed from a block of piezoceramic material. A piezoceramic transducer preform can be created by machining away material between preform posts and leaving a base portion of the piezoceramic material on a bottom side of the block and preform posts on a top side of the block. A generalized top surface is defined by the tops of the preform posts opposite from the surface defined by the base. Conductors are inserted in the gaps between the preform posts with the ends of the conductors extending through apertures formed in the base and beyond the general top surface of the preform posts. The combined base preform post and conductor volume is filled with a liquid polymer which is allowed to harden. Any conductor or polymer extending above the general top surface is removed. The base and conductors extending beyond a selected transducer volume are removed leaving a bottom preform surface. Electrodes are provided on the top preform surface and the bottom preform surface. These electrodes can join with the conductor ends or can be connected to the conductor ends by known methods. This gives a flexible transducer array that can be used for a variety of applications.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a transducer array having densely packed transducer elements.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a transducer array that handles large numbers of conductors and distributes them in a two dimensional lattice efficiently in a space wise fashion.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a transducer array having mechanical isolation between array elements.

Furthermore it is an object of the present invention to provide a transducer array that supports transmit operation as well as receive operation while at the same time having cabling that is robust enough to handle high drive signals.

Yet another object is providing a transducer array having a plurality of closely spaced elements capable of transmitting and receiving acoustic signals at high frequencies.

Still another object is providing a method of making a transducer array having closely spaced transducer elements.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more obvious hereinafter with regard to the disclosure contained in the specification and drawings.

Accordingly there is provided a cable harness component that is particularly suited for transducer arrays. The cable harness component includes a support structure having a plurality of predetermined openings made from a viscoelastic material. A plurality of flexible circuits having conductors communicates between terminal blocks and electrical contacts within the support structure. Terminal blocks are positioned for outside electrical connection.

A cable harness component for a transducer array includes a support structure having a plurality of predetermined openings therein for accommodating transducer components. Flexible circuits are embedded in the support structure. Each flexible circuit has first ends being positioned in the support structure predetermined openings. Terminal blocks are joined to the second ends.

A transducer array assembly includes a support structure having a plurality of predetermined openings therein for accommodating transducer components. Flexible circuits are embedded in the support structure. Each flexible circuit has first ends being positioned in the support structure predetermined openings. Terminal blocks are joined to the second ends. Transducer elements are positioned in the support structure predetermined openings and placed in electrical communication with the flexible circuit first ends. A polymer material is provided surrounding the transducer elements said support structure and said flexible circuit first ends. There is also provided a method for manufacturing the transducer array.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown the cable harness component that includes a plurality of flexible circuits . Flexible circuits are embedded within a support structure and are terminated by conventional connector terminal blocks . The flexible circuits have a plurality of flex circuit ends that can connect the flexible circuits to electrical contacts on the transducer material that is to be further described hereinafter with reference to . In two specific flex circuit ends are identified as A and B. The support structure can be made of any material having the required vibration damping characteristics. Preferably it is made of a viscoelastic material known in the art. Support structure has a plurality of openings A that will be further described with reference to .

In general the cable harness component comprises the support structure having a plurality of predetermined openings A and comprised of a viscoelastic material. The plurality of flexible circuits each have first and second opposite ends with each end having connecting means. The plurality of flexible circuits are embedded in the support structure . The plurality of terminal blocks each have first and second connecting means. The plurality of flexible circuits and the plurality of terminal blocks are preferably of an equal number and with the connecting means of the first opposite ends of the flexible circuits being connected to corresponding first connecting means of the terminal blocks . The second connecting means of the terminal blocks are preferably made available for connecting to external equipment.

With reference to it is seen that the cable harness component has its support structure its plurality of flexible circuits and its terminal blocks arranged in an opened three face assembly with the terminal blocks and support structure being arranged parallel to and facing each other and are spaced apart by about the horizontal height of the flexible circuits .

The flexible circuits are selected so as to have three sides with the first side having a length to accommodate mating with the terminal blocks the second side of the flexible circuits has a length to accommodate mating with the support structure and the third side having a length so as to space apart the support structure and terminal block and corresponds to about the horizontal height of the flexible circuits .

With reference to it is seen that the cable harness component is particularly suited to be selected for mating with a transducer array. Transducer array can be formed from a preform of piezoceramic material. This is more fully described above and in the previously incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 6 255 761 761 . The preform comprises a plurality of posts A B . . . joined to a base . In this embodiment four typical posts A B C and D are positioned in a single support structure opening A to form an array element. Each of the posts A . . . represents an electromechanical unit. Openings A of the support structure correspond and accommodate the insertion of one or more of the posts. Different embodiments of the invention can incorporate different numbers of posts. The number and lateral spacing of posts can be chosen according to the desired application.

The cable harness component provides electrical connection for the posts as well as electromechanical isolation so that signals present in one portion of post or group of posts do not affect another portion of posts . The interconnection of the cable harness component to external equipment not shown may be accomplished via terminal blocks which in turn are connected to appropriate cabling related to associated external equipment. The interconnection between the cable harness component and the posts may be further described with reference to .

Ends of flexible circuit conductors identified for one set as connections A and B are dimensioned and formed so that connection A exits out from the associated flexible circuit upward and out of the associated chamber A while connection B exits out from the associated flexible circuit downward and out of the associated chamber A. The A connection located above the upper surface of the associated posts is available for positive electrical connection to an associated electrode element while the B connection located below the lower surface of the associated posts is available for negative electrical or ground connection to an associated electrode element.

Cable harness can be joined to a preform by the following method. Flexible circuits are positioned within support structure so that flexible circuit ends as typically shown at A are positioned to extend into an opening A. The other end of flexible circuit is joined to an electrical connector . A ceramic array component as detailed in U.S. patent 761 is available as a preform having posts joined to a base . Preform is positioned within support structure such that four posts extend into each opening A. Of course in other embodiments openings A can support different numbers of posts. Flexible circuit ends having a first electrical polarity A are positioned to extend out of each opening A and flexible circuit ends having a second electrical polarity B are positioned to extend proximate the base of the preform . In other embodiments base can have apertures formed therein for receiving flexible circuit ends B.

As shown in electrodes can be deposed on the top and bottom surfaces. Post tops and circuit end A are shown with hidden lines. Electrode electrically connects a selected number of post tops with circuit end A. In this embodiment four post tops are joined to a single circuit end A to form an array element. Electrodes can be formed by providing a conductive coating on top of circuit ends A and post surfaces by any number of methods known in the art. The conductive coating forms an electrode having a first polarity on post surfaces and an electrode having a second polarity on the bottom of the posts not shown . These electrodes can be formed in contact with flexible circuit end such that flexible circuit end having a first electrical polarity is in electrical communication with the electrode having a first polarity on the top of the preform. Likewise flexible circuit end having a second electrical polarity is in electrical communication with the electrode having a second polarity on the bottom of the post. As shown multiple posts can be electrically joined by a single electrode to a single flexible circuit end. This process allows thermoforming the ceramic preform substrate and organizes the numerous conductors making up the large number of array elements such as the four posts forming such an array element.

This can be performed by other methods such as by providing contacts on circuit sheets mounted to the top surface of array and to the bottom surface of array. A polymer coating can be provided outside the electrical components to shield them from the environment.

After the electrodes are formed the array can be curved forming a finished transducer array shown in . This array includes a plurality of transducer elements indicated by electrode embedded in a polymeric elastomer known in the art. Array can be prepared for use by covering it with an acoustically transparent coating and providing it on a resilient mounting. Flexible circuits would likely extend into an interior of a structure.

It should now be appreciated that the practice of the present invention provides a cable harness isolator that can be used to form an array of acoustic transducer elements by installing it over a piezoelectric preform that consists of individual ceramic posts backfilling the formed substrate of arrays with polymer and grinding the upper and lower surfaces of the substrate flat and parallel to each other.

It should be further appreciated that the practice of the present invention allows for handling a relatively large number of conductors entering the terminal blocks and leaving the flexible circuits so as to be in one embodiment distributed in a two dimensional lattice efficiently in a space wise fashion.

Further it should be appreciated that the practice of the present invention provides mechanical isolation between array elements deemed critical by those skilled in the art for wideband high frequency grating lobe free beam steering. The mechanical isolation is provided by the physical spacing between elements and also the support structure material.

Further still it should be appreciated that the mated assembly comprising the cable harness component and the PZT ceramic preform supports transmit operation as well as receive operation while at the same time those skilled in the art may provide cabling made robust enough to handle high drive signals.

Still further it should be appreciated that the practice of the present invention by those skilled in the art following the bending and curving principles of U.S. Pat. No. 6 255 761 and applying those principles to the embodiments described with reference to allows electrode substrate to be singly curved for conformal array fabrication.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the expressed in the appended claims.

