---

title: Fastener and fastening structure
abstract: To provide a fastener having a high anti-loosening effect. A fastener has a thread structure including an upper portion of the crest and a bottom portion at the groove. The upper portion has a load flank surface inclined from the standard load flank surface toward the fastener seat while the bottom has an undercut on at least one of the groove side lower than the extension of the corresponding flank surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09494182&OS=09494182&RS=09494182
owner: Art Screw Co., Ltd.
number: 09494182
owner_city: Nagoya-shi, Aichi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100212
---
The present invention relates to a fastening member having a thread structure and a fastening structure.

Fastening members having a thread structure such as bolts and nuts are widely used in the related art. In order to enable a bolt to be actually tightened into a nut it is necessary to provide a dimensional tolerance between the outside diameter and the effective diameter of the bolt and the inside diameter and the effective diameter of the nut. Meanwhile such a tolerance may loosen the bolt and the nut. Various contrivances have been made in the related art to prevent occurrence of such loosening.

Japanese Utility Model Application Publication No. JP U Sho 53 88664 and Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 8 177839 disclose a male thread structure partially including a screw thread provided with a pressure flank surface the flank angle of which is smaller than the flank angle of a basic profile and a clearance flank surface the flank angle of which is larger than the flank angle of the basic profile.

Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 11 51033 discloses a fastening member including a slit formed in the crest of a screw thread and extending in a direction that is perpendicular to the axis of the thread and a widely formed root.

A method of preventing loosening by forming a resin coating layer on part of a screw thread is also proposed.

Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A 2006 57801 discloses a firmly tightening screw as a related art of the present invention.

When the fastening member according to Japanese Utility Model Application Publication No. JP U Sho 53 88664 is engaged with a female thread the pressure flank surface of the male thread positively presses the flank surface of the female thread. Because no configuration is provided that promotes elastic deformation of the screw thread of the male thread however no large friction force is obtained between the screw thread of the male thread and the screw thread of the female thread which yields no significant loosening prevention effect.

In the configuration according to Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 8 177839 the angle of the screw thread of the male thread is set to 50 for example to provide a gap between the flank surface of the male thread and the flank surface of the female thread which permits elastic deformation. However such a gap does not allow sufficient elastic deformation which leaves room for improvement.

In the configuration according to Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 11 51033 the flanks are elastically deformed to be sprung back in the thread crest provided with the slit when fastened. Because the flanks are sprung back only for the size depth of the slit however no large friction force is obtained which demonstrates no sufficient loosening prevention effect.

In the method of preventing loosening by forming a resin coating layer on part of a screw thread it is necessary to repeatedly form a resin coating layer each time the screw is reused which is troublesome. In a method of preventing loosening through a friction force generated by contacting a male thread and a female thread a friction torque prevailing torque is generated which complicates torque management. In addition this requires tightening with a considerable force which results in poor workability.

In a configuration according to the related art a minute slide so called initial loosening occurs due to wear or deformation of a seat surface. If such initial loosening is left unaddressed an object to be fastened may slide which may cause excessive stress concentration on a bolt and hence a breakage of the bolt. The initial loosening is difficult to prevent from occurring and the only way to address the initial loosening is additional tightening.

In the case where a male thread and a female thread are to be hot dip galvanized it is necessary to cut a larger portion of the female thread than normally that is overtap the female thread in order to prevent the male thread and the female thread from becoming unable to fit each other due to the thickness of the plating.

Normally an overtap of about 0.40 mm to about 0.80 mm is provided for an M10 thread. When such overtap is applied to the male thread structures according to Japanese Utility Model Application Publication No. JP U Sho 53 88664 and Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 8 177839 the gap between the flank surface of the male thread and the flank surface of the female thread is increased as a result of which the friction force between the flank surface of the male thread and the flank surface of the female thread may be significantly reduced or may not be obtained at all. Therefore it is very difficult to apply thick plating such as hot dip galvanizing to the male thread structures according to Japanese Utility Model Application Publication No. JP U Sho 53 88664 and Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A Hei 8 177839 while maintaining the loosening prevention effect.

The present invention has been made to solve the foregoing problems and therefore has at least one of the following objects.

 1 To provide a fastening member or a fastening structure that yields a significant loosening prevention effect.

 2 To provide a fastening member or a fastening structure that can be tightened in the same way as a normal bolt to facilitate torque management and that can be reused easily.

 3 To provide a fastening member or a fastening structure with improved fatigue strength achieved by equalizing the load imposed on all screw threads of the fastening member to prevent stress concentration.

 4 To provide a fastening member or a fastening structure that prevents occurrence of initial loosening.

 5 To provide a fastening member or a fastening structure to which thick plating can be applied while maintaining the loosening prevention effect.

In order to achieve at least one of the above objects the present invention provides a fastening member as follows.

That is the present invention provides a fastening member having a thread structure including an upper portion provided on a side of a thread crest and a lower portion provided on a side of a thread root in which a pressure flank surface formed in the upper portion is provided on a side of a seat surface with respect to a pressure flank surface of a basic profile and at least one side surface of the lower portion is provided inwardly of an extension line of a corresponding flank surface.

In the fastening member according to the present invention the pressure flank surface formed in the upper portion provided on the side of the thread crest is provided on the side of the seat surface with respect to the pressure flank surface of the basic profile. Therefore when the fastening member is fastened to a mating fastening member the pressure flank surface is pressed by the mating fastening member.

A side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread of the fastening member is located inwardly of the corresponding flank surface and shaped to be dented inward. Thus the lower portion of the screw thread is elastically deformed by the above pressing which generates a reaction force spring back against the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member in the entire screw thread.

Accordingly the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member is increased which demonstrates a significant loosening prevention effect.

The pressure flank surface of the fastening member is pressed by the mating fastening member which elastically deforms the lower portion of the screw thread. Therefore the entire screw thread rises up along the mating fastening member.

Accordingly the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member necessarily contact each other even if overtap is provided. Therefore a reaction force spring back against the mating fastening member is generated in the screw thread irrespective of the size of the gap between the fastening member and the mating fastening member which demonstrates a loosening prevention effect.

Thus the loosening prevention effect is not reduced even if overtap is provided in the mating fastening member for the fastening member according to the present invention and therefore thick plating can be performed on the fastening member according to the present invention while maintaining the loosening prevention effect.

Further in the fastening member according to the present invention the friction force on the seat surface of the fastening member is also increased by the reaction force spring back of the screw thread.

This prevents initial loosening due to wear or deformation of the seat surface and in turn prevents a breakage of the fastening member due to the initial loosening which improves the reliability. The absence of initial loosening eliminates the need for additional tightening which improves the workability.

When the fastening member according to the present invention is brought back from the fastened state to the unfastened state the entire screw thread is brought back to the state before fastening a state in which the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the seat surface with respect to the pressure flank surface of the basic profile .

This allows repeated use of the fastening member according to the present invention without the need for a special treatment.

When the fastening member according to the present invention is fastened the lower portion of the screw thread is elastically deformed. Therefore the mating fastening member is unlikely to be damaged and the loosening prevention effect is not reduced even after repeated use.

A fastening member according to a first aspect has a thread structure and includes an upper portion provided on a side of a thread crest and a lower portion provided on a side of a thread root.

The term thread structure as used herein refers to a structure in which a screw thread and a thread root are formed spirally on a side surface of a cylindrical main body toward the distal end of the main body.

The term upper portion refers to a portion on the side of the thread crest with respect to an imaginary cylinder defining the effective diameter of a basic profile. The term lower portion refers to a portion on the side of the thread root with respect to the imaginary cylinder. The term effective diameter refers to the diameter of an imaginary cylinder on which the respective widths of the thread groove and the screw thread of the basic profile as measured in the axial direction are equal to each other. The term imaginary cylinder defining the effective diameter refers to the imaginary cylinder described above.

The upper portion of the screw thread is provided on the side of the thread crest with respect to the imaginary cylinder defining the effective diameter of the basic profile and therefore the pressure flank surface is secured sufficiently.

Accordingly the contact area between the pressure flank surface formed in the upper portion and the mating fastening member can be secured.

In a sixth aspect an angle of a screw thread of the upper portion is generally the same as an angle of a screw thread of the basic profile. According to the sixth aspect the clearance flank surface does not contact the flank surface of the mating fastening member even if the screw thread is elastically deformed in the fastened state. Thus a significant loosening prevention effect is demonstrated without requiring a force that is more than necessary when tightening.

The term basic profile as used herein refers to a theoretical screw thread shape defined by the JIS standards for example and refers to a screw thread shape in which the angle of a screw thread is 60 and both flank angles are 30 with flank surfaces provided symmetrically with respect to a line that is perpendicular to the axis or a screw thread shape complying with the screw thread shape of the Whitworth screw thread in which the angle of a screw thread is 55 and both flank angles are 27.5 with flank surfaces provided symmetrically with respect to a line that is perpendicular to the axis. Thus the angle of a screw thread of a male thread is about 60 or about 55 for example.

In the first aspect a pressure flank surface is provided on a side of a seat surface with respect to a pressure flank surface of a basic profile.

The shape of the pressure flank surface is normally a flat surface shape but is not limited thereto and may be the shape of a round surface that is curved toward the seat surface.

The flank angle of the pressure flank surface is preferably smaller than the flank angle of the basic profile.

Accordingly when fastening the fastening member can be screwed easily before the mating fastening member reaches the seat surface of the fastening member and when tightening starts the screw thread is gradually elastically deformed to demonstrate a loosening prevention effect due to a spring back effect.

As the fastening member is further tightened the contact area between the pressure flank surface and the flank surface of the mating fastening member gradually increases. Therefore the screw thread is easily elastically deformed which ensures a spring back effect and thus makes the fastening member unlikely to be loosened.

The term flank angle refers to the angle formed between a line that is perpendicular to the axis and a flank surface.

In the seventh aspect the angle of the screw thread of the upper portion is 60 and a flank angle of the pressure flank surface is larger than 0 and smaller than 30 .

According to the seventh aspect the spring back effect is easily obtained which further enhances the loosening prevention effect.

The flank angle of the clearance flank surface may be determined in consideration of the flank angle of the pressure flank surface. For example the flank angle of the clearance flank surface may be made larger than the flank angle of the basic profile and may be determined to be an angle obtained by subtracting from the angle of the screw thread of the basic profile the flank angle on the side of the seat surface. The flank angle of the clearance flank surface may be larger than 30 and smaller than 60 preferably about 34 to about 42 .

In the first aspect at least one side surface of the lower portion is positioned inwardly of an extension line of a corresponding flank surface.

Therefore the lower portion is formed to be thin compared to a case where the side surface of the lower portion is provided along the extension line of the flank surface. This permits elastic deformation of the lower portion and allows the entire screw thread to be warped.

In the second aspect in addition to the configuration of the first aspect when viewed in cross section including an axis of the fastening member the at least one side surface of the lower portion has a shape of a curved surface that is curved inward from the extension line of the corresponding flank surface or a shape in which a flat surface that is disposed inwardly of the extension line of the corresponding flank surface and a curved surface that is curved inward from the extension line are combined.

In the case where the side surface of the lower portion has the shape of a curved surface that is curved inward from the extension line of the corresponding flank surface the curved surface may have the shape of a round surface having a constant radius of curvature or the shape of a complex round surface in which a plurality of curved surfaces having different radii of curvature are combined.

In the case where the side surface of the lower portion has a shape in which a flat surface that is disposed inwardly of the extension line of the corresponding flank surface and a curved surface that is curved inward from the extension line are combined the flat surface may be a surface that is perpendicular to the axial direction of the fastening member and the curved surface may be the round surface or the complex round surface described above.

Preferably the lower edge of the side surface of the lower portion having a curved surface shape and the root which couples side surfaces of adjacent screw threads are smoothly continuous with each other so that the entire root takes a curved surface shape.

According to the second aspect the lower portion is sufficiently thin which allows the lower portion to be elastically deformed and the entire screw thread to be warped in the fastened state. Therefore a reaction force spring back against the mating fastening member fastened to the fastening member is increased which increases the friction force to yield a significant loosening prevention effect.

Since the lower portion of the screw thread has a curved surface shape the lower portion of the screw thread is not easily plastically deformed or cracked . In general when a strong fastening force is applied to the fastening member stresses tend to concentrate on the root of the fastening member or in the vicinity of the root at which plastic deformation or a crack tends to occur.

By providing a curved surface shape in the lower portion of the screw thread as in the second aspect stresses are dispersed which makes the screw thread to be elastically deformable to a greater degree while avoiding a yield of the lower portion. As a result a reaction force spring back of the screw thread also becomes larger. In other words the lower portion is not easily plastically deformed which more reliably makes the screw thread elastically deformable.

In the third aspect in addition to the configuration of the first or second aspect a lower end of a clearance flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread crest with respect to an imaginary cylinder indicating an effective diameter of the basic profile and a clearance side surface of the lower portion is provided inwardly of an extension line of the clearance flank surface and formed to be continuous from the lower end of the clearance flank surface.

The phrase formed to be continuous from the lower end of the clearance flank surface means that the clearance side surface of the lower portion is formed directly from the distal end of the upper portion of the screw thread on the clearance side that is the lower end of the clearance flank surface and means that the clearance flank surface and the clearance side surface are formed to contact each other at the lower end of the clearance flank surface.

According to the third aspect the clearance side surface of the lower portion is dented over a wide range to make the lower portion further thinner which makes it easy for the screw thread to be elastically deformed to the clearance side. Therefore the screw thread is warped to the clearance side to further increase the reaction force spring back which yields a significant loosening prevention effect.

In the fourth aspect in addition to the configuration of the first or second aspect a lower end of the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread crest with respect to a lower end of a clearance flank surface a pressure side surface is provided inwardly of an extension line of the pressure flank surface and formed to be continuous from the lower end of the pressure flank surface and a clearance side surface of the lower portion is provided inwardly of an extension line of the clearance flank surface and formed to be continuous from the lower end of the clearance flank surface.

According to the fourth aspect the pressure side surface of the lower portion is dented over a wide range compared to the clearance side surface which makes the pressure side surface of the lower portion further thinner and the clearance side surface of the lower portion thicker than the pressure side.

With such a shape while the screw thread receives a pressure from the side of the seat surface in the fastened state the screw thread is warped to a reduced degree. As a result stresses concentrate on the pressure flank surface of the screw thread to cause the material forming the pressure flank surface to be elastically deformed along the pressure flank surface. Thus a high friction force is generated in the pressure flank surface to yield a significant loosening prevention effect.

In the fifth aspect in addition to the configuration of the fourth aspect the lower end of the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread crest with respect to an imaginary cylinder indicating an effective diameter of the basic profile and the lower end of the clearance flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread root with respect to the imaginary cylinder.

According to the fifth aspect the functions and effects of the fourth aspect are obtained more reliably.

In the eighth aspect in addition to the configuration of the first or second aspect an angle of a screw thread of the upper portion is larger than an angle of a screw thread of the basic profile and a flank angle of the pressure flank surface is generally the same as a flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread of the basic profile.

In the eighth aspect when the fastening member is tightened into the mating fastening member a pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member presses the pressure flank surface of the fastening member. Since the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the fastening member is generally the same as the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread of the basic profile the pressure flank surface of the fastening member is parallel to the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member.

Therefore according to the eighth aspect generally the entirety of the pressure flank surface of the fastening member is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member to generate a stable strong pressing force which results in a strong friction force between both the pressure flank surfaces to yield a significant loosening prevention effect.

A fastening structure according to the ninth aspect includes a fastening member according to any one of the first to eighth aspects and a mating fastening member to be fastened to the fastening member and when the fastening member is fastened to the mating fastening member a pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member presses the pressure flank surface of the fastening member to elastically deform the lower portion of the fastening member in order to increase a friction force between the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member.

According to the ninth aspect the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member is increased which yields a significant loosening prevention effect.

The type of the mating fastening member is not specifically limited and any type having a thread structure complying with known standards such as a unified screw thread and a Whitworth screw thread for example may be employed.

In the tenth aspect in addition to the configuration of the ninth aspect when the fastening member is fastened to the mating fastening member the thread crest of the fastening member contacts a thread root of the mating fastening member.

According to the tenth aspect the fastening member can be tightened into the mating fastening member with little resistance before a force is applied to the seat surface of the fastening member. As the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque however the pressure flank surface of the fastening member is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member to cause the screw thread of the fastening member to rise up to the clearance side. Accordingly the screw thread of the fastening member is sprung back to the pressure side which increases the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member.

Further according to the tenth aspect with the screw thread of the fastening member rising up to the clearance side the outside diameter of the thread is increased which causes the thread crest of the fastening member to contact the thread root of the mating fastening member to be restrained by the thread root. Such a restraining force is added to the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the fastening member and the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member to prevent radial loosening of the fastening member which yields a further significant loosening prevention effect as a whole.

In the tenth aspect in the case where a mating fastening member complying with the JIS standards or the ISO standards is used the outside diameter of the screw thread of the fastening member is larger than the outside diameter according to the JIS standards or the ISO standards that is the outside diameter of the screw thread of the basic profile . Thus the thread crest of the fastening member is higher than the thread crest of the screw thread of the basic profile. Also because the pitch of the screw thread of the fastening member is the same as the pitch of the thread root the angle of the screw thread of the fastening member is smaller than the angle of the screw thread of the basic profile.

The root diameter of the thread root of the mating fastening member may be reduced so that the thread crest of the fastening member contacts the thread root of the mating fastening member when fastened.

In the eleventh aspect in addition to the configuration of the ninth aspect when the fastening member is fastened to the mating fastening member the clearance flank surface of the fastening member contacts a clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member.

According to the eleventh aspect the fastening member can be tightened into the mating fastening member with little resistance before a force is applied to the seat surface of the fastening member. As the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque however the screw thread rises up to cause the clearance flank surface of the fastening member to contact and be pressed against the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member which generates a strong friction force. Such a friction force is added to the friction force between the pressure flank surfaces which yields a further significant loosening prevention effect as a whole.

The eleventh aspect can be implemented by providing a swelling portion on the clearance flank surface of the fastening member. Providing a swelling portion can further increase the friction force between the clearance flank surface of the fastening member and the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member in the fastened state.

The swelling portion is shaped to be parallel to the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member. Accordingly interference between the swelling portion and the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member is avoided and a strong friction force is obtained with the swelling portion pressed against the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member.

The swelling portion is formed to swell to a gradually increasing degree from the lower end of the clearance flank surface toward the thread crest. Accordingly since the seat surface is tightened to cause the screw thread to rise up such that the thread crest side of the clearance flank surface of the screw thread moves toward the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member the swelling portion can be further strongly pressed against the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member.

In the twelfth aspect in addition to the configuration of the eleventh aspect a cut surface is formed by cutting away a portion of the fastening member in the vicinity of the thread crest along a line extending obliquely downward toward the pressure flank surface.

According to the twelfth aspect when the fastening member is tightened into the mating fastening member the pressure flank surface of the fastening member is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member as the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque.

In this event the pressure flank surface of the fastening member first contacts the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member not at a portion that is in the vicinity of the upper end of the cut surface serving as the thread crest but at the upper end of the pressure flank surface.

Accordingly as the fastening member is tightened into the mating fastening member the pressure flank surface of the fastening member contacts and is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the mating fastening member gradually from the upper end side to the lower end side which causes the screw thread of the fastening member to rise up to the clearance side. Thus the thread crest of the fastening member moves toward the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member so that the clearance flank surface of the fastening member contacts the clearance flank surface of the mating fastening member.

As a result the screw thread of the fastening member obtains a friction force from both the pressure flank surface and the clearance flank surface which yields a further loosening prevention effect.

The method of manufacturing the fastening member according to the present invention is not specifically limited and any known method such as flat die round die planetary die and rotary die rolling cutting casting forging and injection molding may be employed.

Various examples of the present invention will be described in detail below with reference to the drawings. In the description of the various examples the same constituent components and elements are denoted by the same reference numerals to avoid repeating the same description.

The various examples may be appropriately combined for implementation in which case the respective functions and effects of the combined examples or a synergistic effect may be obtained.

The bolt serving as a fastening member has a male thread structure and includes a head portion a cylindrical portion and a thread portion . A seat surface is formed on the back surface of the head portion . The screw thread is formed on the thread portion .

The broken line indicated by reference numeral denotes an imaginary cylinder defining the effective diameter of a basic profile and the broken line indicated by reference numeral denotes the basic profile. The basic profile has a shape complying with the JIS standards with the angle of the screw thread being 60 and both the flank angle of a pressure flank surface and the flank angle of a clearance flank surface being 30 . The broken lines indicated by reference numerals and denote imaginary lines that are perpendicular to the axial direction of the thread.

The screw thread has an upper portion provided on the side of a thread crest with respect to the imaginary cylinder and a lower portion provided on the side of roots and with respect to the imaginary cylinder .

The pressure flank surface is formed along an imaginary line passing through a root of the basic profile with the angle formed between the imaginary line and the imaginary line being about 22 .

The clearance flank surface is formed along an imaginary line passing through a root of the basic profile with the angle formed between the imaginary line and the imaginary line being about 38 .

In the screw thread the angle is equivalent to the angle of the screw thread of the upper portion the angle is equivalent to the flank angle of the pressure flank surface and the angle is equivalent to the flank angle of the clearance flank surface .

The screw thread according to Example 1 has a shape obtained by inclining the basic profile to the side of the seat surface pressure side using the roots and of the basic profile as base points while maintaining the angle of the screw thread of the basic profile .

When viewed differently while the crest of the basic profile is positioned radially outwardly of the middle between the roots and the crest of the screw thread according to Example 1 is shifted toward the root which is closer to the seat surface using the roots and of the basic profile as base points.

The lower portion includes a side surface on the side of the seat surface pressure side and a side surface on the side of the screw distal end clearance side .

The side surface is formed to be curved inward from the imaginary line which is equivalent to the extension line of the pressure flank surface . The side surface has the shape of a round surface that is continuous with the clearance side surface of an adjacent screw thread not shown . The bottom of the side surface is defined as the root

The side surface is formed to be curved inward from the imaginary line which is equivalent to the extension line of the clearance flank surface . The side surface has the shape of a round surface that is continuous with the side surface on the side of the screw distal end of an adjacent screw thread not shown . The bottom of the side surface is defined as the root

The nut is a mating fastening member having a female thread structure complying with the JIS standards with the angle of a root of the nut being 60 .

When the bolt is tightened into the nut a pressure flank surface of the nut presses the pressure flank surface of the screw thread .

Both the side surfaces and of the lower portion have the shape of a round surface recessed inward and thus the lower portion is dented inward to be thinner than the basic profile .

This allows the entire screw thread to be elastically deformed in response to the pressing by the pressure flank surface of the nut .

As a result as shown in the screw thread is deformed from an unfastened state indicated by the broken line to a fastened state indicated by the solid line in which the entire screw thread has risen up along the pressure flank surface of the nut .

Accordingly a reaction force spring back against the pressure flank surface of the nut is generated in the screw thread to increase the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut which yields a significant loosening prevention effect.

The pressure flank surface of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut necessarily contact each other even if overtap is provided. Therefore a reaction force spring back against the pressure flank surface of the nut is generated in the screw thread irrespective of the size of the gap between the pressure flank surfaces and which demonstrates a loosening prevention effect.

Thus the loosening prevention effect is not reduced even if overtap is provided in the nut and therefore hot dip galvanizing can be effectively performed on the bolt and the nut .

The upper portion of the screw thread is provided on the side of the thread crest with respect to the imaginary cylinder defining the effective diameter of the basic profile and therefore the pressure flank surface is secured sufficiently.

Accordingly as shown in the contact area between the pressure flank surface of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut is secured in the fastened state which results in a high friction force.

Further the angle of the screw thread is 60 which is generally the same as the angle of the root of the nut and therefore a space allowing elastic deformation of the entire screw thread is secured in the thread root of the nut . In addition generally the entirety of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread contacts the pressure flank surface of the nut in the fastened state which results in a further higher friction force to yield a significant loosening prevention effect.

As shown in in the unfastened state the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread is about 22 and the flank angle of the clearance flank surface of the screw thread is about 38 .

These flank angles are different from the references according to the JIS standards but fall within the gap between the bolt and the nut . Therefore the friction torque between the bolt and the nut is small to allow stress free screwing before a seat surface tightening force is generated.

After further screwing a seat surface tightening force is generated to yield a significant loosening prevention effect due to elastic deformation of the screw thread as described above.

Consequently the bolt including the screw thread according to Example 1 yields two contradictory functions and effects that is being easily screwed into the nut and loosening prevention.

Since the screw thread itself is elastically deformed the load imposed on the screw thread of the bolt is dispersed to other screw threads contacting the side surfaces of a plurality of thread roots of the nut . Accordingly concentration of the load on the screw thread first screw thread positioned closest to the seat surface of the screw threads of the bolt contacting the nut is relaxed which improves the fatigue strength of the bolt .

Further the friction force on the seat surface see is also increased by the reaction force spring back of the screw thread . This prevents initial loosening due to wear or deformation of the seat surface and in turn prevents a breakage of the bolt due to the initial loosening which improves the reliability. The absence of initial loosening eliminates the need for additional tightening which improves the workability.

In the fastened state shown in the material forming the screw thread of the bolt is elastically deformed. When brought back to the unfastened state shown in however the original state that is a state in which the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the seat surface with respect to the pressure flank surface of the basic profile is restored by the elastic force of the lower portion of the screw thread .

This allows repeated use without the need to perform a special treatment on the screw thread . In the fastened state the lower portion of the screw thread is elastically deformed. Therefore the pressure flank surface of the nut is unlikely to be damaged and the loosening prevention effect is not reduced even after repeated use.

While the present invention is applied to a right hand thread bolt in Example 1 the present invention may also be applied to a left hand thread bolt in which case the same functions and effects as those for a right hand thread bolt are obtained.

A lower end of a pressure flank surface of the screw thread is positioned below on the side of the axis with respect to the imaginary cylinder . That is the pressure flank surface is formed from the upper portion to the lower portion .

A side surface is formed on the pressure side of the lower portion of the screw thread . The side surface has the shape of a round surface that is continuous from the lower end of the pressure flank surface to the root and that is curved inwardly of the imaginary line

A lower end of a clearance flank surface of the screw thread is positioned above on the side of the thread crest with respect to the imaginary cylinder . That is the clearance flank surface is formed only in the upper portion .

A side surface is formed on the clearance side of the screw thread from the upper portion to the lower portion . The side surface has the shape of a round surface that is continuous from the lower end of the clearance flank surface to the root and that is curved inwardly of the imaginary line

Consequently the root between adjacent screw threads is positioned on the side of the seat surface in the screw thread according to Example 2 compared to the screw thread according to Example 1 see .

According to the screw thread of Example 2 the same functions and effects as those of the screw thread according to Example 1 are obtained.

In the screw thread according to Example 2 the pressure side surface of the lower portion is dented to a small degree compared to the side surface of the screw thread according to Example 1.

Accordingly the pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 2 is formed to be wider than the pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 1.

As a result with a bolt including the screw thread according to Example 2 fastened to a nut the contact area with the flank surface of the nut is increased to further increase the friction force which further improves the loosening prevention effect.

In the screw thread according to Example 2 the clearance side surface of the lower portion is dented to a great degree compared to the side surface of the screw thread according to Example 1. This permits the screw thread to be elastically deformed to the clearance side in the lower portion .

This allows the screw thread according to Example 2 to be warped to the clearance side to further increase the reaction force spring back which further improves the loosening prevention effect.

As with the side surfaces and according to Example 1 the shape of the side surfaces and according to Example 2 is not limited to a round surface shape and may be a complex round surface shape or a shape in which a round surface and a flat surface are combined.

A lower end of the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread crest with respect to the imaginary cylinder .

A pressure side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread is shaped to be curved inwardly of the imaginary line from the lower end of the pressure flank surface to the root and has a shape in which a round surface and a flat surface are combined.

The flat surface is a surface that is parallel to the imaginary line which is perpendicular to the axial direction of the thread and formed to extend from the lower end toward the root to a position reference numeral at two thirds the height of the lower portion .

The round surface is a circumferential surface with a radius of curvature of 0.4 mm and formed from the position indicated by reference numeral to the root so as to be continuous with the flat surface

In the screw thread according to Example 3 a clearance flank surface is formed along the imaginary line

A lower end of the clearance flank surface is positioned on the side of the axis with respect to the imaginary cylinder . As with the pressure side surface a clearance side surface of the lower portion is shaped to be curved inwardly of the imaginary line from the lower end of the clearance flank surface to the root and has a shape in which a round surface and a flat surface are combined.

In the screw thread according to Example 3 the lower end of the pressure flank surface is positioned on the side of the thread crest with respect to the lower end of the clearance flank surface

According to the bolt including the screw thread of Example 3 the pressure side surface of the lower portion is dented over a wide range compared to the clearance side surface of the lower portion which makes the pressure side surface of the lower portion further thinner and the clearance side surface thicker than the pressure side.

This allows the entire screw thread to be warped to the clearance side in the fastened state and more strongly sprung back to the pressure side which yields a further significant loosening prevention effect.

The screw thread according to Example 4 is different from the screw thread see according to Example 3 in that the lower portion of the screw thread is not curved inward or dented on the clearance side so that a clearance flank surface is extended to form a clearance side surface of the lower portion with the clearance flank surface and the clearance side surface flush with each other.

Other features of the screw thread according to Example 4 are the same as those of the screw thread according to Example 3.

According to the screw thread of Example 4 when the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque in the fastened state the pressure flank surface is pressed against the pressure flank surface of a nut to generate a force for warping the screw thread to the clearance side. Since the clearance side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread is not curved inward or dented but has a flat surface shape however the screw thread is warped to the clearance side to a reduced degree.

This prevents a reduction in amount of elastic deformation of the screw thread due to secular changes which makes it possible to keep a reaction force spring back against the pressure flank surface of the nut.

The side surface is formed on the pressure side of the screw thread according to Example 4 from the upper portion to the lower portion . The side surface has the shape of a round surface that is continuous with the lower end of the pressure flank surface and the root and that is curved inwardly of the imaginary line

With the pressure side surface of the screw thread curved inward or dented when the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque the screw thread is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the nut to elastically deform the pressure side of the upper portion of the screw thread so as to extend along the pressure flank surface of the nut which generates a high friction force.

That is a portion of the pressure side surface which is curved inward or dented permits elastic deformation of the pressure side of the upper portion of the screw thread . Such elastic deformation occurs sequentially in the order of a first screw thread a second screw thread a third screw thread and so forth. As a result a significant loosening prevention effect is obtained for the entire engagement portion between the bolt and the nut and stresses do not concentrate on the first screw thread but are dispersed which improves the fatigue strength.

The lower end of the pressure flank surface the upper end of the clearance side surface is preferably positioned on the pressure flank surface of the nut in the fastened state.

This is because such positioning secures the contact area between the pressure flank surface of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut in the fastened state to result in a sufficient friction force and permits sufficient elastic deformation of the pressure side surface of the lower portion .

Elastic deformation of the upper portion of the screw thread is facilitated by increasing the radius of curvature of the round surface shape of the pressure side surface so that the pressure side surface is curved or dented to a greater degree. This makes it possible to enhance the friction force generated between the pressure flank surface of the upper portion of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut which enhances the above effect.

The angle acute over of the screw thread according to Example 5 is about 58 which is slightly smaller than the angle acute over 60 of the screw thread see according to Example 1 indicated by the broken line. The pitch of the screw thread complies with the JIS standards.

Therefore the thread crest of the screw thread according to Example 5 is higher than the thread crest of the screw thread according to Example 1 and the outside diameter of the bolt according to Example 5 is larger than the JIS standards.

Other features of the screw thread according to Example 5 are the same as the screw thread according to Example 1. A pressure side surface and a clearance side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread are formed to be curved inward from an imaginary line that is equivalent to the extension line of the corresponding flank surface.

The nut is a nut complying with the JIS standards or the ISO standards. The bolt can be tightened into the nut with little resistance before a force is applied to the seat surface of the bolt . As the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque however a pressure flank surface is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the nut to cause the screw thread to rise up to the clearance side.

Accordingly the screw thread is sprung back to the pressure side which increases the friction force between the pressure flank surface of the bolt and the pressure flank surface of the nut .

With the screw thread further rising up to the clearance side the outside diameter of the thread is increased which causes the thread crest of the bolt to contact a root of the nut to be restrained by the root . Such a restraining force is added to the friction force between the pressure flank surface and the pressure flank surface to prevent radial loosening of the bolt which yields a further significant loosening prevention effect as a whole.

In the case where the torque for tightening the seat surface is low or the bolt is made of a material that is not easily elastically deformed the screw thread may rise up to a smaller degree and the friction force between the pressure flank surface and the pressure flank surface of the nut may become smaller.

According to the bolt of Example 5 however radial loosening of the bolt is prevented with the thread crest of the bolt restrained by the root in addition to the friction force between the pressure flank surface and the pressure flank surface of the nut which results in a sufficient loosening prevention effect.

The screw thread according to Example 6 is obtained by providing a swelling portion on the clearance flank surface see of the screw thread according to Example 1.

The angle formed between an imaginary line that is perpendicular to the axial direction of the thread and the imaginary line is about 30 and the angle formed between the extension line of a pressure flank surface and the imaginary line is 54 .

A thread crest of the screw thread according to Example 6 is formed to have the same height as the thread crest see of the screw thread according to Example 1.

The swelling portion is formed to swell to a gradually increasing degree from a lower end of the clearance flank surface toward the thread crest so that the thread crest and the surface of the swelling portion are smoothly continuous with each other.

Other features of the screw thread according to Example 6 are the same as the screw thread according to Example 1. A pressure side surface and a clearance side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread are formed to be curved inward from an imaginary line that is equivalent to the extension line of the corresponding flank surface.

When the bolt is tightened into the nut the screw thread rises up to the clearance side to be sprung back to the pressure side as the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque which increases the friction force between the pressure flank surface and the pressure flank surface of the nut .

With the screw thread further rising up to the clearance side the swelling portion which is provided on the clearance side of the screw thread moves closer to a clearance flank surface of the nut so that the surface of the swelling portion is pressed against the clearance flank surface of the nut .

As a result the screw thread obtains a friction force from both the pressure flank surface and the surface of the swelling portion which yields a further loosening prevention effect.

The angle formed by the surface of the swelling portion is about 30 . Therefore the surface of the swelling portion is parallel to the clearance flank surface of the nut before a force is applied to the seat surface of the bolt to tighten the seat surface which causes the screw thread to rise up.

This prevents interference between the surface of the swelling portion and the clearance flank surface of the nut before the seat surface is tightened which facilitates tightening.

The swelling portion is formed to swell to a gradually increasing degree from the lower end of the clearance flank surface toward the thread crest . Therefore the swelling portion is further strongly pressed against the clearance flank surface of the nut when the seat surface is tightened to cause the screw thread to rise up which generates a high friction force to yield a further loosening prevention effect compared to a case where the swelling portion is formed to swell to a gradually increasing degree from the thread crest toward the lower end of the clearance flank surface.

The screw thread according to Example 7 has a shape obtained by providing a swelling portion on the clearance flank surface see of the screw thread according to Example 1 as with the swelling portion see of the screw thread according to Example 6.

However the screw thread according to Example 7 has a shape obtained by cutting away a portion of the screw thread according to Example 6 in the vicinity of the thread crest along an imaginary line extending obliquely downward toward a pressure flank surface .

The imaginary line passes through the vicinity of the middle portion of the pressure flank surface see of the screw thread according to Example 1 indicated by the broken line. The angle formed between an imaginary line that is parallel to the imaginary cylinder and the imaginary line is 45 .

A cut surface formed along the imaginary line is a flat surface facing the pressure side on the side of the seat surface of the bolt with an upper end of the cut surface serving as the thread crest of the screw thread .

A lower end of the cut surface is positioned in the vicinity of the middle portion of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 1 indicated by the broken line.

The swelling portion is formed to swell to a gradually increasing degree from a lower end of the clearance flank surface toward the upper end of the cut surface so that the upper end of the cut surface and a surface of the swelling portion are smoothly continuous with each other.

A pressure side surface and a clearance side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread are formed to be curved inward from an imaginary line that is equivalent to the extension line of the corresponding flank surface.

When the bolt is tightened into the nut the pressure flank surface is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the nut as the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque.

In this event the pressure flank surface first contacts the pressure flank surface of the nut not at a portion that is in the vicinity of the thread crest the upper end of the cut surface of the screw thread but at the upper end of the pressure flank surface .

Accordingly as the bolt is tightened into the nut the pressure flank surface contacts and is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the nut gradually from the upper end side to the lower end side which causes the screw thread to rise up to the clearance side. Thus the thread crest of the screw thread moves toward the clearance flank surface of the nut so that the surface of the swelling portion contacts the clearance flank surface of the nut .

As a result the screw thread obtains a friction force from both the pressure flank surface and the surface of the swelling portion which yields a further loosening prevention effect.

The screw thread according to Example 8 is the same as the screw thread see according to Example 4 in that the lower portion of the screw thread is not curved inward or dented on the clearance side so that the clearance flank surface is extended to form the clearance side surface of the lower portion with the clearance flank surface and the clearance side surface flush with each other.

The screw thread according to Example 8 has a shape obtained by increasing the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 4.

As shown in the pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 4 is formed along the imaginary line and the flank angle of the pressure flank surface is about 22 which is the same as in the screw thread see according to Example 1.

The clearance flank surface of the screw thread is formed along the imaginary line and the flank angle of the clearance flank surface is about 38 which is the same as in the screw thread .

The angle of the screw thread of the upper portion of the screw thread is about 60 which is the same as in the screw thread .

In contrast a pressure flank surface of the screw thread according to Example 8 is formed along an imaginary line formed by adding the angle about 8 to the angle of the imaginary line and the flank angle of the pressure flank surface is about 30 .

The clearance flank surface of the screw thread is formed along the imaginary line and the flank angle of the clearance flank surface is about 38 which is the same as in the screw threads and .

Consequently the angle about 68 of the screw thread of the upper portion of the screw thread according to Example 8 is larger than the angle 60 of the screw thread of the upper portion of the basic profile see by the angle about 8 .

The flank angle 30 of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread is half the angle 60 of the screw thread see of the basic profile which is the same as the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread of the basic profile .

The angles and may be set to respective optimum values calculated experimentally. The flank angle may be set to be generally the same as the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread of the basic profile .

As with the pressure side surface see of the lower portion of the screw thread according to Example 3 a pressure side surface of the lower portion of the screw thread according to Example N is shaped to be curved inwardly of the imaginary line from a lower end of the pressure flank surface to the root and has a shape in which a round surface and a flat surface are combined.

When the bolt is tightened into the nut the pressure flank surface of the nut presses the pressure flank surface of the screw thread .

The flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread is generally the same as the flank angle of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread of the basic profile and thus the pressure flank surface is parallel to the pressure flank surface of the nut .

Therefore generally the entirety of the pressure flank surface of the screw thread is pressed against the pressure flank surface of the nut to generate a stable strong pressing force which results in a strong friction force between both the pressure flank surfaces and .

With the pressure side surface of the screw thread curved inward or dented in Example 8 as in Example 4 when the seat surface is tightened to increase a torque and the pressing force between the pressure flank surface of the screw thread and the pressure flank surface of the nut is increased the pressure side of the upper portion of the screw thread is elastically deformed to result in a strong friction force between both the pressure flank surfaces and which generates a large reaction force spring back to yield a further loosening prevention effect.

The screw thread according to Example 9 is different from the screw thread see according to Example 8 only in that a clearance side surface of the lower portion is formed to be curved inward from the imaginary line that is equivalent to the extension line of the clearance flank surface .

Therefore according to Example 9 the same functions and effects as those of the side surface in other examples in which the clearance side surface of the lower portion is formed to be curved inward from the imaginary line the side surface see according to Example 1 the side surface see according to Example 2 the side surface see according to Example 3 the side surface see according to Example 5 the side surface see according to Example 6 and the side surface see according to Example 7 are obtained.

The vibration test was conducted in Kansai Testing Center of Japan Quality Assurance Organization on Jan. 27 2010.

The items to be tested were M12 60 hexagonal bolts and hexagonal nuts made of carbon steel in strength grades 4.8T and 8.8T and trivalent chromate plated.

For normal use bolts made of carbon steel z 4.8T are tightened with a tightening torque of about 40 to 50 N m and bolts made of carbon steel in strength grade 8.8T are tightened with a tightening torque of about 70 to 80 N m.

The test was conducted as follows. An item to be tested test specimens was mounted to a high speed screw loosening test machine and tested under predetermined vibration conditions vibration frequency 1780 rpm vibration table stroke 11 mm impact stroke 19 mm and vibration direction orthogonal to the bolt axis . When no loosening occurred in ten minutes a loosening torque was measured.

A vibration barrel and a washer were interposed between the bolt and the nut when mounting the item to be tested to the high speed screw loosening test machine in order to vibrate the vibration barrel through the vibration table.

Loosening was determined when alignment marks on the bolt the nut as the items to be tested and the washer were misaligned and it became possible to manually rotate the washer.

As shown in the related art item according to the JIS standards was loosened in as short as 25 seconds for strength grade 8.8T although it took longer before loosening as the strength grade was higher.

In contrast the bolt according to Example 4 see was not loosened for 2 minutes and 9 seconds for strength grade 4.8T and not loosened for 9 minutes and 58 seconds for strength grade 8.8T. Thus it was found that the bolt according to Example 4 yielded a further significant loosening prevention effect compared to the item according to the JIS standards.

The bolt according to Example 8 see was not loosened for 4 minutes and 4 seconds for strength grade 4.8T and not loosened for 10 minutes for strength grade 8.8T. Thus it was found that the bolt according to Example 8 provided better results than the bolt according to Example 4.

The present invention is not limited in any way by the embodiments aspects and the examples described above. Various modifications that may be easily made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the claims fall within the scope of the present invention. The contents of all the papers patent application publications and patent publications specified herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

While the present invention is applied to a fastening member having a male thread structure in the above examples the present invention may also be applied to a fastening member having a female thread structure in which case the same functions and effects as those in the case of application to a fastening member having a male thread structure are obtained.

The fastening member and the fastening structure according to the present invention can be widely utilized as a fastening member and a fastening structure in vehicles various devices buildings and so forth.

