---

title: Dynamically controlled server rack illumination system
abstract: Described is a technology by which a server in a server rack is illuminated to indicate its state with respect to an operating mode (e.g., a power mode, an environmental mode, or a performance mode). Data is collected for a server via sensors, power meters and/or the server. Depending on a user-selected operating mode, the server is illuminated at its physical location to indicate its data state based upon the data collected. The mode and collected data result in an illumination of the physical server location that varies by color, intensity and/or flash pattern to indicate the current (or a prior historical) state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298581&OS=09298581&RS=09298581
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09298581
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100326
---
Information technology IT administrators are responsible for the deployment and maintenance of rack mounted computer equipment. To determine the operational status performance and health of such systems administrators remotely poll system information to obtain data which is then viewed in some format on computer monitor displays used to generate reports and or used to provide alerts e.g. send a page or an email message . Although these are valuable techniques the data is innately abstracted from the systems being monitored. As a result the data for a given machine needs to be somehow correlated back to that physical machine so as to give spatial relevancy to the data. This needs to be done using another medium such as a representative drawing a predetermined nomenclature and so forth. It is often confusing and time consuming to determine which data identified machine is which physical machine among many racks of servers.

Some servers have device integrated alert mechanisms available such as a dim blinking red light or a small e.g. one line LCD screen. However these provide little value to administrators as they are difficult to see. Moreover such mechanisms are not consistently implemented by various vendors for example among different vendors different colors text and or flash patterns mean different things. As a result even when present such small inconsistent lights screens are mostly unnoticed and or ignored.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of representative concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in any way that would limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Briefly various aspects of the subject matter described herein are directed towards a technology by which a server in a server rack may be illuminated to indicate its state with respect to an operating mode. Data is collected with respect to a server such as provided by sensors power meters and the server hardware itself e.g. including performance data. Depending on a current operating mode e.g. determined by user selection the server is illuminated at its physical location to indicate its state based upon the data collected.

The operating mode may be a power mode a temperature mode or a performance mode as well as other modes. The data may include power related data sensor provided data and or performance data as well as static data queried from the server. The illumination outputs may be different colors intensities and or flash patterns to indicate the data state according to the currently selected mode.

In one implementation the technology comprises a display mechanism that illuminates servers of a rack of servers. The display mechanism is comprised of independent displays e.g. LEDs that are separately controllable to illuminate a subset of the servers e.g. a front face of a single server . A controller controls the independent displays to illuminate the selected subset of the servers according to the operating mode and data corresponding to the selected subset of the servers.

In one aspect the data is maintained in a data store and includes current data such that the state of the server may be dynamically illuminated based upon its current data. Historical data may also be maintained to facilitate playback.

Other advantages may become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of the technology described herein are generally directed towards a dynamically controlled rack illumination system that includes a display mechanism for illuminating a server or group of servers to convey information to a viewer such as an administrator or customer end user. Note that while the technology is targeted towards IT administrators to an extent it also may be leveraged by other end users tour groups customers managers and so forth to showcase desired information. Further note that different privileges may be given to different types of end users e.g. tour groups may be allowed to perform certain operations that allow them to observe certain sets of servers showcasing different sets of data.

In one aspect the end user selects a display mode which then illuminates the servers according to their current state data with respect to that selected mode. The technology conveys rapid at a glance information and also complements remote system monitoring by providing local IT staff and personnel with real time readily visible system status information. As will be understood this lowers costs and streamlines operations by allowing administrators to efficiently locate report and respond to regularly changing server and datacenter conditions.

In one implementation LEDs are controlled by an end user to illuminate the front face of a server or group of servers such that the illumination e.g. color flash pattern intensity and or the like of each physical server machine or machine grouping is readily visible at the physical location. Various operating modes for real time display are described including environmental modes temperature humidity airflow and so forth power related modes performance related modes and aggregated modes e.g. performance per watt . Also described is a playback display operation in which an end user can replay the past states of a server or group of servers based on historical information with respect to a mode or modes. The playback display may be time compressed e.g. replay the past week s power consumption data in five minutes or time dilated e.g. replay the last ten second s CPU utilization over a minute such as to observe transient data spikes.

While various components are described that implement one example system it should be understood that any of the examples described herein are non limiting examples. Indeed while LEDs are used as examples of display mechanisms herein any display technology that is able to readily convey visible information that directly identifies a physical location and some characteristic information about that physical location are equivalent alternatives e.g. LCD DLP plasma OLED CRT and so forth including technologies not yet implemented . As such the present invention is not limited to any particular embodiments aspects concepts structures functionalities or examples described herein. Rather any of the embodiments aspects concepts structures functionalities or examples described herein are non limiting and the present invention may be used in various ways that provide benefits and advantages in computing and providing visible information in general.

Note that while show left and right LEDs it is understood that such an arrangement may be only for the purpose of providing a desired brightness level. A rack s server faces may be illuminated by only LEDs on the left of the faces for example or only LEDs to the right of the faces. However left and right LEDs may be illuminated separately for a single server or server group whereby for example additional information may be conveyed e.g. red left red right LEDs may convey different information from red left yellow right LEDs and so on.

Moreover LEDs are only one of the many possible display technologies that may be used to convey visible information directly via the physical server location to an administrator or other viewer e.g. customer service personnel . shows an example in which a light ring which may be an LED or other display technology surrounds the server face . The ring may be built into the server face or mounted to it at some time later. shows an example implementation in which a display panel is integrated into or attached to a server face . Note that this is different from a one line text LCD display because its conveyed information is readily visible from a distance and generally conveys non textual information such as via differing colors flash patterns and or intensity although such a screen may also be used to display text at desired times . Note that the set of such light rings or panels taken together e.g. those in the same rack may be considered a display mechanism having separately controllable displays that each illuminate some subset of the servers.

Note that the server in is shown in a vertical orientation to exemplify this possibility. However it is understood that this is only an example and that the technology described herein is independent of server orientation. Indeed the examples and other illumination technologies apply to horizontal and or vertical server orientations or any other angle for example.

Returning to each server and or server rack is associated with various real time data as detected by sensors typically both internal and external to the servers power meters voltage current power factor and individual performance data e.g. CPU load memory utilization hard disk data such as throughput and so forth . Other data may also be obtained from each server its hardware including relatively static data such as server manufacturer BIOS information amount of memory hard disk space CPU data such as type number of cores server age and so forth.

The data available from the various sources are collected by a data collector . The data may be pulled as desired or pushed from the sources depending on each particular source s capabilities. The data may be collected on demand such as when needed and or regularly collected and stored e.g. every few seconds . Storing historical data with time stamps allows for a playback operation as described below. Note that commercially available software e.g. OSIsoft LLC s PI System Software already collects such data such as for conventional remote access as set forth above.

Various sensors may include temperature humidity and airflow sensors. For example servers contain internal sensors that can detect the temperature of the air coming into a server. Rack mounted sensors can detect the temperature of the air coming out of a server e.g. at least within a certain area such as via four temperature sensors per rack. Both types of sensors may be employed to provide data.

As described herein based upon the data collected by the data collector and maintained in some suitable data store DS a lighting controller e.g. comprising software controls the illumination of the servers via drivers . In one example implementation the lighting controller implements an Art Net communication protocol maintained by Artistic License Ltd. transmitting instructions in conforming UDP packets. The drivers may comprise an Art Net to DMX hardware converter manufactured by ENTTEC Pty. Ltd. then translates the Art Net UDP packet instructions to DMX512 a communication protocol native to the lighting units commonly used to control theatrical lighting . The current standard DMX512 A is maintained by the Entertainment Services and Technology Association ESTA .

In general the lighting controller queries the data collector e.g. the data store coupled thereto for current server related data such as operational values. The lighting controller correlates those values with a vertical and or horizontal position in a specific rack and adjusts the illumination output color flash pattern and or intensity to that location based on a currently selected display mode. Note that colors gradients intensities and flash patterns may be provided by default and may be user configurable for customized illumination.

In general the lighting controller software is executed on a device with a user interface that is positioned or portable so as to view the server racks or some subset thereof while the lighting controller is operated. For example the lighting controller may have a user interface in the form of a touch screen panel mounted per rack or group of racks regardless of where the actual software executes whereby operations are controlled with human touch and or gesture including for example a touch interface capable of tracking multiple touch points and gestures for use in controlling the operations. The lighting controller may be implanted in a hand held device Smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer and so forth.

Various operating modes may be provided including a power mode a temperature mode a CPU utilization mode and a network utilization mode. The end user selects which mode is operational at any given time to view the actual server s current state. For example in the power mode the lights illuminate the individual server fronts in varying shades and or intensities such as from green low power to red high power . If the servers in the top of the rack are pulling large amounts of power and the rest are not the top of the rack thus glows red while everything else remains green identifying at a glance an otherwise obscured but likely important operational variable.

In the temperature mode servers in zones with high temperature readings may be illuminated to glow red while lower temperature servers glow blue. In the CPU utilization mode servers in zones with high CPU utilization may glow flash orange while others may glow shades of yellow and green depending on their current workload. In the network utilization mode servers in zones with high network utilization may glow flash white while others stay dark. As can be readily appreciated the illumination output in the form of colors gradients patterns and intensities are customizable as are the thresholds that change those illumination outputs.

Many other operating modes including customizable modes are feasible. One type of mode is an aggregation mode in which two or more types of data are mathematically combined in some way and correlated to an illumination output that is mapped to a server or server group. By way of example CPU utilization may be aggregated with power data such as by a mode that shows performance per watt. This may be useful for example in differentiating servers that are working hard and thus justifiably consuming power from one that is doing little work yet consuming more power than is typical for its workload indicating a potential problem.

Virtually any data that may be queried may correspond to a mode that results in illuminated output information. For example an end user may query for and receive a response so as to illuminate only those servers that are three years or older as part of a replacement program. An end user may illuminate those servers that have capacity for more memory so that memory may be added those that need software maintenance those manufactured by a certain vendor those associated with an outstanding service ticket and so on.

Such a query may be more complex than a single filtering query. For example an end user may input several criteria and have the servers that meet most or all of the criteria glow one way those that meet some amount glow another and those that meet little or none glow another.

A mode of operation for problem notification may be provided to allow checking for problems via a quick glance. For example an end user may set various thresholds in such a mode such as related to temperatures power consumption workload related thresholds and so forth. If a server exceeds any threshold that server is illuminated to differentiate it in some way such as flashing red although the type of problem may be color coded as well e.g. flash red for temperature flash blue for high power consumption and so on . If the server approaches the threshold a dimmer and or steady non flashing or slow flashing illumination may be used as a less urgent warning.

Turning to another aspect any operating mode may be played back in time to illuminate the servers based upon historical data rather than current data. More particularly if historical data is maintained with a timestamp or in another time retrievable manner the lighting controller can query for the data at a previous time rather than the current time. Thus for example if there was a problem overnight the end user can replay the data with respect to one or more modes to see which server had the problem and when. Note that playback may be simulated on a computer screen rather than by actual illumination however illumination of the physical machine may provide additional value. The playback may be time compressed all of last week shown in five minutes or the end user may fast forward rewind and so forth to hone in on a problem for example. The playback may be in slow motion time dilation as described above.

The lighting controller selects a rack and or server at step . For example the lighting controller may start with rack server and serially advance through the servers of each rack to illuminate each as appropriate. Other selection scenarios are possible e.g. first illuminate those with outstanding events and then poll for other data.

Another option is to perform some or all of the process in parallel. For example the controller may spawn threads responsible for each rack or some other logical sub section e.g. within a rack or multiple racks such that the call to illuminate the racks is asynchronous parallel rather than synchronous serial by the lighting controller. Thus the steps of refer to server s and or rack s to indicate the possibility of asynchronous parallel operations.

As represented by step based on the operating mode and selected server the lighting controller queries the data collector data store containing the current or if desired historical data relevant to that mode and server as described above. The lighting controller also determines the corresponding rack and vertical and or horizontal position within the rack as represented by step for illumination.

When the data is received step the lighting controller determines the output illumination comprising a specific color mix flash pattern and or intensity for that location. Note that this output illumination may be the same for both left and right LEDs for example or may be different. In the examples of more than one color also may be output at the same time including many colors such as a gradient that changes color from one point on the independent display to another.

As represented by step the lighting controller sends out a signal so as to instruct drive the LEDs or display corresponding to the given vertical horizontal position to illuminate that position as specified at step . Note that this may be per server such as in but may also be for some subset of the LEDs close to the vertical position as in . Further note that this signal is only output if some illumination is appropriate e.g. the data and mode may correspond to leaving the server as is including a non illuminated state.

Step represents ordinarily repeating the process for the next server and so on including servers in different racks as appropriate. Again note that some or all of the operations may be performed asynchronously in parallel on multiple servers and or racks at the same time. Note that the end user can limit the illumination to a specific subset of servers subset of racks and so on whereby step selects accordingly .

The process thus continues by returning to step until some user interface initiated input is received as also represented by step note that as described above an automated process may likewise initiate such input . One such input corresponds to a mode change whereby step returns to step . Other such input is handled as appropriate as generally represented by step such as to shut down the illumination e.g. to save power until an administrator returns in the morning.

As can be seen there is provided dynamically controlled direct illumination of servers based on real time or historical server conditions without the need for indirect data visualization abstraction. The technology thus facilitates more effective management control utilization and identifying of server hardware by IT administrators and personnel as well as facilitates the education of other end users who may select an illumination mode according to appropriate privileges granted to them.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices tablet devices touch devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so forth which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing various aspects of the invention may include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of the computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media described above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers herein to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a tablet or electronic digitizer a touch sensitive mechanism a microphone a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown in may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . The monitor may also be integrated with a touch screen panel or the like. Note that the monitor and or touch screen panel can be physically coupled to a housing in which the computing device is incorporated such as in a tablet type personal computer. In addition computers such as the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface or the like.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include one or more local area networks LAN and one or more wide area networks WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. A wireless networking component such as comprising an interface and antenna may be coupled through a suitable device such as an access point or peer computer to a WAN or LAN. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It may be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An auxiliary subsystem e.g. for auxiliary display of content may be connected via the user interface to allow data such as program content system status and event notifications to be provided to the user even if the main portions of the computer system are in a low power state. The auxiliary subsystem may be connected to the modem and or network interface to allow communication between these systems while the main processing unit is in a low power state.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

