---

title: Compliance protocol and architecture
abstract: Asynchronous refers to the ability for processing instructions and responses to be transferred by a variety of methods but not solely dependent on direct communications, such as via a store-and-forward mechanism, and can also include server-side push directly to the endpoint and client-side pull from a predetermined rendezvous point. The processing instructions can include system settings checks, asset enumeration, messaging/user notification, security assessment, configuration changes, software installation/removal, or any combination, to include actions such as patch download and installation based on the results of a security assessment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874685&OS=08874685&RS=08874685
owner: ThreatGuard, Inc.
number: 08874685
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100922
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 244 645 filed Sep. 22 2009 entitled AGGREGATING STANDARDIZED ASSESSMENT DATA and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 245 970 filed Sep. 25 2009 and entitled ASYNCHRONOUS COMMUNICATIONS. These applications are incorporated by reference.

Security remains a constant and problematic concern for administrators. The risk to vulnerable systems from threats residing for example on the Internet can place valuable assets at risk jeopardize mission readiness and causes other concerns. Administrators can spend countless hours and commit limited resources in attempting to address these threats.

In one sense the industry of standardized assessments for computer security vulnerabilities compliance inventory and other computing system weaknesses introduces extended implied requirements in the process of global aggregation. Global aggregation refers to representing the assessment scores and results of all endpoints of all locations of an organization where an organization can be an office campus company or a community or related sub organizations. Electronic communication lines that interconnect the organization may be of low quality to non existent making it difficult or impossible to perform global aggregation via traditional means. Global aggregation actions should also support the correlation of standards based references with the assumption that an aggregation point has no prior exposure to those references.

Data related to a compliance survey may be stored in a results file. The results file may include aggregated scores and results across various categories of interest. The results file also may include a description of the calculations used to produce scores and also counts for each category as aggregated from different assessed endpoints within that category broken down by each standards based reference. Thus an administrator may manipulate data in the results file to receive detailed analytics related to a particular condition type of devices location organization and or concern.

A system administering a compliance survey and generating the results file may track and distribute the results file in a distributed manner. For example higher lever analytics may be stored on a management console or server . The management console may include a results file that includes a higher level description of the organizational hierarchy. This process aggregates computer security configuration and vulnerability situational awareness data that enables a system administrator to perceive higher level data without requiring the management console to store the entire database. The results file may include metadata that enables the management console to retrieve more detailed information as required. For example the results file may include an XML file eXtensible Markup Language that indicates that the detailed information for client devices residing in a first office are located on a first server and that detailed information for client devices residing in a second office are located on a second server. Detailed information for network devices may be stored on a third server for example configured to also administer an Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP monitoring system. A SNMP server may be configured to review its SNMP logs to develop a compliance profile. The management console may reference metadata in the results file in order to derive higher level analytics and retrieve additional information from the SNMP server in order to perform more detailed drill down analytics.

Multiple layers of systems may be used in a reporting hierarchy. For example a first management console may use a results file to administer a helpdesk and logistics system while a second management console may use a results file to administer a security and intrusion detection system. Multiple layers of intermediate systems may be used to aggregate results. The results file may include metadata that identifies the immediately adjacent reporting systems and or also identifies a more complete map of the reporting system with multiple upstream reporting systems.

Each of the reporting systems may use a focused algorithm to generate a descriptive data set designed to be forwarded to higher level systems. The descriptive data set may be designed to be small and or translated to a generic format in order to enable assimilation of results from disparate systems.

The use of the focused algorithm and or small results files may be dynamically reconfigured to supports massively scalable and hierarchical presentation of data. For example a management console may instruct constituent devices that a simplified data set should be used when one million devices are being surveyed across a multiple level aggregation hierarchy. Thus each of the survey engines and or nodes in the aggregation hierarchy may be configured to tailor the results file so as to not exceed a certain size. Alternatively or in addition the survey engine may simultaneously generate a metadata description that indicates the particular convention that was used to aggregate the data and also reveals the location where the source data has been stored if more detailed information is required during a drill down operation.

The accompanying metadata thereby provides a reach back path to the originating details. The scope of the operation may be used to indicate the degree to which the data set should be simplified. For example a management console may request information that is only associated with a small aspect of a compliance survey. As the management console transmits the request to intermediate systems the request may include that the returned results file should only address the requested information. As a result the intermediate systems may run a less computationally intense survey and return a small results file. The less computationally survey may include an XML tag that indicates the location of the larger data sets.

To ensure the references are correlated properly at the aggregation point a set of metadata for each reference is included in the results file. The results file also provides cross references to associate scores and results with their driving policies and control documents. This process enables the dynamic reconstruction of high level assessment data at any aggregation point. Thus a management console working with a SCAP server may analyze the XML tags to ensure that the higher data being assimilated is valid so that the integrated data in fact reflects the underlying commonalities.

The aggregation system e.g. a SCAP server or management console also may take into account an organization s dynamic hierarchy. For example if intermediary nodes of the hierarchical reporting structure are disabled or removed subordinate nodes may still be configured to report by simply choosing a different parent in the hierarchy. The reporting path may be changed dynamically or on a periodic basis without altering the logical organizational structure of the aggregated data.

In another sense network administrators for an organization often struggle with performing configuration management. For example a network administrator in the federal government may be charged with managing several thousand devices. A network administrator may be charged with protecting devices from malicious Internet threats. In addition the network administrator also may be charged that computing devices for an organization are only used for their intended purpose.

One of the key challenges facing the network administrator is understanding the status of organizational resources e.g. client devices servers firewalls relative to authorized and or desired configurations. For example the National Institute of Standards and Technology maintains the Security Content Automation Protocol SCAP . SCAP is a compliance protocol that combines a number of standards that are used to enumerate software flaws and configuration issues related to security. SCAP measures systems to find deviations from a desired state and generates a score for a compliance profile that reflects an evaluation of the possible impact. With its categorization of vulnerabilities SCAP may be used to automate vulnerability management measurement device and software enumeration and policy compliance evaluation. Specifically SCAP may be used to define how the constituent components may be combined. For example SCAP may be used to incorporate standards that include Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures CVE Common Configuration Enumeration CCE Common Platform Enumeration CPE Common Vulnerability Scoring System CVSS Extensible Configuration Checklist Description Format XCCDF and Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language OVAL .

Thus a network administrator may manage security in an automated manner using SCAP. A description of a SCAP configuration is received from a configuration server and using the Secure Content Automation Protocol SCAP . For example a network administrator may instruct a server to launch a survey on client devices that includes the most current instantiation of SCAP. The description of the SCAP configuration is loaded to a compliance engine on a first client. Using the compliance engine a SCAP survey is executed using the SCAP configuration. Specifically a client device may determine whether the indicated vulnerabilities and issues exist. Based on executing the compliance engine a first SCAP compliance profile is developed. The client device may develop a description of which vulnerabilities and problematic conditions exist and which ones have been addressed. The first SCAP compliance profile is provided to a reporting system. In one configuration a client server application on the client device transmits the SCAP compliance profile to a server that is tracking organizational SCAP compliance.

In illustrating how a network administrator may administer a SCAP regime illustrate various user interfaces that a network administrator may use to distribute an SCAP configuration and track SCAP profiles resulting from executing a SCAP survey on various devices. For instance is a user interface that illustrates how results from a compliance profile may be displayed. Specifically user interface includes a list of devices that indicates the status of the device the IP address of the device and the identifier for the device. Each device is also associated with a score that indicates the degree of compliance a patch score and the degree to which vulnerabilities exist. Finally each device also includes an indication of when the last assessment was performed. The compliance score indicates the extent to which a particular system complies with a configuration. For example some organizations may include a policy that certain services not be used or that certain services only be used in certain configurations. The patch score indicates the extent to which patches have been administered. The patches may be scored to reflect the significance of the patch and may reflect whether a patch is required for performance reliability and or security. The vulnerability score indicates an extent to which a system is at risk for malicious and or undesirable activity.

User interface includes a display for a selected target. The selected target includes a description of an underlying system. A user may select the details tab to display additional information related to one or more constituent components in the score. In one configuration the sources with a larger impact on score are identified.

User interface includes different filters that enable a network administrator to assess different portions of the organization. The filter in user interface may be modified so that particular systems topologies locations and or configurations. The network administrator may pull up a report that displays the SCAP profile for laptops used by a company s sales force. The network administrator then may investigate the source for any discrepancies and schedule remedial action in response.

User interface includes a score breakdown according to guidance for the different benchmarks. The host statistics are then analyze the percentage of systems that are within a specified tolerance level warning level failing level or whether the system was not assessed. The worst offenders are then identified. User interface also indicates that certain deviations from policy are being used. Specifically there are 11 172 authorized exceptions. Alternative scores that reflect the selective incorporation of deviations is shown. The ability of a network administrator to authorize deviations may become important particularly when a particular score is required in order to maintain authorization to operate. A network administrator then may maintain a deviation because of operational requirements or gradually remove the authorized exceptions as the problematic system is remedied.

A graph showing trends over time is then shown. For example the graph may show the scores over times the score for certain systems or classes of systems over time the score relative to a required threshold over time or the score relative to specified configuration over time.

The user may select an object or structure appearing in the user interface and select from one or more options associated with each object. As shown the user has selected all systems and indicated that SCAP reports that display a compliance summary and compliance details. The user may select a more detailed class of systems and launch SCAP actions related to the more detailed class.

Alternatively the user may select a benchmark within SCAP and run a SCAP survey using the constituent benchmark. The results may reflect the configuration of a survey as only being executed against a narrower class of systems. For example the SCAP survey may be run against server systems. The score and SCAP compliance profile reflects that the SCAP survey was only run against the identified server systems. Thus the results of the SCAP survey may be more meaningful as the results are not diluted to reflect values for systems that do not relate to the analytics being performed.

Although SMS is described as distributing the SCAP configuration and begin a SCAP survey other mechanisms may be used to transport SCAP information. SCAP information may be transported using resident applications on a device e.g. a native application on a PC SOAP SSL NetBIOS DCOM and SSH. In one confirmation SCAP information is transported using electronic mail messaging systems.

In one sense organizational map is a topographical map that illustrates the logical structure for a different domain. However organizational map also may represent a user interface presented to a network administrator to manage organizational resources. The organizational map may be presented for example as part of user interface where a user right clicks on the different objects to retrieve analytical information for one or more devices and or launch a task for the selected object.

Initially a description of a SCAP configuration is received from a configuration server and using SCAP . Receiving a SCAP configuration may include receiving an update from a distributor charged with keeping SCAP current. In one instance receiving the SCAP configuration includes receiving the SCAP configuration from a government operated SCAP server that receives updates from various government organizations. In another instance receiving the SCAP configuration includes receiving the SCAP configuration from a corporate distribution service. The corporate distribution service may assimilate inputs from various government agencies and private commercial security companies that identify threats. The corporate distribution service may transcribe the inputs and advisories so that the SCAP configuration can be readily adopted by a compliance engine on one or more devices.

The description of the SCAP configuration is loaded to a compliance engine on a first client . Loading the SCAP configuration to the compliance engine may include distributing the SCAP configuration via an electronic mail messaging SMS Systems Management Server SOAP SSL Simple Object Access Protocol Secure Sockets Layer NetBIOS DCOM Network Basic Input Output System Distributed Component Object Model and or SSH Secure Shell . Distributing the SCAP configuration may be triggered in response to various criteria. In one configuration the SCAP configuration is distributed on a periodic basis to inspire execution of a SCAP survey on the periodic basis. In another configuration the SCAP configuration is distributed in response to triggering events such as the distribution of a critical advisory from a security institution e.g. an advisory from an operating system manufacturer . Distributing the SCAP configuration may be oriented to the specific device receiving the SCAP configuration. Network infrastructure devices may receive a SCAP configuration oriented towards network infrastructure devices while client devices receive SCAP configurations oriented towards client devices and server systems may receive SCAP configurations oriented towards server systems.

Distributing the SCAP configuration may include distributing a targeted partial or focused SCAP configuration. For example a network administrator may only be interested in identifying compliance with a narrow set of parameters for a critical update. Distributing the SCAP configuration then may instruct client devices to analyze only 10 factors appearing in a single benchmark.

A SCAP survey is executed using the compliance engine with the SCAP configuration . Executing the SCAP survey may include executing the SCAP survey at a specified time or under specified operating conditions. If processor utilization is above a specified threshold the SCAP survey may be delayed until utilization decreases below the threshold.

Executing the SCAP survey may be used as the triggering event in order for other important actions to take place. For instance access to user applications may be limited or precluded until a compliance profile for a device indicates that a threshold degree of compliance has been achieved. Thus a user commencing their workday and booting up a client device may be precluded from accessing messaging and Internet services until the compliance engine determines that a score of 80 has been achieved.

If a threshold score has been achieved the user may be permitted to access specified applications. If a threshold score has not been achieved one or more consequential actions may be performed. In one instance identifying that the client device is below an alarm score triggers an alarm that requires a technician to reconfigure the client device and make necessary changes before the user is permitted to access the specified applications. In another instance the user is permitted to use some or all of the applications but a work order is initiated that instructs a technician to reconfigure the user s client device. In yet configuration the user is permitted to use an application in a first mode e.g. email other personnel within the organization but not use the application in a second mode e.g. email external users .

Based on executing the compliance engine a first SCAP compliance profile is developed . The first SCAP compliance profile identifies the configuration of a device relative to one or more benchmarks. The first SCAP compliance profile may include both detailed forensics indicating specific values for specific tests and higher level descriptions indicating the overall state of a client device. The data in a compliance profile may be structured in order to assimilate data from disparate devices and enable detailed analytics. Specifically the values may include supplemental labels that are not part of a benchmark or standard. Nevertheless the supplemental labels may be used so that a reporting system processing a first and second compliance profile may be categorized to enable drill down analytics. The drill down analytics may be presented for example using the organizational maps that enable a network administrator to perceive results by device type.

The first SCAP compliance profile is provided to a reporting system . Providing the first SCAP compliance profile to the reporting system may include providing the first SCAP compliance profile alongside other SCAP compliance profiles from other compliance engines that enable an organizational SCAP compliance profile to be developed. Providing the SCAP compliance profile to a reporting system may include providing the first SCAP compliance profile using a different delivery mechanism that the mechanism used to deliver the SCAP configuration. For example the SCAP configuration may be delivered using SMS and the first SCAP configuration profile may be provided using SOAP SSL.

The SCAP application on the client device executes the SCAP survey using the SCAP configuration . The SCAP application analyzes one or more constituent components values and settings to determine the state of the client device relative to a guideline or rule specified in the SCAP configuration. As a result of investigating these one or more parameters the SCAP application on the client device develops a SCAP compliance profile . Developing the SCAP compliance profile includes developing metrics for the individual client device as well as developing a higher level analytic score that describes the degree of compliance level patching and vulnerability for the client device. For example the SCAP application may develop a score for the client device enabling a high level description to be presented as was shown in .

The SCAP application on the client device provides the SCAP compliance profile to a web server running the SCAP configuration . Providing the SCAP compliance profile may be provided as part of the power up or power down sequence at a scheduled time during an idle period or in response to receiving a command from a SCAP server and or client device.

Initially the security metric is compared to a standardized security profile . Comparing the security metric to a standardized security profile may include comparing one or more scores to a threshold score used to determine whether permitting the client to operate normally represents an undesirable degree of risk.

The first client is enabled to enter an activated state when comparing the security metric to the security profile indicates that a required level of client security has been achieved . The activated state may include a configuration that lets the user visit trusted web sites utilize network resources e.g. printers and file shares and exchange email. A SCAP application on a client device may permit the client device to enter an activated state when a compliance score a vulnerability score and a patch score are above 80 and a compliance survey has been executed in the previous 30 days.

The first client is instructed to enter a secured state when comparing the security metric to the security profile indicates that a required level of client security has not been achieved . The secured state may only permit a limited degree of use such as for example only permitting the client device to operate in standalone mode and or only permitting the client device to exchange messages with other users within the organization.

A SCAP application on a client device may instruct the client device to initiate corrective actions. The corrective actions may include adding or removing applications blocking or adding system services and or changing system and application settings. The corrective actions may require a system administrator and the SCAP application may launch a help desk ticket that that schedules and instructs a system administrator to perform corrective action on the client device. As a result of performing one or more corrective actions the SCAP application may require the client device to perform a power down and power up sequence in order for system and application settings to take effect.

Alternatively based on comparing the security metric to the standardized security profile the system determines that the required level of client security has not been achieved . The compliance profile may indicate a score of 69 where the security metro is 80.

In response to determining that the required level of client security has not been achieved the system prompts the security administrator for an instruction indicating whether a deviation from the security profile should be used in determining to permit the client to enter the activated state . For example the security administrator may determine that the first client device represents a mission critical system or that the user cannot afford to be interrupted at this time. Alternatively the security administrator may determine that the required change requires changes that are too expensive or cumbersome or that a threat is not worth the impact of the interruption at this time.

The system receives the instruction from the security administrator . The instruction may include a message that was generated from a graphical user interface and launched through the application. Alternatively the instruction may include an option that was selected in a form encompassed in an electronic mail message.

In response to receiving the instruction the first client is enabled to enter an activated state if the instruction indicates that the deviation should be used . In one configuration the deviation includes a command that the parameter should not be considered in calculating a score. In another configuration the deviation indicates that the client device should enter an activated state for a designated period of time irrespective of the score. In yet another configuration the deviation indicates that the severity of the alarm should not trigger a responsive action though other conditions may trigger an alarm that precludes the first client device from entering an activated state.

Alternatively the first client is instructed to enter a secured state if the instruction indicates that the deviation should not be used . A network administrator may determine that a remedial action is required because the first client device represents too important of a system to be subjected to one or more risks associated with the proposed deviation.

Initially at a first instance in time a SCAP configuration is accessed . Accessing the SCAP configuration may include accessing a SCAP configuration that is stored on a SCAP server that administers a SCAP compliance regime for an organization. The first Secure Content Automation Protocol SCAP configuration is translated into an initial normalized security configuration . The SCAP configuration may be translated into an eXtensible Markup Language XML configuration that describes the checks run by a SCAP engine. Because a SCAP configuration may vary with time to reflect different underlying systems and different configurations using a normalized security configuration may be used to provide a degree of abstraction that reduces the administrative burden of maintaining a SCAP application on a client device.

The initial normalized security configuration is distributed to clients for use in executing a first SCAP survey . For example an XML file may be distributed to clients during a weekly update process.

At a second instance in time a second SCAP configuration is received the second SCAP configuration including an update to the first SCAP configuration . The update may include a description of a new patch or an indication that a particular service should be blocked. In response to receiving the second SCAP configuration the initial normalized security configuration is updated into a revised normalized security configuration the revised normalized security configuration supporting the update to the first SCAP configuration . The revised normalized security configuration may include a description of the update in XML format. In one configuration the revised normalized security configuration represents a concatenation of new XML code to the end of a file. In another configuration the revised normalized security configuration represents a revision to existing XML code. The revised normalized security configuration is distributed to the clients for use in executing a second SCAP survey . An XML file with the revised rules may be transmitted to clients during an update process.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers and the host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the client system or the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system and the host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs Local Area Networks and or one or more WANs Wide Area Networks .

The client device or the host controller is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller or a host controller . The client device or the host device is connected to the client controller or the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway or pathway capable of delivering data.

The client device the client controller the host device and the host controller each typically include one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device or a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions.

An example of client controller or a host controller is a software application loaded on the client device or the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device or the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device or the host device to interact and operate as described. The client controller and the host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device or the host device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network capable of enabling direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

Although much of the description described aspects of a client server architecture the SCAP may work in a standalone mode for example using a command line interface. Alternatively or in addition a standalone module or executable may be packaged in a module that enables the standalone module to be distributed in a client server architecture or in a messaging module. The SCAP compliance engine may be configured to work in association with WBEM Web based Enterprise Management or with WMI Windows Management Instrumentation .

The SCAP architecture may be configured to use both push and pull mechanisms. In one configuration a client device is configured to execute a SCAP compliance survey on a periodic basis and report the results upon completion of the SCAP survey. The client device also may be configured to only report the SCAP compliance profile if an anomaly alarm or special situation is detected. The SCAP compliance profile may be configured to store the SCAP compliance profile and provide the SCAP compliance profile in response to receiving a request for the SCAP compliance profile from a SCAP server.

A network administrator also may instruct a SCAP server to launch a SCAP survey for an enterprise on a scheduled basis in response to identifying a new threat and or in response to receiving an alarm that certain systems have been compromised.

The results e.g. the SCAP compliance profile or information related to the SCAP compliance profile such as a summary may be available locally in both detailed and summary form in a variety of formats. For example the results may available in XCCDF form MAGNUS XML or as a registry entry. The SCAP survey may be initiated via a variety of mechanisms including a graphical user interface tool and or an API Application Programming Interface call from another program.

The SCAP architecture may be configured to operate an asynchronous environment. An SCAP application on client device may not always be able to establish and or maintain communications with a remote device. Rather instructions and SCAP configuration information may be received using for example an electronic mail messaging application.

For example a network administrator may be tasked with managing client devices for a mobile sales force or a collection of distributed offices. Because of intermittent connectivity to laptop devices geographic limitations restricting access by help desk personnel intervening firewalls and other factors access between client devices and a SCAP server may be intermittent. To combat these challenges the network administrator may rely on a configuration of a SCAP architecture configured to accommodate the challenges imposed by intermittent access. A network administrator may push a package of instructions using an asynchronous infrastructure such as an electronic mail messaging system. The SCAP server may push the package by sending SCAP instructions and configuration information in the package to a list of recipients e.g. a list of email addresses associated with a particular devices . Upon receiving the SCAP instructions and configuration information through an electronic mail application on a client device. A SCAP application may establish a connection with the electronic mail messaging application so that the electronic mail messaging application is configured to electronic mail messages that include SCAP data instructions and or configuration information to the SCAP information on the client device. The passed information may be passed using for example and API.

The asynchronous environment is not limited to use of electronic mail messaging systems. For example a client device may reference a web server to receive the SCAP instructions data or configuration information. Similarly an RSS Really Simple Syndication feed using an RSS reader may be used to receive SCAP information and instructions.

Irrespective of the asynchronous delivery mechanism used to deliver the SCAP package with SCAP data and instructions an SCAP administrators toolkit may be used to configure the package. illustrate different GUIs for a package builder than can be used to create and push a package using a SCAP server which in turn may distribute the SCAP information to isolated client devices. The SCAP server may be configured to push a package so that the package is accessible across a plurality of platforms. For example the SCAP server may push the SCAP information using electronic mail messaging an RSS Server and using an RSS server. Depending on the user behavior one of the delivery mechanisms may be utilized before the other delivery mechanism. In one configuration the SCAP survey is executed more than once. In another configuration executing the SCAP survey as a result of a first delivery vehicle may preclude execution of an additional SCAP survey. The RSS server may remove an identity of the client device from a file being published in an RSS feed to prevent duplication. Alternatively the SCAP application may disregard additional commands to run the SCAP survey if a rule in a policy has been satisfied e.g. execute a SCAP survey on a periodic basis . The SCAP application also may disregard additional commands to run the SCAP survey if a rule in a policy indicates that the survey should not be run if a particular instruction or configuration e.g. a batch has already been run. The instructions may be labeled in order to track which files have been executed.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term client device and server e.g. host device encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other module suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices.

Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the specification or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the specification. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products. Thus particular implementations of the specification have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

