---

title: System and method for automatically responding to a received communication
abstract: A device and a method of responding to a received interrupt event received by a communication device is provided. The method comprises: determining a current state of availability of a user associated with the device; determining whether a response action to the interrupt event is required based on a level of importance associated with the interrupt event and further based on the current state of availability; and providing notice of response actions which occurred during a previous state of unavailability, where the notice provides a link to initiate a response communication to the interrupt event. The current state of availability may be determined based on data associated with an operating application on the device. Also, providing the notice may occur upon a change of the current state of availability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661142&OS=08661142&RS=08661142
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08661142
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100115
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 159 118 filed on Jun. 23 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 673 055.

The disclosure described herein relates to a system device and method for a communication device automatically responding to a received communication such as an e mail voice mail telephone call short message service SMS etc. In particular the disclosure described herein relates to providing a context based response to the received communication depending on programmable responses provided to the device.

The world has grown accustomed to mobile telephonic devices MTD such as cell phones and phone based Personal Digital Assistants PDAs . These devices function in a wireless network where one or more such devices communicate using voice or data to each other or to external services. Services can include making external phone calls to land line voice networks making phone calls to other cell phones leaving or retrieving voice mail message or exchanging data messages such as e mails text messages pages and others.

There can be issues with responding to senders of communications to such devices. There is a perception that users of such devices are always accessible and are always connected to emails voicemails etc. If a sender of an urgent communication is expecting either rightly or wrongly an immediate response and if the recipient cannot currently monitor for receipt of such a communication e.g. because he is in a meeting then the recipient will not be able to respond to the sender. Prior art auto response systems like vacation type responses for emails provide limited response capabilities and they lack flexibility with the content format and medium used for the response.

The description which follows and the embodiments described therein are provided by way of illustration of an example or examples of particular embodiments of the principles of the present disclosure. These examples are provided for the purposes of explanation and not limitation of those principles and of the disclosure. In the description which follows like parts are marked throughout the specification and the drawings with the same respective reference numerals.

In a first aspect a method of responding to an interrupt event for a communication device is provided. The method comprises determining a current state of availability determining whether a response action to the interrupt event is required based on a level of importance associated with the interrupt event and further based on the current state of availability and providing notice of response actions which occurred during a previous state of unavailability where the notice provides a link to initiate a response communication to the interrupt event.

In the method the current state of availability may be determined based on data associated with an operating application on the device.

The method may further comprise if the response action is to be sent building the response action for the communication device having context data associated with the application where the level of importance is used to determine a level of detail provided by the context data and sending the response action from the communication device to the another device.

In the method the response action may be sent using a communication method that was used to transmit the interrupt event to the communication device and a second response action may be sent from the communication device to the another device in using a different communication method than the communication method used to transmit the interrupt event.

In the method a response template may be provided to allow entry of the response and any other responses in view of the received interrupt event.

In the method the data may relate to a current location identified by a location application operating on the communication device the location application may relate to a GPS function and the response action may indicate that the user is in the current location.

In the method the database may identify response actions using communication methods for a particular sender of communications to the communication device.

In the method the context data may provide location and time data extracted from the data and the data may provide an indicator for the level of detail for the response.

In the method the response action may be selected from sending a generic response and sending a message containing customized fields for the sender based on source information of the interrupt event.

The method may further comprise upon the change of the current state of availability sending another response action from the communication device to another device advising of the change utilizing log data of sent response actions for the communication device.

In a second aspect a communication device for receiving and responding to an interrupt event is provided. The device comprises a microprocessor a calendar application providing instructions to the microprocessor to track and provide a current state of availability of a user of the communication device utilizing availability data provided about the user to the communication device a communication module to receive and send communications utilizing at least one communication technology and an application providing instructions to the microprocessor. The application provides instructions to track the received interrupt event received from the communication module to access a database of response actions for incoming communications where the database lists response action categories against interrupt events to attempt to determine a level of importance for the interrupt event based on source information of the interrupt event if the database contains a record for the interrupt event then to determine whether a response action is to be sent in response to the interrupt event based on the level of importance when the communication device is in the current state of availability and upon a change of the current state of availability to provide a notice on the communication device indicating previous response actions sent during a previous state of unavailability where the notice provides a link to initiate a response communication with another device associated with a sender of the interrupt event.

In the device if the response action is to be sent the application may provide instructions to the microprocessor to build the response action for the communication device having context data associated with at least one application operating on the communication device the level of importance being used to determine a level of detail provided by the context data and to send the response action from the communication device to the another device.

In the device the response action may be sent using a communication technology associated with the received interrupt event.

In the device the communication technology may comprise data and telephonic communications and the application may send the response action using a different communication technology from a communication technology associated with the received interrupt event.

In the device the application may send another response action to the another device upon a change of the current state of availability of the user.

In the device the application may generate a notice indicating responses sent prior to a change of the current state of availability.

In the device the context data may be extracted from at least two applications operating on the communication device and may provide at least data associated with the sender and data associated with the current state of availability of the user.

In the device the current state of availability of the user may be selected from a do not disturb state an available state and a not available state.

In the device upon the change of the current state of availability the application may provide instructions to the microprocessor to send another response action from the communication device to the sender advising of the change utilizing log data of sent response actions for the communication device.

In another aspect a method of responding to a received interrupt event for a user of a communication device is provided. The method comprises the following steps 

A second response action may be generated and sent to the sender by using a communication method different than that used to receive the interrupt event. For example the response action may be to generate and send an email and the second response action may be to generate and send an SMS message or telephone call. Other combinations of communication techniques may be used.

Upon a change of the current state of availability for the device another response action may be sent to the sender advising of the change. Alternatively upon a change of the current state of availability a notice may be provided to the user indicating any responses which were sent prior to the change. The notice may include a link to initiate a response communication with the sender.

In the method the data relates to a current location identified by said location application the location application relates to a GPS function and the response action indicates that the user is in the current location.

In the method the context data may be extracted from two or more applications and may provide data associated with the sender and with said current state of availability of the user.

In the method the current state of availability of the user may selected from a do not disturb state an available state and a not available state.

In yet another aspect a communication device for receiving and responding to a received communication is provided. The device comprises a calendar application to track and provide a current state of availability of a user a communication module to receive and send communications utilizing at least one communication technology and an application to track an interrupt event such as a received communication received from the communication module and to identify whether a response action is to be sent to a sender of the received communication in response to the interrupt event. If the response action is to be sent then the application builds the response action utilizing context data associated with at least one application operating on the device and sends the response action to a sender associated with the interrupt event.

In the device for the response action the application may provide details relating to the current state of availability.

The response action may be sent using the communication technology associated with the received communication.

The device may provide data and telephonic communications. Also the application may send the response action using a different communication technology from a communication technology associated with the received communication.

The application may send another response action to the sender upon a change of the current state of availability of the user.

The application may generate a notice on the device indicating responses sent prior to the change of the current state of availability. The notice may include a link to initiate a response communication with the sender.

In the device the context data may be extracted from at least two applications. The data may provide at least data associated with the sender and with the current state of availability of the user. Further the current state of availability of the user may selected from a do not disturb state an available state and a not available state.

Referring to an electronic device for receiving electronic communications in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is indicated generally at . In the present embodiment electronic device is based on a computing platform having functionality of an enhanced personal digital assistant with cellphone and e mail features. It is however to be understood that electronic device can be based on construction design and functionality of other electronic devices such as smart telephones desktop computers pagers or laptops having telephony equipment. In a present embodiment electronic device includes a housing which frames an LCD display a speaker and LED indicator a trackwheel an exit key and key and a telephone headset comprised of an ear bud and a microphone . Trackwheel and exit key can be inwardly depressed along the path of arrow A as a means to provide additional user input. It will be understood that housing can be made from any suitable material as will occur to those of skill in the art. Device is operable to conduct wireless telephone calls using any known wireless phone system such as a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD system and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system. Other wireless phone systems can include Bluetooth and the many forms of 802.11 wireless broadband like 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g etc. that can support voice. Other embodiments include Voice over IP VoIP type streaming data communications that cap simulate circuit switched phone calls. Ear bud can be used to listen to phone calls and other sound messages and microphone can be used to speak into and input sound messages to device .

Referring to functional elements of device are provided. The functional elements are generally electronic or electro mechanical devices. In particular microprocessor is provided to control and receive almost all data transmissions inputs and outputs related to device . Microprocessor is shown schematically as coupled to keypad display and other internal devices. Microprocessor controls the operation of the display as well as the overall operation of the device in response to actuation of keys on the keypad by a user. Exemplary microprocessors for microprocessor include Data trade mark series microprocessors and the series microprocessors all available from Intel Corporation.

In addition to the microprocessor other internal devices of the device are shown schematically in . These include a communication subsystem a short range communication subsystem keypad and display with other input output devices including a set of auxiliary I O devices a serial port a speaker and a microphone port for microphone as well as memory devices including a flash memory which provides persistent storage of data and Random Access Memory RAM clock and other device subsystems not shown . The device is preferably a two way radio frequency RF communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. In addition device preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the microprocessor is preferably stored in a computer readable medium such as flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM . Communication signals received by the mobile device may also be stored to RAM .

Microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on device . A set of software applications that control basic device operations such as a voice communication module A and a data communication module B may be installed on the device during manufacture or downloaded thereafter. Cell mapping module C may also be installed on device during manufacture. As well additional software modules illustrated as an other software module N which may be for instance a personal information manager PIM application may be installed during manufacture or downloaded thereafter into device . PIM application is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail messages calendar events voice mail messages appointments and task items.

Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communication subsystem and possibly through the short range communication subsystem . Communication subsystem includes receiver transmitter and one or more antennas illustrated as receive antenna and transmit antenna . In addition communication subsystem also includes processing module such as digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network in which device is intended to operate. For example communication subsystem of the device may be designed to operate with the Mobitex trade mark DataTAC trade mark or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communication networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communication networks such as Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Personal Communication Service PCS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM etc. Other types of data and voice telephonic networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with device . In any event communication subsystem provides device with the capability of communicating with other devices using various communication technologies including instant messaging IM systems text messaging TM systems and short message service SMS systems.

In addition to processing communication signals DSP provides control of receiver and transmitter . For example gains applied to communication signals in receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in DSP .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem and is provided as an input to microprocessor . The received signal is then further processed by microprocessor which can then generate an output to the display or to an auxiliary I O device . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using specific keys on keypad a thumbwheel associated with keypad and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a separate thumbwheel or some other input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over communication network via communication subsystem . Subsystem may also detect when it is out of communication range for its remote systems.

In a voice communication mode overall operation of device is substantially similar to the data communication mode except that received signals are output to speaker and signals for transmission are generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on device . In addition display may also be utilized in voice communication mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Short range communication subsystem enables communication between device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth trade mark communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Powering the entire electronics of the mobile handheld communication device is power source . Preferably the power source includes one or more batteries. More preferably the power source is a single battery pack especially a rechargeable battery pack. A power switch not shown provides an on off switch for device . Upon activation of the power switch an application is initiated to turn on device . Upon deactivation of the power switch an application is initiated to turn off device . Power to device may also be controlled by other devices and by internal software applications as described further below.

Referring now to device is shown in operation where applications stored therein are being executed. One overall application is responsible for generating and controlling aspects of main menu screen that displays a system clock which is updated according to internal clock . Main menu screen also displays a plurality of additional applications that are executable on processor . Trackwheel can be used to scroll through the applications and to select a desired application by pressing inwardly along the path of arrow A on trackwheel . Exit key can be used to exit any application by pressing inwardly along the path of arrow A on exit key .

Exemplary applications operating on device include calendar D address book E location module F response application G IM application H TM application SMS application J and availability manager K. Data associated with each application can be stored in flash memory .

Calendar D tracks appointments and other status matters relating to the user and device . It provides a daily weekly month electronic schedule of appointments meetings and events entered by the user. Calendar D tracks time and day data for device using processor and internal clock . The schedule contains data relating to the current accessibility of the user. For example it can indicate when the user is busy not busy available or not available. The application can also set a do not disturb window of time. Effectively device is set to not notify the user when an interrupt event occurs in spite of any lack of scheduled appointments during that window. For example if a telephone call is received in that window the application can automatically route the call to voice mail without initiating the ring tone on device and if an email is received it is automatically stored but no enunciation is generated. Once the window is finished device can then generate notifications e.g. ring tones buzz signals on device to alert the user of the previously received events. At that point the user may then access the storage systems on device to retrieve any stored particulars relating to the events. The do not disturb window allows the user to override any availability settings which are set on device by other applications.

Availability may also be tracked using data extracted from a to do application operating on device . The application can provide context and time sensitive lists of actions which need to be done by the user. The application may be incorporated into calendar application D or may be implemented as a separate notes application not shown .

In use calendar D generates input screens on device prompting the user to input scheduled events through keyboard . Alternatively notification for scheduled events could be received via an encoded signal in a received communication such as an e mail SMS message or voicemail message. Once the data relating to the event is entered calendar D stores processes information relating to the event generates data relating to the event and stores the data in memory in device preferably non volatile memory flash . This data can be accessed by calendar D and other applications.

Address book E enables device to store contact information for persons and organizations. In particular name address telephone numbers e mail addresses cellphone numbers and other contact information is stored. The data is stored in non volatile memory such as persistent storage in device in a database. In use the database is organized such that individual contact information can be accessed and cross referenced to other data in the same or other applications.

Location module F provides the current geographic location of device . In one embodiment it receives and interprets remote GPS signals from a system of satellites to triangulate the current location of device using for example GPS modules and applications known in the art. On device a GPS interface application controls the storage of GPS data retrieved by location module F. Alternatively location information may be determined by analyzing encoded data relating to cellular telephone calls executed on device . For example the encoded data stream can be examined to identify the current base station to which device is communicating.

In any event once location module F has location information for the device it provides graphical information in a map presented on display showing the current location of device . As specific locations may have specific contexts for the user e.g. home office cottage parents home etc. GPS interface application allows associations to be made between specific locations or regions with appropriate text labels. The associations are stored in a database and can be accessed by all applications as needed.

Using the above noted applications and their associated data an embodiment can determine the current availability of the user of device . For example calendar D and its associated data can identify whether the user is currently listed as being in a meeting and if so what time the meeting is scheduled to end. Also using the GPS data the embodiment can identify when the user is at home the office or elsewhere. The current availability can be set using data from one two or more applications.

In a general sense an embodiment provides the ability to determine the availability of a user of device by checking data extracted from at least one of a plurality of systems which can track indicators of the current availability of the user. When an interrupt event is received by device the availability of the user is determined by checking the relevant data from the applications. Depending on the status of the availability a custom response action can be built using context data from a plurality of applications in the device. The context data can provide personal information relating to the sender or the user of the device. When the action is built in the form of a response message it is sent to the sender of the communication using a communication system provided by device .

Using the current availability of the user the embodiment provides customized context sensitive response actions such as response messages to interrupt events such as received communications . In order to provide a customized response response application G defines maintains and controls execution of a set of programmable response actions to interrupt events. It utilizes identification data associated with the event e.g. email s sender caller ID of telephone call and allows specific identification associations to be made with the identification data. For example if the interrupt event is a telephone call having a caller ID of 555 1212 the caller ID may be associated with the user s boss and an email from a specific set of addresses may be associated with the user s spouse. When an interrupt event occurs response application G accesses the identification associations relating to the event to identify its source. It also accesses the current availability data derived from the above noted sources and then analyzes the source of the event with the data and any predetermined custom responses set for that source. It then selectively creates and sends a response to the source of the received communication based on the results of the analysis. All communications are provided through either the communication subsystem or the short range communication subsystem of device . Response application G provides the appropriate communication system with any necessary destination or message information for the communication.

In order to set all of the parameters regarding receiving and responding to communications response application G provides an user interface for the user of device to identify specific types of received communications and set specific response actions to them. The response actions can be dictated by a variety of factors such as 1 the assigned importance of the interrupt event and 2 the current availability of the user. For each factor depending on the level of importance assigned to the noted event a different response action can be generated and sent. Also several responses in different communications modes e.g. telephone email and SMS messages may be sequentially and or conditionally sent depending on the parameters set by the user.

In particular response application G produces an user interface that allows the user to define either manually or from links from other sources such as the address book data a specific set of response s to be generated and sent in response to a particular received communication. One user interface categorizes received events as having different levels of importance such as Ignore Standard and Urgent. For each level of importance an event is provided with a pre set type of response. However each response action still can be customized by the user according his needs. Table A provides a template of an exemplary set of levels of importance with initially programmed responses.

In other embodiments the user may be presented with other user interfaces which provide entry of response actions in different orders. For example one user interface implements a sender centric approach. In such an interface response application provides a template for a particular sender and allows the definition of different response actions to be made depending on the current availability of the user. Table B provides a template of an exemplary set of programmed responses to communications from a particular sources.

As a variation on ranking features illustrated in Tables A and B additional tables may be provided which allow a consistent type of response to be generated and sent depending on the type of received communication e.g. all telephone calls are sent to voice mail all emails are ignored etc. Once the data is entered into the corresponding forms it is stored as data in memory in device preferably non volatile memory such as flash memory . This data can be accessed by response application G and other applications.

When responses are generated and sent the embodiment keeps a log of details of the response actions. As with other data this data is stored in memory in device preferably non volatile memory such as persistent storage . This data can be accessed by response application G and other applications.

As noted above the embodiment provides customized responses for received communications. In order to define and store a set of customized responses the embodiment provides a series of user interfaces to define parameters for each response. Two responses exemplary are an auto reply email and an auto reply SMS message. Form A provides an exemplary response defined and saved by the user which is selectively sent in response to identified received communications.

For Form A a macro function enables its fields to be populated from data stored in any application such as calendar application D address book E or location module F. Such data can be used as context data to provide customized information in the response. As such macro fields are denoted with a prefix and a label in bold . Data for the fields may be extracted from the received communication and calendar application D. For example if the received interrupt event is a telephone call the sender data may be extracted from calling party data stored with address book E which is correlated to the received telephone number. Also the endtime field may be extracted from calendar data stored with calendar application D which is correlated to the current meeting schedule of the user stored therein. It will be appreciated that other label fields can be used to build a form to meet different needs for the user. Each field may access data stored in association with any application as needed. For a telephone reply message the embodiment can use a stored digitized voice message a stored custom message or a stored sound note which is played when device is programmed to make a telephone call in response to a received telephone call having a defined response associated with it. For the responding call device utilizes a telephonic call module is communication subsystem to identify and initiate an appropriate call.

Other features of the embodiment include the ability to generate an additional response action to one or more specific senders when the state of availability changes from unavailable e.g. presently in a meeting presently in a do not disturb setting or presently at home to available e.g. meeting has ended or presently in transit from home . The additional response action can be of any type. One response action is to generate and send a response message that advises the sender of the change of status. In order to identify when and to whom such additional messages should be sent to the embodiment accesses the log data of sent response actions relevant information e.g. sender type of message sent etc. .

As another feature upon the change of status of the user the device may generate a notice on device which provides details on the logged communications received and responded to during the event. The notice may be sent via email or may be provided as a separate message by response application G. The notice can give particulars of each received communication and for selective communications e.g. communications marked as urgent the notice can provide a link to the user to initiate a response communication immediately e.g. initiate a telephone call or an email message .

It will be appreciated that the above noted features may be implemented in various software modules stored in an embodiment. Separate modules may be provided for identifying received interrupt events building an appropriate response and sending a response. One exemplary implementation is provided below.

As noted response module G operates to define response actions to received interrupt events. In another embodiment availability manager K also operates on device and manages the process of receiving interrupt events analyzing them for response actions then generating and sending any response action. As shown it provides similar but expanded functionalities over response application G. Referring to flow chart provides a view of three processes conducted by availability manager K. The first process shown at detects an interrupt event received by device . To accomplish this availability manager K is provided an indication from other modules such as communications subsystem or short range communications module that an interrupt event has been received. Availability manager K then identifies relevant source data from the event and then optionally verifies the data. The second process shown at builds an appropriate response action in response to the event. The response action is determined using availability data associated with the user. The availability data may be determined from data stored in calendar function D data stored in address book E or location data provided by location module F. Data from different modules may be combined to determine the response action. For example location module F may indicate that the user is at his designated home and address book E data may indicate that a message received from the user s spouse has a specific reply text. As such if an interrupt event is a message received from the spouse then availability manager K may be programmed to generate a specific response to the spouse. Conversely if the interrupt action is a telephone call from the user s boss then availability manager K may be programmed to generate a different response action. Third process shown at generates and sends the response action. The response action may include context and configuration information obtained from data from the other modules. For example the response action may be set to generate a telephone call or an email message.

Referring to flow chart provides further detail on the three processes shown in generally in chart of . Each process is described in turn.

For first process it starts by the user activating availability manager K at step . This may be done through a GUI produced by availability manager K. Once activated availability manager K waits for receipt of any interrupt event. Typically the event will be in the form of a received message received from communications subsystem or short range communications system . Pertinent data relating to the received message will generated by applications in device and given to availability manager K through an application programming interface API operating on device . When the event is received it is analyzed to determine whether availability manager K can process the event. This is done at step . Then at decision point if the event can be processed then availability manager K starts second process otherwise first process loops back to step .

The main function of second process is to identify relevant data stored in device related to the received interrupt event and then build an appropriate response action to it utilizing parameters defined by availability manager K. The response action is built as a macro. In particular steps and examine data associated with calendar D to determine whether the user is currently unavailable. Additional location information may be obtained from data associated with location module E for the macro at step . The location information may include text data providing a string noting the contextual location associated with the GPS data. For example the location latitude 42.28N longitude 80.23W may be assigned the location Home . At step the data is examined to see if there is text data associated with the location and depending on whether or not the text data exists the macro for a response is built with the text data at step A or without it at step B. This concludes second process .

Next third process begins at step by taking the built macro response and examining the data in address book E to determine whether there is any address information associated with the sender of the interrupt event. If there is no stored address information relating to the sender of the interrupt event then device sends a generic response to the sender at step . However if there is stored address information then in step the address data is scanned for any particular instructions regarding delivery of the response message. Using any such instructions the set of response instructions are executed in step . Once a message is sent either in step or step third process is effectively completed and the operation of availability manager K returns to first process at step .

Table C provides a list of exemplary responses which can be stored and generated by availability manager K.

In one embodiment each response type may be a template with data for the bold and underlined sections extracted from data provided by other modules e.g. calendar D and address book E . The response types have differing levels of detail. As such a particular response type may be selected to provide an appropriate amount of information making it more useful to the recipient. For example if a trustworthiness indicator is provided for each entry in address book E then when interrupt events are received from a sender having a high level of trustworthiness the response type may be set to provide more detail rather than less. Alternatively if there is no entry in address book G for the sender of the interrupt event availability module K may be set to provide no response or send the generic response.

It will be appreciated that in other embodiments different processes may be defined to implement the general processes defined for the three processes identified above. As such the functional boundaries of the processes may be redefined to include aspects of other processes.

When availability manager K is operating on device when an interrupt event is received by either communication subsystem or short range subsystem data relating to the event is provided to availability manager K through an API as noted earlier . Depending on the status of the current availability of the user as set in manager K it may selectively populate a template as a response action. User fields in template are set to be populated with data stored by various applications . For example the sender field in template may be populated by the name data entry in entry E after manager K cross references source information extracted from the interrupt event and correlates it to data maintained by address book E in flash memory . Similarly the endtime field may be populated by the End Time data entry in entry D after manager K cross references end time data maintained by calendar D in flash memory . Other fields may be populated using data from other applications. Once the template is fully populated it is further processed by availability manager K and send through a selected communication system per the parameters set for the response action.

It will be appreciated that the response application and other applications in the embodiments can be implemented using known programming techniques languages and algorithms. Data storage access and update algorithms allow data to be shared between applications e.g. between calendar application and response application . Signals can be generated sent received and responded to between modules using known programming techniques. For example when a telephone call is received by the communication module an internal signal can be generated and sent to the response module to indicate that the call has been received. Known programming algorithms can be used to process data relating to received communications against stored response criteria and availability conditions to identify an appropriate response.

The present disclosure is defined by the claims appended hereto with the foregoing description being merely illustrative of a preferred embodiment of the disclosure. Those of ordinary skill may envisage certain modifications to the foregoing embodiments which although not explicitly discussed herein do not depart from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

