---

title: Collector having multiple resin layers for bipolar lithium ion secondary battery
abstract: To provide a method that is capable of suppressing absorption of lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector that is used in a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery. The collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery of the invention has at least two conductive layers. One of the conductive layers that constitute the collector (a first conductive layer) is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base material that contains an imide group-containing resin. The other of the conductive layers that constitute the collector (a second conductive layer) is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base material that contains a polar resin containing no imide group. The collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery is further characterized in that when a bipolar electrode is formed, the first conductive layer is arranged on the positive electrode side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077040&OS=09077040&RS=09077040
owner: NISSAN MOTOR CO., LTD.
number: 09077040
owner_city: Yokohama-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101206
---
The present invention relates to a collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery and a bipolar electrode for a lithium ion secondary battery and a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery using the collector.

From the viewpoint of an influence on environment or fuel efficiency a hybrid electric vehicle HEV an electric vehicle EV and a fuel cell vehicle has been manufactured and sold in recent days and new models has been continuously developed. For the so called electromotive vehicles use of a power supply device that can be discharged and charged is essential. As the power supply device a secondary battery like a lithium ion battery and a nickel hydrogen battery an electric double layer capacitor or the like is used. In particular having high energy density and high durability against repeated charge and discharge the lithium ion secondary battery is believed to be suitable for an electromotive vehicle and efforts are made to develop their various types. However to apply it to a motor driving power supply of various vehicles it is necessary to use plural secondary batteries connected in series to guarantee a large output.

However when a battery is connected through a connection section an output is lowered by electric resistance of the connection section. Further a battery with a connection section is spatially disadvantageous. Specifically output density or energy density of a battery degrades by a connection section.

For solving those problems a bipolar secondary battery like a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery is developed. The bipolar secondary battery has an electric power generating element having plural bipolar electrodes laminated therein and intervened by an electrolyte layer or a separator in which a positive electrode active material layer is formed on one side of a collector and a negative electrode active material layer is formed on the other side of a collector.

To guarantee higher output density the collector used for the bipolar secondary battery is preferably made of a lightweight material having excellent conductivity. From such point of view a collector composed of a polymer material added with conductive materials i.e. a resin collector is suggested to replace conventionally used metal foils. For example in Patent Literature 1 a resin collector composed of a polymer material in which metal particles or carbon particles are added as a conductive material is disclosed.

Meanwhile compared to a metal foil collector the resin collector as disclosed in Patent Literature 1 has a less favorable blocking for lithium ions that are contained in an electrolyte liquid. For such reasons it is found that when it is applied for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery lithium ions penetrate an inner portion of a resin collector which constitutes a bipolar electrode and the ions are maintained in absorbed state in the inner portion of the collector. Since the absorbed lithium ions are not easily released from the inner portion of a collector the battery capacity would be reduced consequently in some case.

The resin for constituting a resin collector is preferably a resin that is hardly deformed by a heat or pressure treatment during battery fabrication and has excellent heat resistance strength and solvent resistance so as not to easily dissolve in a solvent of an electrolyte liquid. As a resin having such properties an imide group containing resin like polyimide is very preferable. However it is also found that the lithium ion absorption into the inner portion of a collector is particularly significant when an imide group containing resin is used.

Under the circumstances the object of the invention is to provide a method capable of suppressing absorption of lithium ions into the inner portion of resin collector which contains an imide group containing resin and is used in a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery.

The inventors of the invention carried out intensive studies for solving the problems described above. During the course of the studies they clarified a mechanism of lithium ion absorption into a resin collector and the invention is completed based on the finding.

Specifically the collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery of the invention has at least two conductive layers. One of the conductive layers that constitutes the collector in the specification referred to as a first conductive layer is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base that contains an imide group containing resin. The other of the conductive layers that also constitutes the collector in the specification referred to as a second conductive layer is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base that contains a polar resin containing no imide group. Further when a bipolar electrode is formed the first conductive layer is arranged on the positive electrode side.

According to the invention when energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of a conductive resin layer having conductivity i.e. conductive layer arranged on a negative electrode side of a bipolar electrode increases by negative electrode potential the increased level is suppressed not to be higher than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in an electrolyte liquid. As a result penetration and absorption of the lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector are prevented.

Herein below preferred embodiments of the invention are described in view of the drawings. However as the technical scope of the invention should be determined based on the descriptions of the claims it is not limited to the following aspects. Further for explanation of the drawings the same symbols are given to the same elements and explanation is not repeated. Further dimension ratio is exaggerated in the drawings for the sake of description and it may be different from the real ratio. Herein below a resin layer having conductivity may be simply referred to as a resin layer a collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery may be simply referred to as a collector and a bipolar electrode for a lithium ion secondary battery may be simply referred to as a bipolar electrode .

Herein the first conductive layer is configured by adding about 10 by mass of Ketjen Black as a conductive filler to a base material comprising polyimide PI for example. Further the second conductive layer is configured by adding the same conductive filler to a base material comprising an ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer EVOH for example. Further the positive electrode active material layer contains LiMnO not illustrated as a positive electrode active material for example and the negative electrode active material layer contains hard carbon not illustrated as a negative electrode active material for example. Herein below main constitutional elements of the collector and the bipolar electrode of the embodiment are described.

The collector has a function of mediating the transfer of electrons from one surface on which the positive electrode active material layer is formed to the other surface on which the negative electrode active material layer is formed.

According to the embodiment the collector has two conductive layers and . Herein the conductive layer a first conductive layer that is arranged on the positive electrode active material layer side of the bipolar electrode is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base material which contains an imide group containing resin. Depending on specific case it may contain additional additives. By having this constitution it has a function of an electron transporting medium and it can also contribute to a lightweight collector.

A base material for the first conductive layer essentially contains an imide group containing resin. Since the imide group containing resin has excellent heat resistance strength and solvent resistance when it is used as a base material of a collector a collector which hardly undergoes any deformation under a heat or pressure treatment during battery fabrication and hardly dissolves in a solvent of an electrolyte liquid can be obtained. Examples of the imide group containing resin include in addition to polyimide PI polyamide imide PAI and polyether imide PEI . Of these as an imide group containing resin polyimide PI is preferably used. The imide group containing resin may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

The base material for constituting the first conductive layer may contain a conventionally known non conductive polymer material or conductive polymer material in addition to the imide group containing resin. Examples of the non conductive polymer material include polyethylene PE high density polyethylene HDPE low density polyethylene LDPE polypropylene PP polyethylene terephthalate PET polybutylene terephthalate PBT polyether nitrile PEN polyamide PA polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE styrene butadiene rubber SBR polyacrylonitrile PAN polymethyl acrylate PMA polymethyl methacrylate PMMA polyvinyl chloride PVC polyvinylidene fluoride PVdF and polystyrene PS . Examples of the conductive polymer material include polyaniline polypyrrole polythiophene polyacetylene polyparaphenylene polyphenylene vinylene polyacrylonitrile and polyoxadiazole. The non conductive polymer material or conductive polymer material may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

In the polymer materials resin for the base material the addition amount of the imide group containing resin in a corresponding base material can be decided from the viewpoint of obtaining better working effect of the embodiment. Specifically the addition amount of the imide group containing resin more preferably polyimide PI is preferably 50 by mass or more more preferably 70 by mass or more still more preferably 90 by mass or more even still more preferably 95 by mass or more and most preferably 100 by mass in the 100 by mass of the resin which constitutes a base materiel.

Examples of the conductive filler to be added to a base material for the first conductive layer include although not specifically limited conductive carbon tin Sn and lithium titanate LiTiO . It is preferable that the conductive carbon contains at least one selected from a group consisting of acetylene black Vulcan black pearl carbon nanofibers Ketjen Black carbon nanotubes carbon nanohorn carbon nanobaloon and fullerene. Those conductive carbons have a very large potential window to be stable in a wide range of positive and negative potentials and illustrate excellent electrical conductivity. Among them it is preferable to contain at least one selected from a group consisting of carbon nanotubes carbon nanohorn Ketjen Black carbon nanobaloon and fullerene. Since the conductive carbon has a hollow structure surface area per mass is large and it can be used to further reduce the weight of a collector. Meanwhile at least one metal selected from a group consisting of Ni Al Cu Pt Fe Cr Zn In Sb and K an alloy containing the metal or metal oxides thereof may be also used as a conductive filler. Those metals are resistant against the potential of a positive electrode or a negative electrode which is formed on surface of a collector. For example Al is resistant against the potential of a positive electrode Ni and Cu are resistant against the potential of a negative electrode and Pt is resistant against both electrodes. Among them an alloy containing at least one metal selected from a group of Ni Al Cu Pt Fe and Cr is more preferable. Specific examples of the alloy include stainless steel SUS INCONEL registered trade mark HASTELLOY registered trade mark other Fe Cr based alloys and Ni Cr based alloys. By using those alloys even higher potential resistance can be obtained. In addition the conductive filler may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Shape of the conductive filler is not specifically limited. It can be appropriately selected from known shapes including particle shape fiber shape plate shape bulk shape fabric shape and mesh shape. When it is desired to provide widely an electrical conductivity to a resin it is preferable to use a particle shape conductive filler. Meanwhile when it is desired to increase an electrical conductivity in a specific direction a conductive filler which has a certain direction in the shape like a fiber shape is preferably used.

Size of the conductive filler is not specifically limited. Depending on size and thickness of a conductive layer and shape of a conductive filler a filler with various size can be used. When the conductive filler has a particle shape for example the average particle diameter is preferably equal to or more from 0.1 and equal to or less 10 m or so from the viewpoint of easy molding of the conductive layer. In addition as used herein the term particle diameter refers to a maximum distance L among distances of any two points on the contour of a conductive filler particle. The term average particle diameter refers to an average of the particle diameters of conductive filler particles observed in several to several ten fields by an observation means such as scanning electron microscope SEM or transmission electron microscope TEM . The same definitions apply to the particle diameter and average particle diameter of the active materials as will be mentioned later.

The amount of the conductive filler contained in the conductive layer is not specifically limited either. However with respect to the whole mass of the base material the amount of the conductive filler is preferably 5 to 35 by mass more preferably 5 to 25 by mass and more preferably 5 to 15 by mass. By adding the conductive filler in such amount to the base material a base material can be provided with a sufficient electrical conductivity while mass increase of the conductive layer is suppressed.

The dispersion state of the conductive filler in the conductive layer is not specifically limited. It may be homogeneously dispersed in a resin as a base material or locally dispersed in limited part of a resin.

In the conductive layer a second conductive layer arranged on negative electrode active material layer side of the bipolar electrode a conductive filler is added to a base material which contains a polar resin containing no imide group.

In the second conductive layer the base material contains a polar resin containing no imide group. In the present embodiment the base material contains a polar resin containing no imide group contributes to suppression of the penetration and absorption of lithium ions into the collector . As used herein the expression that the resin containing no imide group is polar means that the corresponding resin has polarity as a whole. In such case the resin containing no imide group has a polar group or a derivative thereof for example. The term polar group means a group of atoms having polarity. Further the term derivative of a polar group means the polar group which is modified without significant change of the mother skeleton by introducing a further functional group or substituting atoms into the above mentioned polar group . Thus the resin containing no imide group which constitutes the second conductive layer itself can have a polarity by the polar group or derivative group is incorporated thereinto. Examples of the polar group which can be used for providing the resin containing no imide group with a polar property include a hydroxy group an amide group a sulfide group a halogen atom such as a fluorine atom an ether group and an amino group but not limited thereto. Since the polar resin containing no imide group has a strong intermolecular force in the resins i.e. ionic interaction hydrogen bond or the like it can prevent the penetration of lithium ions into the inner portion of the collectors .

The resin containing no imide group may be either crystalline or non crystalline. From the viewpoint of obtaining more efficient suppression of the penetration and absorption of lithium ions into the inner portion of the collectors the resin containing no imide group is preferably crystalline. The reason is that since the crystalline resin containing no imide group has a greater number of chemical bonds e.g. a covalent bond an ionic bond a hydrogen bond and a van der Waals bond per unit volume compared to the non crystalline resin containing no imide group it is more difficult for the lithium ions to penetrate it. In the present specification the expression that the resin containing no imide group is crystalline means that the corresponding resin containing no imide group is a crystalline polymer. In addition the term crystalline polymer indicates a polymer that can crystallize at least in its part.

Examples of the crystalline resin containing no imide group include polyethylene polypropylene an ionomer polyethylene terephthalate polyamide polyacetal polybutylene terephthalate polyethylene with ultra high molecular weight polyphenylene sulfide polyether ether ketone polytetrafluoroethylene and a copolymer thereof.

Examples of the non crystalline resin containing no imide group include polystyrene rubber reinforced polystyrene acrylonitrile styrene copolymer acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer styrene methyl acrylate copolymer styrene methyl methacrylate butadiene copolymer polycarbonate polymethyl acrylate polymethyl methacrylate polylactate polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride vinyl chloride ethylene copolymer vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer styrene isoprene styrene copolymer styrene ethylene butyrene styrene copolymer polybutadiene polyisoprene polychloroprene styrene butadiene copolymer ethylene olefine copolymer ethylene propylene diene copolymer cycloolefine ethylene tetracyclododecene copolymer polysulfone polyether sulfone polyphenylene oxide polyvinyl acetate polyphenylene ether and a liquid crystalline polymer.

Specific examples of the resin containing no imide group which can be used for the second conductive layer include ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer EVOH having a hydroxy group polyamide PA such as Nylon registered trademark 12 having an amide group polyphenylene sulfide PPS having a sulfide group tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene copolymer FEP and tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkyl vinyl ether copolymer having a fluorine atom polyether ether ketone PEEK polyether ketone PEK and an epoxy resin having an ether group and a melamine resin having an amino group but not limited thereto. Of these from the viewpoint of obtaining better working effect of the embodiment EVOH is preferably used. The ethylene composition in EVOH is although not specifically limited preferably 10 to 60 mol more preferably 20 to 55 mol and still more preferably 30 to 45 mol considering fusibility or the like during manufacturing.

The base material for the second conductive layer may further contain in addition to the resin containing no imide group described above a conventionally known non conductive polymer material or conductive polymer material that are described above in relation to the first conductive layer . However in the polymer materials resin for constituting the base material the addition amount of the resin containing no imide group in the base material may be decided from the viewpoint of obtaining better working effect of the embodiment. Specifically the addition amount of the resin containing no imide group with respect to 100 by mass of the resin for the base material is preferably 50 by mass or more more preferably 70 by mass or more still more preferably 90 by mass or more even still more preferably 95 by mass or more and most preferably 100 by mass. Further from the viewpoint of obtaining better exhibition of the working effect of the embodiment the addition amount of the imide group containing resin in the second conductive layer can be also decided. Specifically the addition amount of the imide group containing resin with respect to 100 by mass of the resin for the base material is preferably 50 by mass or less more preferably 30 by mass or less still more preferably 10 by mass or less even still more preferably 5 by mass or less and most preferably 0 by mass i.e. the imide group containing resin is not contained .

When the second conductive layer is according to the embodiment 1 the second conductive layer is configured by adding a conductive filler into a base material which is composed of the resin described above. Regarding the specific examples of the conductive filler used therefor the same types as those described above as a constitutional material for the first conductive layer can be also used and therefore detailed descriptions are not repeated.

As long as it contains at least one layer for each of the first conductive layer relatively arranged on a positive electrode side and the second conductive layer relatively arranged on a negative electrode side which satisfies the definition any collector is within the technical scope of the invention. The embodiment of the collector is not limited to the one illustrated in the drawings and it may have various embodiments. For example the collector may be a laminate in which an additional layer is contained in addition to the layers described above if necessary. Examples of the additional layer include a metal layer and an adhesive layer but not limited thereto.

Further when plural conductive layers containing the resin are laminated for producing the collector of the embodiment the plural conductive layers can be adhered by heat sealing. Examples of a method for laminating a conductive layer containing the resin and a metal layer include a metal deposition e.g. plating and sputtering on a conductive layer and a method of melting and applying the resin on a metal foil. From the viewpoint of lowering contact resistance at an interface of neighboring layers or preventing peeling of an adhered face two layers may be adhered on each other through an adhesion layer. Examples of the material used for the adhesion layer include conductive paste based on metal oxides such as zinc oxide indium oxide and titanium oxide and conductive paste based on carbon such as carbon black carbon nanotubes and graphite.

Thickness of the collector is preferably low from the viewpoint of increasing output density of a battery by weight reduction. It is tolerate for a bipolar secondary battery that the collector present between a positive electrode active material layer and a negative electrode active material layer of a bipolar electrode has high electric resistance in the horizontal direction of the lamination then the thickness of the collector can be reduced. Specifically the lower limit of the thickness of the collector is preferably 10 m or more more preferably 20 m or more and still more preferably 30 m or more. Further the upper limit of the collector is preferably 200 m or less more preferably 100 m or less and still more preferably 80 m or less. By having such thickness a lightweight and also sufficient mechanical strength can be obtained. Thickness of each of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer is not specifically limited either. Specifically the lower limit of the thickness of each of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer is preferably 5 m or more more preferably 7 m or more and still more preferably 10 m or more. Further the upper limit of each of the first conductive layer and the second conductive layer is preferably 100 m or less more 50 m or less and still more preferably 40 m or less. The ratio of the thickness of the first conductive layer and the thickness of the second conductive layer is not specifically limited either. In terms of the first conductive layer the second conductive layer it is preferably 1000 1 to 1 1000 more preferably 100 1 to 1 100 still more preferably 5 1 to 1 15 even still more preferably 2 1 to 1 5 and most preferably 1 1 to 1 4. By selecting the ratio within the above range the capability of blocking against lithium ions or an electrolyte liquid is sufficiently exhibited thereby it may contribute to the improvement of battery capacity. In particular according to the embodiment in which the second conductive layer is thicker than the first conductive layer the ability of blocking against lithium ions is more significantly exhibited then the reduction in battery capacity can be prevented with higher efficiency.

The upper limit of the volume resistance of the collector is preferably 10 cm or less from the viewpoint of battery performance. Meanwhile the lower limit of the volume resistance of the collector is preferably 10 cm or more and more preferably 10 cm from the viewpoint of reliability against malfunction i.e. suppressing current concentration at short circuit area when short circuit arises. The ratio of the volume resistance of the first conductive layer positive electrode side and the volume resistance of the second conductive layer negative electrode side of the collector is in terms of positive electrode side negative electrode side preferably 1 1000 to 1000 1 and more preferably 1 100 to 100 1. According to this embodiment a capability of current collecting which is the main function of the collector is obtained at sufficient level and therefore it may contribute to the improvement of battery capacity. Meanwhile to obtain such volume resistance the amount of a conductive filler or type of a conductive filler that is added to a base material resin for producing a conductive layer and dispersion state can be suitably adjusted. As used herein the volume resistance ratio value is measured by the method described in the Examples given below.

Herein below working effects of the collector of the embodiment are described. In general energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of the conductive layer that is arranged on the negative electrode side of a bipolar electrode increases by supply of electrons based on a negative electrode potential. Inventors found that when the increased level is greater than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in the electrolyte liquid electron moves and it is accompanied with penetration of lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector.

According to the collector of the embodiment even when the energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of the second conductive layer that is arranged on the negative electrode side of a bipolar electrode increases the increased level is suppressed to be lower than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in an electrolyte liquid. As a result penetration and absorption of the lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector are prevented i.e. lithium ion blocking is exhibited .

Until now a method of providing a metal layer i.e. a barrier layer on part of the collector is suggested to achieve the lithium ion blocking in a resin collector. However as the metal layer has a small resistance when internal short circuit occurs inside the battery the currents may be concentrated on an area having short circuit to cause heat generation in the battery. Meanwhile the conductive layer and of the collector of the embodiment has high resistance in the surface direction of the collector and therefore a current cannot easily flow to an area having short circuit even when internal short circuit occurs inside the battery. As a result heat generation in the battery is inhibited. Thus compared to a conventional resin collector containing a metal layer the collector of the embodiment has also excellent reliability against malfunction.

The positive electrode active material layer contains a positive electrode active material. The positive electrode active material has a composition capable of absorbing ions during discharging and releasing ions during charging. Preferred examples thereof include lithium transition metal composite oxides which are composite oxides of a transition metal and lithium. Specific examples thereof include Li.Co based composite oxide such as LiCoO Li.Ni based composite oxide such as LiNiO Li.Mn based composite oxide such as spinel LiMnOO Li.Fe based composite oxide such as LiFeO and those obtained by replacing parts of transition metal elements of the lithium transition metal composite oxides with other elements. The lithium transition metal composite oxides are a non expensive material with excellent reactivity and an excellent cycle property. Thus by using the materials for an electrode a battery with excellent output characteristics can be produced. Examples of the usable positive electrode active material other than those described above include lithium transition metal phosphate compounds and lithium transition metal sulfate compounds such as LiFePO oxides or sulfides of a transition metal such as VO MnO TiS MoS and MoO and PbO AgO and NiOOH. The positive electrode active material may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Average particle diameter of the positive electrode active material is although not specifically limited preferably 1 to 100 m and more preferably 1 to 20 m from the viewpoint of obtaining high capacity reactivity and cycle durability of the positive electrode active material. When it is within this range an increase in internal resistance of a battery during charging and discharging under high output condition is inhibited thereby a sufficient current can be generated. In addition when the positive electrode active material is a secondary particle the average particle diameter of a primary particle which constitutes the secondary particles is preferably in the range of 10 nm to 1 m. However according to the invention it is not necessarily limited to the range. Although it may vary depending on production method it is needless to say that the positive electrode active material which is not prepared as a secondary particle by aggregation or taking bulk shape can be also used. As for the particle diameter of the positive electrode active material and the particle diameter of the primary particle a median radius measured by a laser diffraction method can be used. Shape of the positive electrode active material varies depending on the type production method or the like and examples thereof include a globule shape powder shape a plate shape a needle shape a cylinder shape and a cone shape but not limited thereto. Any shape can be used without specific problem. Preferably a shape most appropriate for an improved battery characteristic like a charging and discharging characteristic is selected.

The negative electrode active material layer contains a negative electrode active material. The negative electrode active material has a composition capable of releasing ions during discharging and absorbing ions during charging. The negative electrode active material is not specifically limited as long as it can reversibly absorb and release lithium. Examples of the negative electrode active material include a metal such as Si and Sn metal oxide such as TiO TiO TiO SiO SiO and SnO lithium transition metal composite oxides such as LiTiOand LiMnN Li Pb based alloy Li Al based alloy Li and carbon materials such as natural graphite artificial graphite carbon black active carbon carbon fiber cockes soft carbon and hard carbon. The negative electrode active material preferably contains an element which can form an alloy with lithium. By using an element which can form an alloy with lithium the battery having high capacity and excellent output characteristics which also has higher energy density compared to existing carbon materials can be obtained. The negative electrode active material may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Specific examples of the element which can form an alloy with lithium include although not specifically limited Si Ge Sn Pb Al In Zn H Ca Sr Ba Ru Rh Ir Pd Pt Ag Au Cd Hg Ga Tl C N Sb Bi O S Se Te and Cl. Of these from the viewpoint of producing a battery with excellent capacity and energy density it is preferable to include a carbon material and or at least one element selected from a group consisting of Si Ge Sn Pb Al In and Zn. Particularly preferably it includes a carbon material or an element of Si or Sn. It may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Average particle diameter of the negative electrode active material is although not specifically limited preferably 1 to 100 m and more preferably 1 to 20 m from the viewpoint of obtaining high capacity reactivity and cycle durability of the negative e electrode active material. Within this range an increase in internal resistance of a battery during charging and discharging under high output condition is inhibited thereby a sufficient current can be generated. When the negative electrode active material is a secondary particle the average particle diameter of a primary particle which constitutes the secondary particles is preferably in the range of 10 nm to 1 m. However according to the invention it is not necessarily limited to the range. Although it may vary depending on production method it is needless to say that the negative electrode active material which is not prepared as a secondary particle by aggregation or taking bulk shape can be also used. As for the particle diameter of the negative electrode active material and the particle diameter of the primary particle a median radius measured by a laser diffraction method can be used. Shape of the negative electrode active material varies depending on the type production method or the like and examples thereof include a globule shape powder shape a plate shape a needle shape a cylinder shape and a cone shape but not limited thereto. Any shape can be used without specific problem. Preferably a shape most appropriate for obtaining an improved battery characteristic like a charging and discharging characteristic is selected.

If necessary the active material layers and may contain an additional material. Examples thereof include a conductive auxiliary agent and a binder. Further when an ion conductive polymer is contained therein a polymerization initiator for polymerization of the polymer may be included.

The conductive auxiliary agent is an additive which is added to improve the conductivity of the active material layer. Examples of the conductive auxiliary agent include acetylene black carbon black Ketjen Black carbon powder such as graphite various carbon fibers such as vapor grown carbon fiber VGCF registered trademark and expanded graphite. However it is needless to say that the conductive auxiliary agent is not limited to them.

Examples of the binder include polyfluorovinylidene PVdF PI PTFE SBR and synthetic rubber based binder. However it is needless to say that the binder is not limited to them. When the binder and the matrix polymer that is used as a gel electrolyte are identical to each other there is no need to use a binder.

The addition ratio of the components that are included in the active material layer is not specifically limited. The addition ratio can be suitably adjusted according to common knowledge regarding a lithium ion secondary battery. Thickness of the active material layer is not specifically limited either. It can be also suitably adjusted according to common knowledge regarding a lithium ion secondary battery. For example the thickness of the active material layer is 10 to 100 m or so and more preferably 20 to 50 m. When the thickness of the active material layer is 10 m or more the battery capacity can be maintained at sufficient level. Meanwhile when the thickness of the active material layer is 100 m or less a problem of increased internal resistance which is accompanied with reduced diffusion of Li to a deep portion of electrode i.e. collector side can be prevented.

Method to form a positive electrode active material layer or a negative electrode active material layer on a surface of a collector is not specifically limited and any known method can be also used. For example a positive electrode active material or a negative electrode active material and if necessary an electrolyte salt to increase ion conductivity a conductive auxiliary agent to increase electron conductivity and a binder are dispersed and dissolved in an appropriate solvent to prepare a positive electrode active material slurry or a negative electrode active material slurry . After coating the slurry on a collector the solvent is removed by drying. Then by pressing a positive electrode active material layer or a negative electrode active material layer is formed on a collector. In such case examples of the solvent that can be used include although not specifically limited N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP dimethyl formamide dimethyl acetamide methyl formamide cyclohexane hexane and water. When polyfluorovinylidene PVdF is used as a binder it is preferable to use NMP as a solvent.

According to the above method the positive electrode active material slurry or negative electrode active material slurry is coated on a collector and dried followed by pressing. By controlling the condition for pressing porosity of the positive electrode active material layer or negative electrode active material layer can be controlled.

Specific method or condition for the press treatment is not specifically limited. It can be suitably controlled such that the desired porosity value of the positive electrode active material layer or negative electrode active material layer is obtained after the press treatment. Specific mode of the press treatment includes for example use of a hot press machine or a calender roll press machine. The press condition temperature pressure or the like is not specifically limited either and it can be referenced from conventional knowledge.

According to the bipolar electrode of the embodiment the energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of the second conductive layer which is arranged on the negative electrode side of the bipolar electrode is suppressed to be lower than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in an electrolyte liquid even when it is increased by the negative electrode potential. As a result penetration and absorption of the lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector are prevented i.e. the lithium ion blocking is exhibited .

As illustrated in electric power generating element of bipolar secondary battery according to the embodiment includes plural bipolar electrodes each having collector positive electrode active material layer electrically connected to one side of collector and negative electrode active material layer electrically connected to the other side of collector . These bipolar electrodes are laminated together with intervened by electrolyte layers thereby constituting electric power generating element . Electrolyte layers have a configuration in which the electrolyte is retained in the planar center of the separator as a base respectively. Bipolar electrodes and electrolyte layers are alternately laminated on each other in such a manner that positive electrode active material layer of either one of bipolar electrodes faces negative electrode active material layer of any other one of bipolar electrodes adjacent to the aforementioned either one of bipolar electrodes with intervened by electrolyte layer . Namely electrolyte layer is arranged to be sandwiched between positive electrode active material layer of the either one of bipolar electrodes and negative electrode active material layer of the any other one of bipolar electrodes adjacent to the aforementioned either one of bipolar electrodes .

These adjacently located positive electrode active material layer electrolyte layer and negative electrode active material layer constitute single unit cell layer . It can be thus said that bipolar secondary battery has a laminated structure of unit cell layers . For the purpose of preventing liquid junction caused by leakage of an electrolyte liquid from electrolyte layer seal member insulating layer is arranged on the peripheries of unit cell layer . Outermost collector which locates at the outermost layer of electric power generating element of the positive electrode side and positive electrode active material layer is formed only on one side of the outermost collector . Outermost collector which locates at the outermost layer of electric power generating element of the negative electrode side and negative electrode active material layer is formed only on one side of the outermost collector

Bipolar secondary battery illustrated in also has a positive electrode collector plate located adjacent to positive electrode side outermost collector and led out from laminate film . A negative electrode collector plate located adjacent to negative electrode side outermost collector and led out from laminate film .

In bipolar secondary battery illustrated in seal member is arranged at outer peripheries of unit cell layers so as to prevent a contact between adjacent collectors in battery and short circuit due to slight variations of ends of unit cell layers in electric power generating element . Such seal member arranged makes it possible that the bipolar secondary battery can securely have long term reliability and safety and achieve high quality.

Herein the number of laminated unit cell layers is adjusted depending on the desired battery voltage. The number of laminated unit cell layer can be decreased as long as bipolar secondary battery can secure a sufficient output even with an extremely thin bipolar secondary battery . In bipolar secondary battery electric power generating element is preferably vacuum sealed in the battery package of laminate film with positive and negative electrode collector plates and led out of laminate film in order to protect electric power generating element from external impact and environmental deterioration during use. The main structural parts of the bipolar secondary battery according to this embodiment will be described in greater detail below.

An electrolyte to form the electrolyte layer is not limited to a specific electrolyte. A liquid electrolyte or a polymer electrolyte such as a polymer gel electrolyte and a polymer solid electrolyte can be suitably used.

The liquid electrolyte contains a lithium salt as a supporting salt dissolved in a solvent. Examples of the solvent include dimethyl carbonate DMC diethyl carbonate DEC dipropyl carbonate DPC ethyl methyl carbonate EMC methyl propionate MP methyl acetate MA methyl formate MF 4 methyl dioxolane 4MeDOL dioxolane DOL 2 methyl tetrahydrofuran 2MeTHF tetrahydrofuran THF dimethoxyethane DME ethylene carbonate EC propylene carbonate PC butyrene carbonate BC and butyrolactone GBL . The solvent may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Examples of the supporting salt lithium salt include although not specifically limited an anionic salt of inorganic acid such as LiPF LiBF LiClO LiAsF LiTaF LiSbF LiAlCl LiBCl LiI LiBr LiCl LiAlCl LiHF and LiSCN and an anionic salt of organic acid such as LiCFSO Li CFSO N lithium bisoxide borate LiBOB and lithium bis perfluoroethylene sulfonylimide LiBETI also described as Li CFSO N. The electrolyte salt may be used either singly or in combination of two or more kinds thereof.

Meanwhile the polymer electrolyte can be classified into a gel electrolyte containing an electrolyte liquid and a polymer solid electrolyte containing no electrolyte liquid. The gel electrolyte has a constitution in which the above liquid electrolyte is injected into a matrix polymer having Li conductivity. Examples of matrix polymer having Li conductivity include a polymer having polyethylene oxide as a main chain or a side chain PEO a polymer having polypropylene oxide as a main chain or a side chain PPO polyethylene glycol PEG polyacrylonitrile PAN polymethacylic acid ester polyfluorovinylidene PVdF copolymer of polyfluorovinylidene and hexafluoropropylene PVdF HFP polyacrylonitrile PAN poly methyl acrylate PMA and poly methyl methacrylate PMMA . A mixture a modified product a derivative a random copolymer an alternating copolymer a graft copolymer and a block copolymer of the above polymers can be also used. Of these it is preferable to use PEO PPO their copolymer PVdF or PVdF HFP. In these matrix polymers an electrolyte salt such as lithium salt can be dissolved well.

When the electrolyte layer is constituted with a liquid electrolyte or a gel electrolyte a separator may be used in an electrolyte layer. Specific examples of the separator include a microporous membrane made of polyolefin such as polyethylene and polypropylene hydrocarbons such as polyfluorovinylidene hexafluoropropylene PVdF HFP or glass fibers.

The polymer solid electrolyte has a constitution that the support salt lithium salt is dissolved in the above matrix polymer without containing an organic solvent as a plasticizer. Thus when the electrolyte layer consists of such polymer solid electrolyte an improvement in the battery reliability can be obtained with no fear of having liquid leakage from the battery.

The matrix polymer of the gel polymer electrolyte or polymer solid electrolyte can exhibit good mechanical strength by formation of a cross linking structure. In order to form such a cross linking structure a polymerizable material such as PEO or PPO to form the polymer electrolyte is polymerized by any polymerization reaction such as thermal polymerization ultraviolet polymerization radiation induced polymerization or electron beam induced polymerization with the use of any appropriate polymerization initiator. The electrolyte may be contained in an active material layer of an electrode.

Seal member i.e. insulating layer has a function of preventing contact between collectors or short circuit at an end of unit cell layer. The seal member can be of any material having insulation property sealing ability against loss of the solid electrolyte material and sealing ability hermeticity against moisture permeation from the outside as well as heat resistance under battery operation temperature conditions. Examples of such a material include a urethane resin an epoxy resin a polyethylene resin a polypropylene resin a polyimide resin and a rubber material. Of these the polyethylene resin and the polypropylene resin are preferred as the material of seal member in terms of corrosion resistance chemical resistance easiness of formation capability of film formation cost efficiency and the like.

A conventionally known metal can case can be used as a battery package. A bag shaped case which is made by a laminate film containing aluminum can be also used to cover electric power generating element. As a laminate film a laminate film having a trilayer structure in which a polypropylene layer an aluminum layer and a nylon layer are laminated in this order can be used but not specifically limited. In the present embodiment a laminate film is preferable as it has high output and cooling characteristics and high applicability to large equipment batteries such as EV and HEV batteries.

According to bipolar secondary battery of the present embodiment even when energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of second conductive layer that is arranged on a negative electrode side of a bipolar electrode increases by negative electrode potential the increased level is suppressed to be lower than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in an electrolyte liquid. As a result penetration and absorption of the lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector are prevented i.e. the lithium ion blocking is exhibited . Because the penetration and absorption of lithium ions into the inner portion of the resin collector are prevented the liquid junction between active material layers or accompanying reduction in battery capacity can be also suppressed.

The working effects of the invention are described in view of the Examples and the Comparative examples given below. However it is evident that the technical scope of the invention is not limited to the following Examples.

A conductive resin film consisting of a mixture in which 10 by mass of Ketjen Black was mixed with 100 by mass of polyimide PI was prepared as the first conductive layer film thickness 25 m .

Meanwhile to 100 by mass of molten ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer ethylene composition 38 mol EVOH 10 by mass of Ketjen Black was added and a conductive resin film film thickness 25 m was produced as the second conductive layer by extrusion method.

The first conductive layer and the second conductive layer that were prepared and produced above were overlaid to each other and subjected to heat sealing at 160 C. for 10 min to produce a collector for a bipolar lithium ion secondary battery having a two layer structure.

Meanwhile a positive electrode active material slurry was prepared by mixing 85 by mass of LiMnOas a positive electrode active material 5 by mass of acetylene black as a conductive auxiliary agent 10 by mass of polyfluorovinylidene PVDF as a binder and an appropriate amount of N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP as a solvent for controlling viscosity of the slurry.

A negative electrode active material slurry was prepared by mixing 90 by mass of hard carbon as a negative electrode active material 5 by mass of acetylene black as a conductive auxiliary agent 10 by mass of PVDF as a binder and an appropriate amount of NMP as a solvent for controlling viscosity of the slurry.

The positive electrode material slurry obtained above was coated on the first conductive layer side surface of the collector manufactured above and dried to form a coated film. To arrange a seal member described below the peripheries of the collector were remained exposed. Then the coated film obtained was pressed to form a positive electrode active material layer thickness 36 m .

Similar to above the negative electrode material slurry obtained above was coated on the second conductive layer side surface of the collector manufactured above and dried to form a coated film. To arrange a seal member described below the peripheries of the collector were remained exposed. Then the coated film obtained was pressed to form a negative electrode active material layer thickness 30 m .

An electrolyte liquid was prepared by mixing 1 mol L LiPFas lithium salt in propylene carbonate.ethylene carbonate 1 1 volume ratio mixture solution with equal volume of each as an electrolyte liquid. Thereafter to 90 by mass of the resulting electrolyte liquid 10 by mass of a polyvinylidene fluoride hexafluoropropylene PVDF HFP copolymer containing 10 mol of hexafluoropropylene comonomer as a host polymer and an appropriate amount of dimethyl carbonate DMC as a viscosity adjusting solvent were added and mixed therein to produce an electrolyte material.

The electrolyte material prepared from above was applied to both surfaces of the positive electrode active material layer and the negative electrode active material layer of the bipolar electrode followed by drying at 100 C. The bipolar electrode was thus completed with the gel electrolyte material impregnated in the active material layers.

The electrolyte material prepared from above was applied to the surface of the positive electrode active material layer of the bipolar electrode followed by drying at 100 C. As a result a gel electrolyte layer was formed. Meanwhile sealing members having width of 12 mm were arranged on exposed portions peripheries on the surface of the first conductive layer side of the collector. This process was repeated to obtain a laminate in which six bipolar electrodes were laminated with intervened by a gel electrolyte layer. Subsequently the resulting laminate was subjected to a hot press treatment 0.2 MPa 80 C. 5 sec in the lamination direction for heat sealing of seal members to seal adjacent bipolar electrodes. As a result an electric power generating element was completed.

A power supply terminal which had an aluminum plate thickness 100 m having a size of 130 mm 80 mm with a portion thereof extending to the outside of the horizontal surface of the electric power generating element was prepared to cover the whole of a reflected surface of the electric power generating element. The electric power generating element was sandwiched between the power supply terminals and then enclosed and vacuum sealed in a battery package of aluminum laminate film. Consequently the entire electric power generating element was pressurized from both sides by atmospheric pressure so as to increase contact between the electric power generating element and the power supply terminal. As a result a laminate structure was obtained.

The above obtained laminate structure was subjected to hot pressing surface pressure 1 kg cm 150 C. and for 1 hour so as to cure the uncured seal member. As a result the bipolar secondary battery was completed.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that the addition amount of Ketjen Black was changed to 5 by mass with respect to 100 by mass of EVOH for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that the first conductive layer having film thickness of 12.5 m was used and the second conductive layer was produced to have film thickness of 37.5 m.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that the first conductive layer having film thickness of 37.5 m was used and the second conductive layer was produced to have film thickness of 12.5 m.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that Nylon 12 PA12 was used instead of EVOH and the temperature for heat sealing was change to 170 C. for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 5 except that the addition amount of Ketjen Black was changed to 7 by mass compared to 100 by mass of PA12 for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that polyphenylene sulfide PPS was used instead of EVOH and the temperature for heat sealing was change to 250 C. for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene copolymer FEP was used instead of EVOH and the temperature for heat sealing was change to 250 C. for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkylvinyl ether copolymer PFA was used instead of EVOH for producing the second conductive layer.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE was used instead of EVOH for producing the second conductive layer. PTFE is a polymer having no imide group and also no polar group.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 9 except that the negative electrode active material layer was formed on the first conductive layer side surface of the collector and the positive electrode active material layer was formed on the second conductive layer side surface of the collector.

A bipolar secondary battery was manufactured in the same manner as the Example 1 except that a conductive resin film film thickness 50 m in which 10 by mass of Ketjen Black was mixed with 100 by mass of polyimide PI was used as a collector. Since the collector used in this comparative example was a monolayer there was no distinction between the positive electrode side and the negative electrode side.

Each of the bipolar secondary batteries produced above was charged to 21.0 V by a constant current CC of 0.5 mA under 25 C. atmosphere and then further charged with a constant voltage CV . The total charge time was 10 hours. The durability of the battery was tested by capacity measurements after 50 test cycles of charging and discharging at a discharge capacity of 1 C. The capacity retention ratio refers to the ratio of the discharge capacity after completing the durability test with respect to the initial discharge capacity. The results are given in the following Table 1.

Each of the collectors used in each example and comparative example described above was tested for volume resistivity according to the following method. First the collector was cut to have a size of 5 cm 8 cm. Surface resistance was measured for nine spots in the surface by using 4 point probe trade name LORESTA EP product number MCP T360 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation . The measurement value was normalized in terms of film thickness and volume resistivity cm was calculated. The volume resistivity was measured in the same manner as above for each of the positive electrode side and the negative electrode side and the ratio of volume resistivity was calculated. The results are given in the following Example 1.

From the results that are given in the Table 1 it was found that the capacity retention ratio is significantly improved in every Examples the conductive layer resin layer in which a polar resin containing no imide group was used was arranged on the negative electrode side compared to the Comparative examples. The mechanism for exhibition of the effects by having the constitution above is considered to be as follows. Specifically even when energy level of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO of the conductive layer increases by negative electrode potential the increased level is suppressed to be lower than the oxidation reduction potential of lithium ions in an electrolyte liquid. As a result penetration and absorption of the lithium ions into the inner portion of a resin collector are prevented then reduction in capacity is suppressed.

About the film thickness ratio of the positive electrode side and the negative electrode side it was found from the results of the Example 1 3 and 4 that smaller film thickness ratio i.e. the thicker second conductive layer compared to the first conductive layer can more significantly suppress the reduction in capacity retention ratio. This is believed that by increasing the thickness of the second conductive layer the capability of lithium ion blocking is further improved. In addition it was also shown from the results of the Examples 1 and 2 or the Examples 5 and 6 that when the volume resistivity of the first conductive layer was maintained at constant level the smaller volume resistivity of the second conductive layer could suppress more efficiently the reduction in capacity retention ratio.

