---

title: Method of providing data access in an industrial automation system, computer program product and industrial automation system
abstract: In an industrial automation system comprising a plurality of industrial control devices connected to an industrial communication network, control and/or supervision functions of the industrial automation system are provided by services implemented by computer-based objects in industrial control devices. A computer-based object is assigned a first qualifier enabling the computer-based object to be accessed and/or modified during configuration of the respective service and/or a second qualifier enabling the computer-based object to be accessed and/or modified during runtime of the respective service. Upon a request for access to a computer-based object by a service consumer, the service consumer's operational state is determined. Depending on a set first and/or second qualifier of a computer-based object and depending on a determined operational state of a service consumer, access to the computer-based object is granted to the service consumer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316222&OS=08316222&RS=08316222
owner: Siemens AG
number: 08316222
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100224
---
The present invention relates to a method of providing data access in an industrial automation system a computer program product and to an industrial automation system.

Due to a steadily increasing impact of information technology on industrial automation systems methods of safeguarding components of an industrial automation system such as monitoring devices open loop and closed loop control devices sensors and actuators against unauthorised access are becoming a crucial factor. Compared to other fields of technology data integrity is extremely important for a stable and reliable operation of industrial automation systems. Especially when collecting evaluating and transmitting measured data and control commands care has to be taken to ensure that measured data and control commands are transmitted completely and without any manipulation. Therefore intentional and unintentional modifications of control messages in industrial automation systems are to be avoided especially in system or component failure scenarios.

Moreover communication in industrial automations systems is characterised by a large amount of relatively short messages. This requires high efforts to ensure data integrity and consistent system operation. Further efforts result from real time requirements in industrial automation systems when collecting and processing measured data and control messages pertaining to time critical technical processes e.g. in factory or building automation.

Industrial automation systems that are based on service oriented architectures often require the application of fine granular and high sophisticated access control policies. Usually such access control policies do not just have to be applied to users in an industrial automation system but also to services provided in industrial automation systems increasing the complexity of defining and managing access control policies. Usually additional measures must be taken to avoid negative side effects on system performance.

Additionally in many scenarios a clear separation of configuration data and runtime data is required to realize consistent and safety relevant access in an industrial automation system. In accordance with prior known solutions stable data has been compiled and thereby made static. Alternatively configuration data has been pre defined at design time. Therefore configuration data and runtime data has been stored separately in different data repositories. Accordingly access control in conventional systems has been made by convention or programming. This usually results in making access control less flexible with regard to modifying access control policies and more error prone.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an efficient method of providing data access in an industrial automation system enabling consistent and scalable access control.

This and other objects and advantages are achieved in accordance with the invention by a method of providing data access in an industrial automation system comprising a plurality of industrial control devices connected to an industrial communication network. Control and or supervisory functions of the industrial automation system are provided by services that are implemented by computer based objects in industrial control devices. Computer based object can comprise operation systems control or application programs services functions procedures or features provided by operation systems control or application programs and access rights for accessing control and peripheral devices as well as data stored on a storage medium. Further a computer based object is assigned a first qualifier enabling the computer based object to be accessed and or modified during configuration of the respective service and or a second qualifier enabling the computer based object to be accessed and or modified during runtime of the respective service. The first and or second qualifier may be set upon instantiation of the computer based object. Upon a request for access on a computer based object by a service consumer the service consumer s operational state is determined. Depending on a set first and or second qualifier of a computer based object and depending to a determined operational state of a service consumer access to the computer based object is granted to the service consumer.

In an embodiment of the present invention the service consumer s operational state is characterized by the service consumer s application context. The application context may be set explicitly or implicitly. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the application context is either configuration or dynamic modification.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention read and write access to a computer based object is granted if the computer based object is assigned a first qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is configuration. Preferably read and write access to a computer based object is granted if the computer based object is assigned a second qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is dynamic modification. Moreover only read access to a computer based object may be granted if the computer based object is assigned a first qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is dynamic modification or if the computer based object is assigned a second qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is configuration.

In accordance with a still further embodiment of the present invention the first and or second qualifier is inherited from a base class. If the computer based object is an attribute of an object instance the first and or second qualifier may be inherited from the object instance. This may apply to every attribute of the object instance. Furthermore the first and or second qualifier may be inherited from an object class by every object instance belonging to the object class.

In accordance with a yet further preferred embodiment of the present invention a computer based object is a single class object whose components are stored separately in different storage locations depending on their association with a first or second qualifier. Here components associated with a first qualifier may be stored in a storage location for persistent data whereas components associated with a second qualifier may be stored in a storage location for volatile data.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention services of the industrial automation system are provided within a service oriented architecture. A service oriented architecture provides methods for systems integration and enables structuring large applications as an ad hoc collection of smaller modules which implement interoperable services. Service orientation aims at a rather loose coupling of services with operating systems programming languages and other technologies which underlie applications. Besides service orientation further aims at making coupled services usable by authorised users or services. Moreover service oriented architectures enable application integration by hiding complexity of individual components of an industrial automation system behind standardised interfaces. As a result a secure and flexible provisioning of control and monitoring functionality is provided in industrial automation systems thereby improving total system quality.

In accordance with a still further embodiment of the present invention the industrial automation system is a manufacturing industrial process or building automation system. Further the industrial control devices may be programmable.

A further aspect of the present invention relates to a computer program product which is loadable into a random access memory of a computer and comprising computer program code means causing the computer to execute the above mentioned steps. Yet another aspect of the present invention relates to an industrial automation system comprising a plurality of industrial control devices for providing control and or supervision functions of the industrial automation system by means of services implemented by computer based objects. The control devices are connected to an industrial communication network. Moreover the industrial automation system comprises means of executing above mentioned steps.

Other objects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention. It should be further understood that the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and that unless otherwise indicated they are merely intended to conceptually illustrate the structures and procedures described herein.

The industrial automation system depicted in comprises an engineering system a client computer and a plurality of programmable industrial control devices which are connected to an industrial communication network . The industrial control devices provide control and supervision functions as local services of the industrial automation system for managing industrial processes. Industrial processes include e.g. manufacturing production power generation fabrication and refining and may run in continuous batch repetitive or discrete modes.

The engineering system is configured to plan and execute configuration maintenance commissioning and documentation tasks within the industrial automation system. Particularly the engineering system provides configuration data to the industrial control devices . The configuration data comprises information on allocation of local services to industrial control devices and information on dependencies between local services.

The client computer and the industrial control devices each comprise at least a processor for executing program code and a storage device for persistently storing program code application data and user data. The storage device of the client computer comprises program code for providing a client application and program code for implementing a client application programming interface. In accordance with the presently contemplated embodiment the client application implements a supervisory system for presenting industrial process data to a human operator. Thus the human operator is enabled to monitor and control the underlying industrial process. Further the supervisory system aggregates and processes data on the industrial process collected by sensors connected to the industrial control devices and sends process control commands to actuators coupled to the underlying industrial process and associated with the industrial control devices .

The storage device of the industrial control device comprises program code for providing a local service and program code for implementing a service interface interacting with the client application programming interface. In accordance with the presently contemplated embodiment the local service serves to control and monitor sensors and actuators as peripheral devices connected to the industrial control device . Sensors and actuators may also be combined in a device such as a robot. Moreover an industrial control device may be designed and configured to monitor and control the volumetric current pressure or temperature of a streaming liquid in an industrial process. Here a supervisory system allows a human operator to change set points for the streaming liquid and to set alarm thresholds for monitoring and managing critical events.

The program code is loadable into a random access memory of the client computer and the industrial control device respectively. Then the program code can be executed by the processors to cause the executing of at least above mentioned steps.

Turning to the flow chart illustrated in in an industrial automation system comprising a plurality of industrial control devices connected to an industrial communication network control and supervision functions are provided by services implemented by computer based objects in industrial control devices step . If a computer based object to be accessed in the industrial control system constitutes configuration data step then a first qualifier is assigned to the computer based object enabling the computer based object to be accessed and modified during configuration of the respective service step . Otherwise if the computer based object constitutes runtime data step then a second qualifier is assigned to the computer based object enabling the computer based object to be accessed and modified during runtime of the respective service step .

Upon a request for access on the computer based object by a service consumer step the service consumer s operational state is determined . In the present embodiment the operational state is reflected by the service consumer s application context which is either configuration or dynamic modification.

Depending on whether the first or second qualifier is set and depending on the context of the service consumer access to the computer based object is granted to the service consumer or denied step .

The following table shows possible modes of access on the computer based object in selected scenarios 

In accordance with the above table read and write access to the computer based object is granted if the computer based object is assigned a first qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is configuration. Further read and write access to the computer based object is granted if the computer based object is assigned a second qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is dynamic modification. In contrast read only access to the computer based object is granted if the computer based object is assigned a first qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is dynamic modification. This also applies if the computer based object is assigned a second qualifier and the application context of the service consumer is configuration.

A first qualifier should be assigned to a computer based object representing data that should only be allowed to be changed by configuration. In contrast a second qualifier should be assigned to a computer based object representing slow changing values in an industrial automation system that should not be overridden by configuration. Moreover both qualifiers may be assigned if a computer based object represents data that originates from configuration and can be changed during runtime especially if the data change rate is very slow.

Scope and applicability of the present invention are not limited to the described embodiments of the present invention. Modifications of the present invention without departing from its scope are known to one skilled in the art.

Thus while there are shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of the illustrated apparatus and in its operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice.

