---

title: Single-event upset immune static random access memory cell circuit
abstract: A circuit and method are provided in which a six-transistor (6-T) SRAM memory cell is hardened to single-event upsets by adding isolation-field effect transistors (“iso-fets”) connected between the reference voltage Vdd and the field-effect transistors (“fets”) respectively corresponding to first and second inverters of the memory cell. According to certain embodiments, the control gates of first and second P-iso-fets are respectively tied to the control gates of first and second pull-up P-fets. According to certain embodiments, first and second N-iso-fets are connected between the output nodes of the memory cell and the pull-down N-fets respectively corresponding to the first and second inverters. The control gates of the first and second N-iso-fets are respectively tied to the control gates of the first and second pull-down N-fets. Again according to certain embodiments, one or more of the iso-fets are physically removed from the proximity of other transistors which comprise the memory cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08036023&OS=08036023&RS=08036023
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08036023
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101007
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 141 900 filed Jun. 18 2008 which claims priority from provisional patent application No. 60 936 023 filed Jun. 18 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DTRA 01 03 D 0007 0001 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to integrated circuits and more specifically to integrated circuits that operate in environments where radiation induced logic errors may occur.

Integrated circuits are operated in environments where radiation induced logic errors may occur such as in outer space. In such environments the integrated circuit is required to maintain data integrity during a single event upset SEU . A single event upset is a radiation induced error in the logic state of a signal within the integrated circuit. Such a single event upset may be the result of a collision between a high energy proton or a heavy ion cosmic ray and the semiconductor material that forms the integrated circuit. The interaction of these charged particles or heavy ions with metal oxide semiconductor MOS static random access memory SRAM cells results in low linear energy transfer LET from the charged particle to the SRAM cells.

The basic operation of the SRAM cell is to store electronic information in the form of 1 s and 0 s. In space based electronics where cosmic rays exist and bombard electronics continuously LET from a heavy ion s interaction with an SRAM cell can flip change the state of that cell s stored information from a 0 to a 1 or a 1 to a 0 . This interaction corrupts stored information and can lead to incorrect operation of associated circuitry. To prevent single event upsets from causing erroneous operation of an integrated circuit containing SRAM cells circuitry within the integrated circuit must be designed to withstand such upsets.

A simple six transistor SRAM cell is shown in . A bit in the SRAM cell is stored through four transistors that together form two cross coupled inverters and disposed between reference voltages VDD and GND. Inverter comprises P type field effect transistor P fet and N type field effect transistor N fet while inverter comprises P fet and N fet . The control gates of transistors and are commonly connected at first output node Q and the control gates of transistors and are commonly connected at second output node Qbar. The storage cell has two stable states which are respectively used to denote a logical 0 and a logical 1.

Two additional access transistors and serve to control the access to data stored on the output nodes Q Qbar during read and write operations. Upon charging of a word line WL coupled to the gates of these access transistors and the access transistors turn ON and transfer data stored on the output nodes Q Qbar onto the bitlines BLT and BLC.

In operation to access data stored in the SRAM cell the wordline WL is activated to turn ON the access transistors and . The cell thereafter transfers the data stored in the cell in the form of the voltages on the output nodes Q Qbar onto the bitlines BLT BLC during a read operation. During a write operation voltages are applied on the bitlines BLT BLC corresponding to the data to the stored in the cell to thereby drive the voltages on the nodes Q Qbar to the desired voltages. In the SRAM cell even when turned OFF the transistor may be in saturation with Vdd applied across its source and drain which increases the LET sensitivity of the memory cell and concomitantly increases the likelihood of a single event upset causing an error flipping the state of the cell as described in further detail with respect to below.

To examine the scenario resulting from an SEU impact of SRAM memory cell assume that the bit stored in cell is a logical 1 meaning output node Q is at approximately Vdd and output node Qbar at approximately ground. N fet and P fet are consequently both off while N fet is ON and pulling down node Qbar just as P fet is pulling up output node Q. Although N fet is off it is in saturation mode due to the voltage across its drain coupled to node Q and its source connected to ground. Similarly P fet is off but also in saturation mode since a voltage of approximately Vdd is across its source and drain.

A need still exists therefore for improved ways to decrease the low linear energy transfer LET sensitivity of unit memory cell used in static random access memory SRAM design. In particular there is a need to decrease LET sensitivity where the application of the SRAM technology is intended for harsh radiation environments such as space or other high radiation environments.

According to certain embodiments of the present invention a circuit and method are provided in which a six transistor 6 T SRAM memory cell is hardened to single event upsets by adding isolation field effect transistors iso fets connected between the reference voltage Vdd and the field effect transistors fets respectively corresponding to first and second inverters of the memory cell. According to certain embodiments the control gates of first and second P iso fets are respectively tied to the control gates of first and second pull up P fets. According to certain embodiments first and second N iso fets are connected between the output nodes of the memory cell and the pull down N fets respectively corresponding to the first and second inverters. The control gates of the first and second N iso fets are respectively tied to the control gates of the first and second pull down N fets. Again according to certain embodiments one or more of the iso fets are physically removed from the proximity of other transistors which comprise the memory cell.

In the following description certain details are set forth in conjunction with the described embodiments of the present invention to provide a sufficient understanding of the invention. One skilled in the art will appreciate however that the invention may be practiced without these particular details. Furthermore one skilled in the art will appreciate that the example embodiments described below do not limit the scope of the present invention and will also understand that various modifications equivalents and combinations of the disclosed embodiments and components of such embodiments are within the scope of the present invention. Embodiments including fewer than all the components of any of the respective described embodiments may also be within the scope of the present invention although not expressly described in detail below. Finally the operation of well known components and or processes has not been shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

To examine the operation of memory cell again assume that the cell stores a logical 1 such that output node Q is at a high voltage Vdd while the complementary node Qbar is at a low voltage ground . Because node Q is high P iso fet and P fet are both OFF and N fet is ON. Similarly the low logic state of Qbar keeps P iso fet and P fet turned ON leaving N fet off. Note that because P iso fet is off P fet is not in saturation mode i.e. Vdd across the source and drain while the P fet is turned OFF .

Now imagine that a high energy heavy ion impacts the memory cell . If the ion impacts P iso fet the transistor may very well turn ON. This allows Vdd to charge the source node of pull up P fet but does not result in turning ON pull up P fet it merely places P fet in saturation mode temporarily. P iso fet is in saturation mode but cannot singlehandedly pull up output node Qbar if turned ON through the impact of such an ion. After P iso fet recovers from the SEU impact it returns to its OFF state and also allows P fet to be restored to non saturation mode. If the heavy ion instead impacts pull up P fet directly then output node Qbar is again protected from erroneously turning ON. This is true because even if P fet turns ON in response to the impact of the heavy ion the P iso fet remains OFF and therefore provides no voltage the source node of pull up P fet . Thus the P fet cannot turn ON from the impact of the heavy ion and thus a SEU of the memory cell is prevented.

In the case in which memory cell stores a logical 0 the output node Q is at approximately ground i.e. a low logic state and complementary output node Qbar at approximately Vdd i.e. a high logic state . P iso fet and pull up P fet are both OFF as is pull down N fet but N fet is in saturation mode i.e. Vdd across source and drain while turned OFF . P iso fet by isolating P fet from reference voltage Vdd prevents P fet from being in saturation mode by ensuring that its source node is isolated from Vdd. Thus if heavy ion or other particle impacts either P iso fet or pull up P fet it will not result in the erroneous charging of output node Q as analogously discussed above with respect to transistors and when memory cell stores a logical 1.

The inclusion of pull up transistors and may have a negative effect on the responsiveness of the memory cell meaning the speed at which data may be written to the memory cell. This speed may be reduced in comparison to the SRAM memory cell from for example. However memory cell is advantageously hardened to SEU events through the inclusion of the P iso fets . This is often more important than speed when contemplating memory cells operating in high radiation environments such as outer space.

In operation the pull up portion of memory cell operates identically to that of memory cell in . However the pull down portion is now afforded similar protection from SEUs. Assuming that memory cell stores a logical 1 output node Q is charged to approximately Vdd i.e. a voltage corresponding to a high logic state and complementary output node Qbar is at approximately ground i.e. a voltage corresponding to a low logic state . Consequently both P iso fet and pull up P fet are off as are N iso fet and pull down N fet . Because of the isolation from Vdd or output node Q provided by respectively P iso fet and N iso fet neither pull up transistor nor pull down transistor are in saturation mode.

In this situation if heavy ion or other particle impacts N iso fet transistor with sufficient energy the extra charge creation can turn the transistor N. As analogously discussed above with respect to isolation transistors and of however this will not erroneously change the state of output node Q and therefore the value stored in memory cell remains unchanged. Instead this situation will simply charge the source node of N fet responsive to the transistor turning ON with the voltage on the source node of N fet simply allowing that transistor to reach saturation mode temporarily. If on the other hand a heavy ion or other particle impacts pull down N fet transistor directly this transistor will not turn ON because it was not in saturation mode to begin with. Instead the excess charge created by the SEU will simply recombine over the recovery time of the cell.

As discussed above with respect to memory cell and it is possible to add additional circuit elements in order to slow the cell write time and lengthen the cell recovery time. For example the resistors and may be similarly connected within the memory cell respectively between the gates of inverters and and output nodes Q and Qbar. The capacitor configurations described above with respect to memory cell are also usable within the embodiment depicted in . Again one skilled in the art will understand that many combinations of these elements may be used including each alone.

The described operation of the embodiments depicted in has assumed that a given SEU event strikes an iso fet or its corresponding pull up or pull down transistor but not both. Unfortunately this need not always be the case. Due to the size of some heavy ion particles and the dimensions of SRAM cells in modern manufacturing it is possible for a single SEU event i.e. high energy ion to impact multiple adjacent transistors. Such a multiple transistor impact could result in a soft error despite the existence of the iso fets. For example if the memory cell stores a logic 1 i.e. node Q is high and node Qbar is low and both N iso fet and N fet are impacted by a high energy ion both transistors and could turn ON driving the node Q low and flipping the state of the cell i.e. node Q low and node Qbar high .

To examine this eventuality again assume that memory cell stores a logical 1. Output node Q is in its high logic state complementary output node Qbar is in its low logic state and both N iso fet transistor and corresponding pull down N fet transistor are off non conducting . Now assume that a large heavy ion strikes the memory cell in an area large enough to encompass both adjacent transistors and . N iso fet is already in saturation mode so the impact turns the transistor N as discussed earlier. Pull down N fet transistor is OFF and ordinarily the impact of the SEU would only result in a brief excess charge deposition in the channel region of the transistor insufficient to turn it ON. However because the SEU impact also turns ON N iso fet isolation node is charged and so is the source node of N fet transistor placing N fet in saturation mode. If the turning ON of N iso fet and subsequent charging of isolation node coincides with the excess charge deposition in the channel region of N fet then output node Q may very well be pulled down and the state of memory cell flipped causing a soft error.

Advantageously certain embodiments of the present invention reduce the likelihood of this eventuality by physically separating the iso fets from their corresponding pull up or pull down transistors. shows a top view of the physical layout of the SRAM memory cell according to another embodiment of the present invention. Memory cell is disposed in a substrate . The iso fet transistors and are placed at a significant distance from their respective pull up and pull down transistors . A P iso fet may be disposed in the same N well as its corresponding P fet or another N well altogether. Similarly an N iso fet and its corresponding N fet transistor may share a P well or be disposed in different P wells. In this way the components of the given memory are interleaved with the components of other memory cells to provide physical separation between isolation transistors and the associated pull up or pull down transistors to which these isolation transistors are electrically connected. Due to this interleaving the impact of a heavy ion at the physical location of the one of these transistors does not affect the other one of the transistors so that at least one of the transistors remains OFF and prevents and SEU event from occurring. Test results indicate that in certain embodiments a distance of 2 m to 5 m between an iso fet and its corresponding pull up or pull down transistor may be most effective. The likelihood of an SEU impact disturbing both transistors when they are so separated is advantageously reduced. In certain embodiments multiple interleaved memory cells are disposed in a substrate such that a given radius may circumscribe the pull up and pull down transistors from one memory cell and one or more iso fet transistors from a plurality of other memory cells.

It is to be understood that even though various embodiments and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description the above disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail and yet remain within the broad principles of the invention. For example components described above may be implemented using technologies other than MOS technology such as bipolar or gallium arsenide technologies. Therefore the present invention is to be limited only by the appended claims.

