---

title: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro-migration awareness
abstract: Disclosed are methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro-migration awareness. Some embodiments perform schematic level simulation(s) to determine electrical characteristics, identifies physical parasitics of a layout component, determines the electrical or physical characteristics associated to electro-migration analysis on the component, and determines whether the component meets EM related constraint(s) while implementing the physical design of the electronic circuit in some embodiments. Some embodiments further determine adjustment(s) to the component or related data where the EM related constraints are not met and/or and present the adjustment(s) in the form of hints. Various data and information, such as currents in various forms or voltages, are passed between various schematic level tools and physical level tools.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330222&OS=09330222&RS=09330222
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 09330222
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 398 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 412 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 404 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 406 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH IR DROP AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 407 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS and U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 410 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 721 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 732 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire disclosures of the above applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties in the instant Application.

The recent advances in very deep sub micron VDSM integrated circuits ICs have brought new challenges in the physical design methodology process of integrated systems. In modern electronic circuits geometries become smaller clock frequencies increase and on chip interconnections gain increased importance in the prediction of performance. Nonetheless it has been found that from 0.13 m and below ICs are more susceptible to wear out over time electro migration or EM due to current densities which requires some degree of built in fault tolerance and a careful design planning. Meanwhile increased power demanded on ever shrunk chip size causes higher current densities within the power routing. Uni directional current flow in analog designs also requires tracking of current densities in signal nets as well. Higher currents and or higher operating temperatures induce more significant EM effects in which metal lines begin to wear out during a chip s lifetime. Such concerns have led to manufacturers creating current density limits for ICs and requiring designers to adhere to predefined current density limits.

The electro migration problem in designing an electronic circuit is that there exist many unknowns until the very end of the design cycle in a conventional approach. Nevertheless decisions about the structure size and layout of many circuit component e.g. the power grid have to be made at very early stages when a large part of the chip design has not even begun. In addition as VLSI technology scales interconnects are becoming the dominant factor determining system performance and power dissipation. Interconnect reliability due to electro migration is fast becoming a serious design issue particularly for long signal lines. In fact it has been recently shown that interconnect Joule heating in advanced technology nodes can strongly impact the magnitude of the maximum temperature of the global lines despite negligible changes in chip power density which will in turn strongly affect the electro migration lifetime of the interconnect. In analog designs uni directional current flow and smaller wire geometries create EM concerns for the signal nets as well.

Unfortunately most conventional electronic circuit design tools focus on post layout verification of interconnect when the entire chip design is complete and detailed information about the parasitics of the physical designs and the currents drawn by the transistors are known. Electro migration problems revealed at this stage are usually very difficult or expensive to fix so the conventional methodologies help to design an initial electronic design and refine it iteratively at various design stages. In other words the conventional circuit synthesis step is followed by layout synthesis and each step is carried out independent of the other. This is again followed by a physical or formal verification step to check whether the desired performance goals have been achieved after layout generation and extraction. These steps are carried out iteratively in such conventional approaches till the desired performance goals are met.

The behavior of analog circuits is even more sensitive to layout induced parasitics and thus electro migration problems due to the unidirectional current flows in various circuit components. Parasitics not only influence the circuit performance but may often render it non functional.

Thus there exists a need for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness early in the design stage.

What is needed is a method a system and a computer program product for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness. In various embodiments the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of a physical design of the electronic circuit. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the component in the physical design. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic or a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design. In these embodiments the electrical parasitic and the device parameter are collectively referred to as electrical parasitic or simply parasitic .

The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with electrical parasitics and the physical data and for displaying the one or more electrical characteristics on a display apparatus.

In some embodiments the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may optionally comprise the process or module for identifying or determining one or more electro migration related constraints that are associated with one or more parameters e.g. electrical parameters etc. The method or the system may also optionally comprise the process or module for ensuring correctness of the physical data and or other data that are related to the one or more electro migration related constraints in some embodiments.

In some embodiments where at least one of the one or more electro migration related constraints is not met the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for determining adjustments for the physical data the net s and or the device s and or providing hint s to correct the physical data. Some embodiments may further comprise the process or module for checking to ensuring that the adjustments for the physical data do not violate or cause conflict with other design rules constraints or other issues etc. Some embodiments may further comprise automatic or assisted application of the adjustments to fix or repair the physical data. More description of the aforementioned processes or modules will be further described in greater details in the subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to a methods systems and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. Other objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

Various embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and the examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. Where certain elements of the present invention may be partially or fully implemented using known components or methods or processes only those portions of such known components or methods or processes that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and the detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components or methods or processes will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further various embodiments of the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein by way of illustration.

Referring to which illustrates a top level diagram for implementing various embodiments of the methods or systems for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component hereinafter a component collectively of an electronic circuit physical design in various embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or hardware module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with physical data at . In one or more embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may comprise the process or hardware module for characterizing the electrical characteristics that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and the physical data at . In some embodiments a user may invoke or utilize the methods or the systems described herein via a terminal or a user interface .

In these embodiments the method or the system needs only a partial layout that comprises merely one component such as an interconnect wire segment a via or a via cluster to perform its intended functions of implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness. In other words some embodiments as described herein do not require a complete physical layout that have gone through the complete placement global routing and detail routing stages. That is the method and system provide the designers with the ability to implement the electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness from the first component the first device or the first net in the physical design without going through costly iterations between the physical design and the post layout verification design flows.

For example even if a physical design contains only one segment of an interconnect and the remainder of the physical design has not been completed yet the method or the system may still determine whether this particular interconnect segment meets one or more EM related constraints and whether and what kind of adjustments need to be made to the design to ensure the compliance of the one or more EM related constraints.

In some embodiments the action of determining whether the segment meets the EM related constraints and subsequent adjustment s occurs before one or more subsequent physical design objects are created. In some embodiments the act of determining is done before the created or modified physical design object is stored in a database. In some embodiments an adjustment comprises creation of a new route or a segment thereof or modification of an existing route or a segment thereof. In some embodiments an adjustment comprises placement of a component in a physical design of an electronic circuit design.

In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics associated with physical data may be done with a two stage approach. This process begins with the selection a particular net or partial net. In the first stage the process identifies where along that net that a geometric description should be created. The geometric descriptions may include wire widths and spacings conductor and ILD inter layer dielectrics thicknesses or thickness of barrier materials. A common description may be created and provided via an API application programming interface. 

The second stage may include one or more components that may translate transform convert or map hereinafter map the geometric description to an equivalent parasitic value such as a resistance capacitance or inductance. This translation transformation conversion or mapping hereinafter mapping may be done with mathematical algorithms or models that are often referred to as parasitic extraction. The models may be created through the use of semi empirical methods that combine models or knowledge of the underlying physics with data provided by various solver s simulator s or a combination thereof. In some cases the mapping for capacitance may also be done with a solver.

In some embodiments the second stage may use parasitic extraction for some nets and a field solver for other nets. In some embodiments the second stage may use a combination of parasitic extraction for for example resistance s and a field solver for for example capacitance s on the same net. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics may be performed with extraction tools that map geometric dimensions and patterns to corresponding parasitics such as R L and C. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics includes the use of field solvers such as but not limited to one or more EM field solvers that map geometric dimensions and patterns to capacitance s .

Referring to which illustrates a top level diagram for implementing various embodiments of the methods or systems for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a component of an electronic circuit physical design at in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or hardware module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component at .

In addition the method or the system may further comprise the process or hardware module for characterizing the electrical characteristics that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and the physical data of the component at . Moreover the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or hardware module for displaying the electrical characteristics on a display apparatus or storing either persistently or temporarily the electrical characteristics in a non transitory computer accessible storage medium at . In some embodiments a user may invoke or utilize the methods or the systems described herein via a terminal or a user interface .

In some embodiments the physical data may be identified determined or updated by performing an electrically aware design extraction EAD extraction . More details about the EAD extraction are described in the U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 732 which is entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments the physical data may be related to a net which comprises one or more wires or interconnects connecting various other components together in an electronic circuit design. In some embodiment the physical data may be related to a single component in the physical design e.g. a layout of the electronic circuit. For example the method or the system may be applied to determine whether an interconnect segment complies with one or more electro migration related constraints. In this example the physical data may comprise for example the width the length the cross sectional area along the segment overlap of a metal object and via object etc. In some embodiments the physical data may be related to a device which comprises a component that comprises a source and a drain. A device may comprise for example a field effect transistor. In this example the physical data may comprise the description of physical device layers and geometric descriptions that define the gate source and drain regions. In various embodiments the physical data may further comprise the material and its associated physical e.g. physical or electrical attributes. In various embodiments the method or system may characterize shapes associated with a net and need to determine connectivity to identify one net from another.

In various embodiments the characterization of parasitics such as R L or C for shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristics such as currents voltages or current densities occur as a net or shape that is part of a net is created or modified. This characterization may occur incrementally as each net is created or modified and may occur while there is only a partial layout. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to those terminals are created or modified.

For example the physical data for a wire segment may comprise the material e.g. Copper Aluminum or Tungsten one or more physical attributes such as the thermal conductivity surface boundary activation energy etc. and or one or more electrical attributes such as the electrical conductance Blech distance or electrical resistivity.

In some embodiments the process for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of an electronic circuit physical design may be invoked from within a physical design tool or flow such as a layout editor while the designer is implementing or modifying the physical design of the electronic circuit rather than from a post layout verification tool or flow. In some embodiments device recognition and connectivity tasks are performed to able to map electrical characteristics such as current at a given terminal with the proper net s attached to that terminal. In some embodiments connectivity may be directed to traverse the nets hierarchically and stop on levels determined by the user.

In some embodiments the drawn geometries of the physical design objects may be combined with manufacturing models to estimate manufactured geometries for those objects or statistical distributions associated with the object. In this approach the as manufactured geometries may be used with the parasitic models to provide a more accurate estimate of the electrical parasitics R L or C.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data . In some embodiments the one or more electrical parasitics comprise resistance self or coupled inductance or capacitance that is associated with the physical data. In the previous example of an interconnect segment in a physical design the method or the system may characterize the resistance of this particular interconnect segment by using the electrical resistivity the length of the segment and the cross sectional area along the segment. In some embodiments the system monitors and tracks the relevant physical data associated with the creation or change to the design for example the creation of a net or the widening of a wire segment in a net. Resistance and capacitance models may be applied automatically to compute the parasitic data. Thus parasitics may be generated interactively as physical design objects have been or are being created or modified. The set of partial design objects including a set of one or more objects in the electronic circuit design that is interactively analyzed may form a partial layout. The data is stored for use with subsequent electrical analysis steps and may additionally be displayed in parasitic form.

In various embodiments the parasitic data and a linear solver may be used to solve for for example currents and voltages associated with the physical data. For example the linear solver and parasitic data may be used to solve for all the currents distributed throughout one or more signal nets. In this approach the non linear devices that are defined as part of a schematic design are generally solved using a circuit simulator. Electrical parameters for example currents or voltages associated with the device terminals are stored and provided to the solver. The remaining interconnect portion of the circuit created during layout may be solved as linear system using direct methods for example Cholesky based or iterative for example Conjugate Gradient techniques. For example a linear system could be formed from the following equation 

where G is the matrix of conductance values v is the vector of node voltages and i is the vector of independent sources is solved using a linear solver employing direct or indirect methods. For example Cholesky factorization may be used to separate the conductance matrix into a product of lower and upper triangular matrices and then forward and back substitution may be used to solve for the voltages throughout the network.

In the aforementioned approaches the device related simulation may be done during the schematic creation stage prior to physical design and may simply be stored for use during physical design. For example the interconnect routing creates a net that connects a series of device terminals through multiple segments that direct the current from one or more terminals to one or more other terminals. The terminal currents define the current coming into and out of a particular net for example but not limited to a signal net in some embodiments. A solver may be used to estimate the currents and voltages through the physical data e.g. wire segment s via s or via cluster s .

The solver may be part of the physical design tool software or flow or work from the same physical design database to enable more interactive feedback as the physical design is created or modified. The currents through each section of the net may be combined with the geometry of the wire for example width or via to compute a current density. In some embodiments where there are 2N current vectors the solver using the Cholesky method factors the conductance matrix once and simply does forward and backward solves on each of the 2N current vectors. For cases where multiple static simulation vectors are to be analyzed this approach provides a faster solution because the parasitics that form the conductance matrix are constant for a given set of physical data or layout configuration.

In some embodiments the aforementioned method of a single conductance decomposition followed by forward and backward substitution may be used to produce a vector of currents where each vector element represents a point in time associated with each sample from the current waveform. For example this method may be used to compute rms root mean square values using the current waveforms produced by the linear solver for each part of the net. More details about the single conductance decomposition followed by forward and backward substitution in these embodiments are further provided in the description of .

Some other embodiments use the electrical parasitics associated with physical design to re simulate the design. In these embodiments the electrical parasitics such as the resistance and capacitance may need to be mapped to the schematic representation or stitched into the schematic. The parasitics may also be reduced a form that allows for faster simulation in some embodiments and retain additional capacitance values for nets where more simulation accuracy is desired. For example the parasitics for one set of nets may have full sets of coupling capacitance values between nodes one set may have only net to net coupling capacitances and other sets may only have the total cap and lump all coupling caps to ground. For example the parasitics such as resistance may be reduced when more than one resistors appear in series. The simulation parameters such as temperature are matched with that used for extraction. The simulator provides parasitic aware set of voltages and currents that are used for EM checking in subsequent processes. One embodiment is where resimulation of the layout parasitics is done in conjunction with EM checking and vice versa so that any impact of the interconnect is addressed before the layout is completed.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and physical data at of . In some embodiments the one or more electrical characteristics comprise voltage currents or current densities that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics or the physical data.

In various embodiments characterization of the electrical characteristics associated with the electrical parasitics may be necessary or desired in order to determine the current and voltage characteristics of the created or modified physical data such as interconnect wires via or via clusters. The interconnect structures may be part of signal or power nets. This characterization is not limited to interconnect in that physical design creation and modification of devices may impact device parasitics such as gate to contact capacitance or gate related fringe capacitance. Also one device in the schematic may be represented as multiple devices e.g. multi fingered devices where a single terminal current on the schematic is actually multiple currents to each finger. In this case the schematic and layout representations may require a mapping to use the layout based parasitic data.

As a prelude for the electro migration analysis that will be described in further details below the EM limits provided by foundries are often tied to particular types of current for example peak average DC or RMS current densities. Some embodiments may use the solved current information for a given wire segment and use the wire width to get a density value that may be compared with the limit. Some embodiments may use the solved current information and multiply the current density limit by the wire width to produce a maximum current for a given wire width and then compare that value against the solved currents. Some embodiments as described herein may evaluate one or more of these currents correctly by matching the set of currents with the correct limits. For EM limits such as the peak current the simulation produced current waveforms may need to be post processed to determine the peak values for each device terminal in some embodiments. There may be different ways to do this. In one embodiment the process flow invokes a method to store the maximum current at each terminal into a single vector of maximum currents. Because the peak currents at each terminal do not likely occur at the same time a single vector of peak currents may be pessimistic in some embodiments.

In another embodiment the method or system invokes a second method that may identify the maximum current at each device terminal and save the full set of terminal currents at that particular time. If there exist N device terminals there will be N vectors of currents that represent the set of peak current values. This embodiment may be extended to determine the maximum and minimum currents at each device terminal which produces 2N current vectors for solving. This embodiment may use the method of single decomposition of the conductance matrix followed by forward and backward substitution to get the voltages and currents for each of the 2N vectors. This embodiment may also store at least one reference voltage as well. The current or voltage data may be stored on disk or memory and if useful could be compressed in that it often represents a large volume of data. More information about the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with one or more electrical parasitics or physical data will be described in greater details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures.

In some embodiments the method or the system may also store the one or more electrical characteristics associated with the physical data of a net device or component in a non transitory computer readable storage medium or display the one or more electrical characteristics in a user interface such as a graphical user interface. More details about displaying the one or more electrical characteristics in a user interface will be provided in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 628 which is entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Referring to which illustrates a more detailed diagram for the method or system for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness and some detailed information about the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with electrical parasitics in some embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or a hardware module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of an electronic circuit physical design in various embodiments.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data and the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and physical data at .

In some embodiments the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of identifying or determining one or more EM related constraints that are associated with the one or more characterized electrical characteristics at . In some embodiments the one or more EM related constraints comprise one or more limits on current densities for one or more nets devices or components. In some embodiments the one or more EM related constraints may comprise one or more functions of the physical data the electrical parasitics or the combination thereof.

For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of the geometric dimension such as length or width of an interconnect or via. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of via groups or arrays. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of the net attribute such as signal power ground. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of the duty or pulse characteristics of a particular signal. In some embodiments the other data related to the one or more EM related constraints comprise for example but not limited to reliability of the component related to the physical data or of the electronic circuit power supply integrity etc.

In these embodiments where one or more EM related constraints are identified or determined the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints at . More information about the processes and modules involving the identification or determination of one or more EM related constraints and ensuring the correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints will be described in further details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures.

For example the process or module may identify the current s from the schematic enabled simulation s at and then invoke a linear matrix solver to solve for the current flows through the net in the physical design by using the conductance at . It shall be noted that the method or the system may invoke one or more different solvers such as a non linear solver a commercial circuit simulation tool or a combination thereof hereinafter solver etc. at to achieve the same purpose. More information about the processes and modules of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics will be described in further details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figures.

Referring to which illustrates a more detailed diagram for the method or system for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness and some detailed information about the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with electrical parasitics both of which are similar to the method system process and module as illustrated in and described in some of the preceding paragraphs. is provided to point out that the device related simulation from the schematic may often be done before any physical data is created. In this case the simulation data is assembled may be post processed to compute peak RMS or average values from the waveforms and may be stored for use during physical design. One requirement for the linear solver based flow is that the terminal currents be available for retrieval and use prior to invoking the linear solver to generate the currents and voltages in the interconnect. This figure is provided to illustrate that alternative flows may be used to bring simulation data into solver based flow.

In one or more embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for completing the schematic design of an electronic circuit design at . The method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for running simulation s assembling or computing electrical data such as current data or voltage data and storing the computed electrical data at in some embodiments. The method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may proceed from to to invoke the process or the hardware module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with one or more electrical parasitics and the physical data of a component in the electronic circuit design in one or more embodiments.

In addition or in the alternative the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for identifying determining or updating the physical data of a component in the electronic circuit design at in one or more embodiments. In these embodiments the method or system may further comprise the process or hardware module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component of the electronic circuit design at . In one or more embodiments where the method or the system invokes the process or the hardware module at the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may proceed to to invoke another process or hardware module for identifying or determining one or more electro migration related constraints that are associated with the one or more electrical characteristics.

In one or more embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further optionally comprise the process or module for ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data that are related to the one or more electro migration related constraints at . In one or more embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics at .

In these embodiments the process or hardware module for characterizing the one or more electrical characteristics may comprise the corresponding process or hardware module for retrieving electrical data for one or more components at . In some embodiments the electrical data comprise electrical current s such as peak current s or average current s for one or more terminals. In some embodiments the process or hardware module for characterizing the one or more electrical characteristics may further comprise the corresponding process or hardware module for invoking or utilizing a solver such as a linear matrix solver or a non linear solver at to solve for or acquire one or more electrical data such as various current s voltage s or with additional computation current density or densities at one or more components at .

In one or more embodiments the aforementioned approach comprises the processes or modules of identifying a complete schematic design of an electronic circuit at and simulating assembling or computing and storing the information or data of various current s or voltage s in a computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments the information or data of various current s or voltage s may be stored in a volatile memory such as some random access memory for a substantially real time determination and characterization of whether at least a part of the electronic circuit complies with certain EM related constraints. In some embodiments the information or data of various current s or voltage s may be stored in a non volatile memory such as a computer hard drive.

In some embodiments the method or the system as illustrated in comprises the process or hardware module of storing one or more current waveforms for each of a plurality of terminals of at least a part of the electronic circuit design at C. These one or more waveforms describe the current data at for example a terminal at certain points in time. More details about the process or module of storing one or more current waveforms will be described in subsequent paragraphs with reference to one or more figures. In these embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or hardware module which is substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for identifying determining or updating the physical data of the component. Moreover the method or system may also comprise the process or module which is substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for characterizing one or more electrical parasitic s that are associated with the physical data of the component.

In some embodiments the method or the system may comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for characterizing one or more electrical characteristic s that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics and the physical data of the component. The method or the system may also comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for identifying or determining one or more EM related constraints that are associated with the one or more electrical characteristics in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for ensuring the correctness of the physical data or other data that are related to the one or more EM related constraints in these embodiments.

The process or module may further comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to to invoke a solver such as a linear matrix solver or a non linear solver to solve for one or more electrical characteristics of the at least a portion of the layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the one or more electrical characteristics comprise some current s voltage s or current density or densities at for example a terminal of a component or through a segment of an interconnect.

At the process or module comprises decomposing the electrical conductance matrix into an upper triangular matrix and a lower triangular matrix in some embodiments. In some embodiments where the electrical conductance matrix constitutes a positive definite and symmetric matrix the process or module may invoke for example some direct methods such as the Cholesky based techniques or the LU decomposition techniques to decompose the electrical conductance matrix into the lower triangular matrix and the upper triangular matrix. In some other embodiments the process or the module may invoke other numerical techniques such as the conjugate gradient method or the biconjugate gradient method to achieve substantially the same purpose.

At the process or module may comprise using forward and backward substitution to solve for one or more electrical characteristics in some embodiments. In one embodiment the one or more electrical characteristics comprise various voltages at various nodes in the at least a portion of the electronic circuit design. In these embodiments where the one or more electrical characteristics comprise various voltages the process or module may further comprise using the various voltages to solve for various currents flowing through the component. In some cases the determination of various currents may be sufficient to determine whether or not the portion of the electronic circuit design satisfies certain design rules.

For example in some embodiments where various processes or modules as described herein are integrated with or integrally linked to a physical design implementation platform such as a layout tool or editor the physical shapes and thus the geometric information or data of the physical shapes of the at least a portion of an electronic circuit design are readily available. In these embodiments the process or module may further determine for example current densities by performing further computation using the determined currents and the geometric information of various physical shapes. In the example of the foundry imposed limits on current densities the method or the system may determine the current densities through various parts of the portion of electronic circuit design and then determines whether the portion of the electronic circuit design satisfies the limits on current densities by comparing the determined current densities with the limits on current densities imposed by the design rules.

In some embodiments the process or module for solving for various currents voltages or current densities at or may comprise using currents for EM limits expressed in terms of maximum current that is computed for each net shape at . For example certain foundries impose EM related constraints by imposing limits on current densities through various parts of the portion of the electronic circuit design. In some embodiments where various processes or modules are integrated with or integrally linked to some physical design implementation platform such as a layout tool or editor the physical shapes and thus the geometric information of these physical shapes in the portion of the electronic circuit design become available. In these embodiments the method or the system may determine whether the portion of the electronic circuit design satisfies the limitations on current densities by translating the current density limits into limits on currents based on the geometric information and further by comparing such limits on currents with the currents determined at .

The process or module may comprise identifying a set of 2N current vectors I I . . . I I. . . I for a total of N or 2N terminals from one or more simulations at G in some embodiments. In some embodiments where the currents are bi directional both the positive maximum current and the maximum negative current are examined for each of the N terminals and thus there are 2N column vectors for the 2N currents at these N terminals. In some embodiments where the electrical currents are uni directional such as in the cases where one or more signal nets are identified as the components for EM analysis the process or module examines the maximum current at each terminal and thus there are 2N column current vectors for 2N terminals in these embodiments. At G the process or module further comprises selecting one of these 2N current vectors that are identified at G in some embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the process or module may further comprise characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component of a portion of an electronic circuit design at G. In these embodiments the process or module may further comprise using the one or more electrical parasitics such as the resistance parasitics to construct an electrical conductance matrix G in a manner that is substantially similar to that of as described in some of the preceding paragraphs. The process or module may then comprise decomposing the electrical conductance matrix G into an upper triangular matrix and a lower triangular matrix in a manner that is substantially similar to that of as described in some of the preceding paragraphs in these embodiments.

Upon the selection of one of the 2N current column vectors at G and the decomposition of the electrical conductance matrix G at the process or module may then uses for example forward substitution and backward substitution to solve for voltages for the portion of the electronic circuit design in a manner that is substantially similar to that of as described in some of the preceding paragraphs in some embodiments. The process or module may then use the voltages to solve for currents that flow through the component for the current vector that is selected or identified at G in some embodiments. In one or more embodiments the process or module may comprise identifying or determining one or more proper EM related constraints that are associated with the electrical characteristics in a manner that is substantially similar to that of or as described in some of the preceding paragraphs.

The process or module may further comprise ensuring the correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints in a manner that is substantially similar to that of or as described in some of the preceding paragraphs in some embodiments. At F the process or module may then loop back to G to select the next current vector of the 2N vectors and repeats the above steps. In this example the current vector for each terminal is examined to determine whether the corresponding EM related constraint s is satisfied.

The method or system may further comprise characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with the physical data of a component of a portion of an electronic circuit design at H and proceeds to to use the one or more electrical parasitics such as resistance parasitics to construct an electrical conductance matrix G in a manner that is substantially similar to that of as described in some of the preceding paragraphs. In these embodiments the method or system may further comprise decomposing the electrical conductance matrix G into an upper triangular matrix and a lower triangular matrix in a manner that is substantially similar to that of as described in some of the preceding paragraphs.

After the identification of one of the T column current vectors at H and the decomposition of the electrical conductance matrix G the method or the system may then comprise using forward and backward substitution to solve for various voltages and solving for currents through the component by using at least the voltages at in a manner that is substantially similar to that of and as described in some of the preceding paragraphs. The method or system may then loop back to H to identify or select another current vector of the T column current vectors. Once all of the T column current vectors have been processed by using the processes or modules H and the method or system may then proceed to H to compute the RMS values for e.g. each net segment in some embodiments where a net has been identified as the component of interest.

In one or more embodiments the process or module may comprise identifying or determining one or more proper EM related constraints that are associated with the electrical characteristics in a manner that is substantially similar to that of or as described in some of the preceding paragraphs. The process or module may further comprise ensuring the correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints in a manner that is substantially similar to that of or as described in some of the preceding paragraphs in some embodiments. At H the method or system may loop back to H to further identify or select the next set of current vectors in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the average values may be computed as part of the RMS computation from the current waveforms. In these embodiments the two methods are similar in terms of decomposition of the conductance matrix and the solving for voltages and currents through each resistance element. As the RMS values are computed for each waveform the average currents are computed as well. The RMS values are checked against RMS limits and the average values checked against the average limits.

The method or the system may also comprise using the one or more electrical parasitics the resistance parasitics in this example as illustrated in to for a matrix. In some embodiments that encompass this example in the method or the system comprises using the resistance parasitics to construct an electrical conductance matrix G in a substantially similar manner as that of described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to . In these embodiments the method or the system may further the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for decomposing the electrical conductance matrix into an upper triangular matrix and a lower triangular matrix.

Upon the identification or selection of a column current vector at J and the decomposition of the electrical conductance matrix at the method or the system may comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to using forward and backward substitution to solve for some electrical characteristics in some embodiments. In some embodiments encompassing the example as illustrated in the electrical characteristics being solved for comprise various voltages. In these embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for using the various voltages that are determined at to solve for current s throughout the component of interest at . The method or the system may further determine whether there exist more column current vectors in the set of C column current vectors in some embodiments. The method or the system may then loop back to J to identify or select another column current vector from the set of C column current vectors in some embodiments where it is determined that there still exist some column current vectors in the set.

In some embodiments where the component of interest is identified to be a net the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for determining the RMS value s for each segment of the net at J. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module which are substantially similar to the process or module or as described in some preceding paragraphs with reference to for identifying or determining one or more EM related constraints that are associated with the one or more electrical characteristics in one or more embodiments. The process or module may further comprise ensuring the correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints in a manner that is substantially similar to that of or as described in some of the preceding paragraphs in some embodiments. At J the method or system may further return to select the next current vector in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the method or system performs various processes or invokes various modules as described herein with reference to various figures for implementing electronic circuit design while maintaining electro migration awareness on a net by net basis. In these embodiments the method or system performs various actions while operating on a partial layout that does not and will not pass the LVS check or verification. For example various processes or modules need only a single net to perform their intended functions and to achieve their intended purposes. In other words various processes or modules described herein may be invoked to implement the electronic circuit design even when the physical design e.g. the layout contains the very first net in some embodiments.

Referring to which illustrate more details for the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with one or more electrical parasitics in some embodiments the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with one or more electrical parasitics comprises identifying or determining temperature or thermal data at and imparting the temperature or thermal data into the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data at . For example the method or the system may identify or determine the maximum or average operating temperature via for example device environmental specification a Joule heating model or a heat transfer model for an interconnect segment use the temperature to more accurately determine the electrical resistivity which is in turn used to more accurately determine the electrical resistance of the interconnect segment.

The process or module identifies the schematic of the electronic circuit at and generates a netlist at in some embodiments. The process or module may then identify one or more simulation parameters or analysis points or corners for the simulation s at and then invokes one or more simulators to perform simulation s at the schematic level to determine for example the current and voltage for each terminal of a device in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module at may optionally comprise separating the nets into power nets and signal nets. The process or module may then use for example a transistor level simulator to perform simulations for the signal net s and a matrix solver to solve for the currents voltages etc. for the power ground nets because the power ground nets are usually larger than the signal nets and thus may contain many resistors and capacitors and further because the power ground nets usually carry sufficiently constant currents such that the EM analysis of the power ground nets may be adequately ascertained by using a DC current density.

The process or module may further comprises performing simulation s at the schematic level in some embodiments at and storing the original or compressed simulation result s or data in a non transitory computer readable storage medium at . In various embodiments a schematic circuit may be created and simulated to determine the electrical characteristics such as the currents or voltages of the circuit. In some embodiments as described herein this may be done any time prior to solving for the electrical characteristics of the physical design. In these embodiments simulation may be done upon completion of the schematic and in this flow that simulation data or results may be stored in a database for retrieval later. The simulation is operated at particular corners and analysis points such as temperature and the same settings are used during parasitic extraction.

At the process or module may further comprise assembling and providing the electrical characteristics such as the currents e.g. the RMS currents peak currents average currents or voltages to the physical design in some embodiments. The process or module may then use a solver for example a linear matrix solver to solve for the electrical characteristics of the physical design of the electronic design at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the electrical characteristics comprise current s voltage s or current density densities that is associated with the physical data.

Referring to which illustrates more details for the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data and for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with one or more electrical parasitics in some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with one or more electrical parasitics comprises identifying or determining temperature or thermal data at and imparting the temperature or thermal data into the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data at of . In some embodiments thermal maps where the estimated operating temperature varies across a device may be applied locally to estimate the correct parasitic elements. For example certain resistances or capacitances may be expressed in terms of temperatures to characterize their temperature dependence. In some embodiments various temperature or thermal data may also be imparted into the process or module of identifying or determining one or more EM related constraints that are associated with one or more electrical characteristics such as those in the processes or modules or . In some embodiments the process or the module may use one or more maximum temperature for each for example but not limited to terminal to identify or determine the one or more EM related constraints. In some embodiments the process or the module may use one or more average temperatures to identify or determine the one or more EM related constraints. In some embodiments the process or the module may use one or more appropriate temperatures which is are determined based at least in part upon for example the predicted or guaranteed life of the electronic device to identify or determine the one or more EM related constraints.

The temperature or thermal data may further be imparted into the process or module for specifying simulation parameters or analysis points or corners at in some embodiments. The simulation parameters or analysis points or corners may then be further imparted to the process or module which performs one or more simulations at the schematic level. In addition the process or module may further comprise mapping physical data or layout information to schematic level data at in some embodiments. At the process or module may further optionally comprise reducing the parasitics to an approximate form to speed up physical level simulation s that is to be performed at in some embodiments. At the method or system may further comprise determining or assembling the current s voltage s or current density densities that is are associated with the physical data in some embodiments.

In some embodiments where the method or system incorporates both the processes or modules as illustrated in and the physical data the electrical parasitics or the electrical characteristics are passed between the schematic domain and the physical domain such that both the schematic domain tools such as a schematic level simulator and the physical domain tools such as the placement tool the router or the physical level simulators etc. are aware of such data while the physical design layout is being implemented. In other words as the physical design is being implemented more physical layout components will be implemented into the layout. As a result more electrical parasitics and thus electrical characteristics become available as the physical design is being implemented. Therefore both the schematic level tools and the physical domain tools such that these tools take such data into account while the physical design is being implemented and thus possess a unique advantage over conventional approaches where the physical data the electrical parasitics associated with the physical data and electrical characteristics associated with the electrical parasitics are not considered until the post layout design stages such as a post layout physical verification stage.

Referring to which illustrates more details for the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data and for characterizing one or more electrical characteristics that are associated with one or more electrical parasitics in some embodiments the process or module may further comprise the process or module for manually entering voltage or current values or vectors such as the RMS currents the peak currents the average currents or the current waveforms etc. into the physical design at in some embodiments. In one embodiment the user designer may do what if analysis where currents and voltages may be manually entered for one or more nets where they don t exist or modified where they do exist. In this use model the designer can intentionally modify these values to examine electrical parameter sets not computed or provided by simulation. In some cases the person performing layout may not have access to simulation data but still wants to examine the impact of manually entered electrical parameters.

At the manually entered voltages or currents are passed along into a linear solver to characterize the electrical characteristics in some embodiments. The linear solver may also consider one or more electrical parasitics that are characterized at in characterizing the electrical characteristics that are associated with the electrical parasitics in some embodiments. At the process or module may further comprise the process or module for assembling or determining the current s voltage s or current density densities that are associated with the physical data in some embodiments.

Referring to which illustrates more details for the process or module for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness in some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit design with electro migration awareness comprises identifying or determining one or more EM related constraints that are associated with the characterized electrical characteristics at . At the method or the system identifies or retrieves one or more EM related constraints. In some embodiments where the one or more EM related constraints are provided in the form of limits on current densities the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs may further comprise checking the current or current density of a physical object against the one or more EM related constraints at . It shall be noted that the system is aware of the physical data such as the width length or cross sectional area of a circuit component at the physical level such as wire via or via cluster and thus the one or more EM related constraints may be provided in either current density format or current format. Some embodiments may use physical data geometry to convert current density limits to maximum current s for a given object geometry so that the user can work solely with currents a metric that may be relate better or more intuitively to the expected circuit behavior.

The method or the system may optionally proceed to to invoke the process or module for determining one or more correct EM limits or EM related constraints to use in subsequent process es or module s in some embodiments. In some embodiments an EM limit or constraint may be identified as a simple numerical value such as a maximum current density or maximum density. In some other embodiments an EM limit or constraint may be identified as a function or functional of geometry of the net device or component associated with the physical data . For example the lengths of certain wires or interconnects may be under the Blech length and thus electro migration is not a concern for such wires or interconnects. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of via groups or arrays. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of the net attribute such as signal power ground. For example an EM related constraint may be provided as a function of the duty or pulse characteristics of a particular signal.

In some embodiments the process or module further comprises determining whether the one or more characterized electrical characteristics meet the one or more EM related constraints or limits for an object associated with the physical data such as a wire a wire segment a via or a via cluster at . For example the process or module may check a wire segment or a via to determine whether the current such as the RMS current the peak current the average current or the current waveform or the current density meets the corresponding maximum current or current density constraint.

Therefore the method or the system as illustrated in depicts an approach that for each physical data object e.g. wire segment via via cluster currents or current densities in the physical data object may be compared with the maximum current or maximum current density limits that are prescribed in one or more EM related constraints in some embodiments. In some embodiments the EM limits or constraints may be based on geometric characteristics of the physical data for example some wire segments may be under the Blech length and thus EM is not a factor. In other cases there are wire width and length based EM limits and via cluster and via overlap related limits and relaxing products on the limits as well.

Moreover the limits or constraints are compared to the electrical characteristics. The method or the system further provides the capability to notify the user through a graphical user interface when the limits or constraints are exceeded in some embodiments. When the current or current density associated with a physical data e.g. wire segment is exceeded the physical geometries e.g. wire width of the data object may be computed such the limit is not exceeded in some embodiments. In addition these changes may be displayed as a hint to the user for manual fixing or the changes may be made automatically in some embodiments.

Furthermore the EM checking flow as described herein may be used as part of the manual or automatic routing or post route optimization of a design for example during design of a block or integration activity in some embodiments. In this flow each route is created checked for EM correctness and if necessary corrected before moving to the next route in these embodiments. The EM checking flow as described herein in various embodiments may be further combined with current voltage resistance or capacitance constraints that are created or identified prior to physical design.

Referring to which illustrates a more detailed flow diagram for the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module of identifying determining updating the physical data of a net a device or a component of the electronic circuit design at in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data at and the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with the one or more electrical parasitics at in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module of identifying or determining one or more EM related constraint associated with the one or more electrical characteristics at in some embodiments. The method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints in some embodiments at . The details of the processes or modules of and have been described in previous paragraphs with reference to and will not be repeated here.

In some embodiments where at least a part of the physical data is determined not to meet the one or more EM related constraints or is determined to be incorrect the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of computing or determining one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at . For example if the current density for a wire segment with a width of 0.12 m is determined to have failed a current density EM constraint the method or the system may determine or compute one or more adjustments to the width which when made will cause the wire segment to meet the current density EM constraint or may provide a hint such as widen the width of the wire segment to 0.16 m or simply widen the width of the wire segment without specific numerical values or reconfigure the bend at x y location to the user such that the user may know where the EM violation is and or how to fix the EM violation.

Referring to which illustrates a more detailed flow diagram for the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness the method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module of identifying determining updating the physical data of a net a device or a component of the electronic circuit design at in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical parasitics associated with the physical data at and the process or module of characterizing one or more electrical characteristics associated with the one or more electrical parasitics at in a single embodiment or in some embodiments.

The method or the system may further comprise the process or module of identifying or determining one or more EM related constraint associated with the one or more electrical characteristics at in some embodiments. The method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data related to the one or more EM related constraints in some embodiments at . In some embodiments where at least a part of the physical data is determined not to meet the one or more EM related constraints or is determined to be incorrect the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of computing or determining one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at . The details of the processes or modules of and have been described in previous paragraphs with reference to and will not be repeated here.

In some embodiments the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module of determining or checking to ensure whether or not one or more adjustments or hints violate other one or more design rules or constraints at . For example an EM violation may result in the widening of a wire to reduce the current density below a limit but may also increase coupling capacitance to an adjacent neighbor beyond an established constraint. At the method or the system may proceed to apply the one or more adjustments to fix the physical design in some embodiments or may display one or more hints to the user in some other embodiments.

For example in the embodiments where the method or the system determines that the one or more adjustments determined at do not cause violations of other design rules or constraints the method or the system may apply the one or more adjustments to fix the physical data at . In the alternative in some embodiments where the method or the system determines that the one or more adjustments determined or computed at violate one or more other design rules or constraints the method or the system may still apply the one or more adjustments to fix the physical data and present the violations of the one or more other design rules or constraints to the user. Moreover in these embodiments where the method or the system determines that the one or more adjustments determined or computed at violate other design rules or constraints the method or the system may further fine tune the one or more adjustments determined or computed at or may determine or compute other adjustments to address the violations caused by the one or more adjustments. In these embodiments the method or the system may further optionally present one or more hints involving these other adjustments to the user or may apply these other adjustments to fix the violations caused by the one or more adjustments determined or computed at .

Referring to which illustrates a more detailed flow diagram for the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness the processes or modules and correspond to the substantially similar processes or modules and and thus will not be repeated here to avoid duplication of records. The method or the system for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of applying the one or more adjustments that are determined or computed at to the net device or component or the associated physical data at in some embodiments.

Once the one or more adjustments are applied to meet the one or more EM related constraints the method or the system may further loop back to to further determine whether there exist a need to further identify or determine another net device or component or whether the existing identified or determined net device or component needs to be updated after the application of the one or more adjustments at . The method or the system then proceeds through the process flow as described in various embodiments with reference to various figures until the physical design is complete. In various embodiments the method or the system implements the physical design of an electronic circuit while being aware of electro migration related constraints or rules in some embodiments. That is the method or the system is aware of the electro migration related design rules or constraints while the method or the system is implementing the nets devices components or even the first net first device or first component into the physical design of the electronic circuit design.

According to one embodiment computer system performs specific operations by one or more processor or processor cores executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable usable storage medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention.

Various actions or processes as described in the preceding paragraphs may be performed by using one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof where the one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof executes one or more threads. For example the act of specifying various net or terminal sets or the act or module of performing verification or simulation etc. may be performed by one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof. In one embodiment the parasitic extraction current solving current density computation and current or current density verification is done in memory as layout shapes or nets are created or modified.

The term computer readable storage medium or computer usable storage medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable storage media includes for example electromechanical disk drives such as a floppy disk a flexible disk or a hard disk a flash based RAM based such as SRAM DRAM SDRAM DDR MRAM etc. or any other solid state drives SSD magnetic tape any other magnetic or magneto optical medium CD ROM any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system . According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In an embodiment the computer system operates in conjunction with a data storage system e.g. a data storage system that contains a database that is readily accessible by the computer system . The computer system communicates with the data storage system through a data interface . A data interface which is coupled to the bus transmits and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that include data streams representing various types of signal information e.g. instructions messages and data. In embodiments of the invention the functions of the data interface may be performed by the communication interface .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

