---

title: Techniques for monitoring secure cloud based content
abstract: Techniques for monitoring secure cloud based content are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for monitoring secure cloud based content comprising monitoring, using a browser component, a secure session accessing cloud based content, the monitoring capable of accessing content other than content requested by a user of the browser, identifying content meeting a specified criteria, and performing a specified action based at least in part on the identified content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215264&OS=09215264&RS=09215264
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09215264
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100820
---
The present disclosure relates generally to monitoring content and more particularly to techniques for monitoring secure cloud based content.

More data is moving online into secure cloud based environments. Meanwhile social networking applications and other network accessible applications have an increasing number of users. Monitoring such applications may be restricted by the storage of data in a secure cloud based environment. That is such data is difficult to monitor for security purposes or for objectionable content. Also data may be encrypted and access to such data via a user s account may not be possible or practical.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with current technologies for monitoring cloud based content.

Techniques for monitoring secure cloud based content are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for monitoring secure cloud based content comprising monitoring using a browser component a secure session accessing cloud based content the monitoring capable of accessing content other than content requested by a user of the browser identifying content meeting a specified criteria and performing a specified action based at least in part on the identified content.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the browser component may monitor the secure session by creating a hidden inline frame in a Web document of the browser.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the monitoring may be performed without periodic authorization of a user of the browser.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the monitoring of the secure session may be performed using a same connection created by a user of the browser.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the browser component may comprise a browser plug in.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment identifying content meeting a specified criteria may comprise identifying content matching one or more of a malware signature a blacklisted network address a footprint reputation based analysis objectionable content restrictions and behavioral analysis.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment identifying content meeting a specified criteria may comprise identifying a content provider for which one or more specified actions are provided.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the content provider may comprise at least one of a social networking site an online gaming site and an e commerce site.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the specified action may comprise collecting secure content specific to the identified content provider.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more specified actions may comprise at least one of collecting profile information from a social networking site collecting age information from a social networking site collecting lists of friends collecting chat conversations blocking a communication blocking an action emulating a user action logging an action and providing a notification.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment emulating a user action may comprise at least one of uninstalling a user application unsubscribing from a list unsubscribing from a group blocking a communication modifying a privacy setting modifying an access setting modifying a friends list and modifying a contacts list.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment identification of a content provider with one or more specified actions may be performed using a site signature the site signature providing one or more content provider site identifiers and one or more actions.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may further comprise receiving one or more site signatures from a remote host.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the one or more specified actions may include logging secure cloud based content and providing one or more portions to a remote host.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the specified action may be specified by at least one of a parent a guardian and an administrator.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the monitoring may be performed at least one of periodic intervals and based on usage.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may further comprise in the event the cloud based content is associated with a content provider for which no specified actions are provided one or more portions of the cloud based content may be provided to a remote host for analysis.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as at least one non transitory processor readable storage medium for storing a computer program of instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one processor to execute a computer process.

In another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a an article of manufacture for monitoring secure cloud based content the article of manufacture comprising at least one non transitory processor readable medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to monitor using a browser component a secure session accessing cloud based content the monitoring capable of accessing content other than content requested by a user of the browser identify content meeting a specified criteria and perform a specified action based at least in part on the identified content.

In yet another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for monitoring secure cloud based content comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network wherein the one or more processors are configured to monitor using a browser component a secure session accessing cloud based content the monitoring capable of accessing content other than content requested by a user of the browser identify content meeting a specified criteria and perform a specified action based at least in part on the identified content.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for monitoring cloud based content that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Network architecture may contain client system as well as servers A and B one or more of which may be implemented using computer system shown in . Client system may be communicatively coupled to a network . Server A may be communicatively coupled to storage devices A N and server B may be communicatively coupled to storage devices B N . Servers A and B may contain a management module e.g. signature management module of server A . Servers A and B may be communicatively coupled to a SAN Storage Area Network fabric . SAN fabric may support access to storage devices N by servers A and B and by client system via network . Server A may be communicatively coupled to network . Client may contain one or more modules for monitoring secure cloud based content including request initiator module content scanner module signature handling module and response module .

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client system to network . Client system may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software. Such a client may allow client system to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between client servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments client may be a smartphone PDA desktop computer a laptop computer a server another computer or another device coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Client may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between client and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data.

Request initiator module may begin a process of scanning secure cloud based content. According to some embodiments request initiator module may be implemented using a browser plug in a browser helper object via a standard interface to a web client or via a proprietary interface to a web client. According to one or more embodiments request initiator module may create a hidden inline frame iframe in a browser document which may be used to monitor content. Once an iframe or other structure in a browser is instantiated to monitor content content monitoring may be performed by content scanner module .

Content scanner module may scan one or more portions of cloud based content using a hidden iframe. This may enable monitoring of secure content using an authenticated authorized or otherwise secure session established by a user. Content scanner module may use a hidden inline frame to monitor a current session without requiring a user s credentials and or explicit or periodic authorization of a user. Content scanner module may be platform and destination site independent e.g. it may be used on a variety of browsers on different operating systems and may be used to monitor sessions of different destination websites or content providers. By using a current session of a user to scan content content scanner module may avoid problems with security software which may prevent monitoring of secure content in a separate session using the same authentication.

Content scanner module may be capable of obtaining secure cloud based content from any URL URI network path and or network address to which a browser is authorized and or authenticated regardless of a web page or network address currently being accessed by a user. For example a user may navigate to a social networking site and access content associated on a settings page of the user even though a user may not have requested that page or currently be accessing that page. Content scanner module may also access other pages on other sites that do not require authentication or for which authentication has previously been provided. Content scanner module may scan using a hidden iframe and thus scanning actions may not be readily apparent or visible to a user.

According to some embodiments content scanner module may scan periodically based on usage e.g. time connected to a particular site an amount of data downloaded from a particular site or using other metrics. This may minimize an impact on a user s network performance by preventing a scan of potential pages when a browser is authenticated to a particular site. According to some embodiments content scanner module may access a log indicating the last time a particular site has been scanned and may determine whether a site needs to be scanned. According to at least one embodiment content scanner module may provide a URL URI or another network address indicator to a remote host which may log the information and may send specific instructions or actions if a scan is desired. Content scanner module may also receive an alert if a remote host identifies a vulnerability or security threat associated with a network site and may response module may perform one or more actions in response e.g. begin a scan if currently connected perform a virus scan etc. . Alerts sent by a remote host may include an alert sent by a security software provider to one or more clients who have previously logged a visit to a site associated with the alert.

Content scanner module may identify a content provider and or website associated for which one or more actions are provided. For example the content provider may be a social networking site an online gaming site an e commerce site or another website for which content scanner module contains or accesses one or more specific instructions. Content scanner module may detect a browser requesting a URL a URI or another network address. Content scanner module may use a portion of the network address to query retrieve or otherwise access specific instructions e.g. content scanner module may detect that facebook or another website has been requested and may use one or more portions of a URL of the request to look for specific instructions for that particular site. 

Response module may perform one or more specified instructions or actions which may include collecting secure content specific to the identified content provider. Specified actions may include collecting profile information from a social networking site collecting age information from a social networking site collecting lists of friends collecting chat conversations blocking a communication blocking an action logging an action and or providing a notification. Response module may be capable of emulating a user action such as for example uninstalling a user application unsubscribing from a list unsubscribing from a group blocking a communication modifying a privacy setting modifying an access setting modifying a friends list and or modifying a contacts list.

According to some embodiments content scanner module may identify a content provider and or one or more specified actions to be performed using a site signature. A site signature may provide one or more content provider site identifiers and one or more actions. According to some embodiments site signatures may contain lists of supported portals e.g. Facebook myspace gmail yahoo etc. . Site signatures may use regular expressions e.g. string matching and matching URIs URLs or other network addresses network paths or portions of network addresses. Site signatures may be structured in different data formats e.g. XML . Site signatures may also include specific instructions for content scanner module to perform at a specific site or a specific address of a specific site. Site signatures may use one or more formats to provide actions for a specific site e.g. XSLT and or XPATH . Site signatures may be handled by signature handling module .

According to some embodiments signature handling module may receive one or more site signatures from a remote host e.g. signature management module . For example content scanner module may detect a URI being requested by a browser and signature handling module may query a host or data source for one or more specific instructions e.g. transmit a site identifier such as a URI to a remote host to receive a corresponding site signature .

Data may be logged by content scanner module and or provided to a remote host. For example content scanner module may determine that a child s social networking site is being accessed and may log one or more settings e.g. collecting age information from settings collecting lists of friends collecting chat conversations etc. . This logged information may be provided to a remote host e.g. a security website provided by a security software provider a connectivity provider an employer a school etc. for analysis and or notification. A parent guardian employer administrator or other authorized user may be able to monitor or be notified of security concerns objectionable content and or other specified issues. A parent guardian or other authorized user may select or customize a policy providing one or more settings governing use of one or more network sites e.g. allowing only content with a certain rating .

According to some embodiments signature handling module may be capable of receiving a series of instructions associated with a site. For example a first set of instructions associated with a particular site may include scanning for installed social networking applications and providing identifiers of the installed applications to a network address e.g. a remote host for rating. If an installed application is rated as a security threat or as containing objectionable content instructions may be provided to response module to emulate a user action e.g. using an iframe of the browser to uninstall the application.

One or more modules of a client may perform actions even if a particular destination site of a browser is not identified. Actions may include identifying content matching one or more of a malware signature a blacklisted network address and or a footprint. Other actions may include reputation based analysis objectionable content restrictions and or behavioral analysis.

According to some embodiments in the event content accessed by a browser is associated with an unknown site e.g. the cloud based content is associated with a content provider for which no specified actions are provided one or more portions of the cloud based content may be provided to a remote host for analysis.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example secure cloud based content monitoring module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an Internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

Referring to there is shown a secure cloud based content monitoring module in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated the secure cloud based content monitoring module may contain one or more components including request initiator module content monitoring module signature management module response management module and logging and reporting module .

Request initiator module may begin a process of scanning secure cloud based content. According to some embodiments Request initiator module may be implemented using a browser plug in a browser helper object or via another standard interface to a web client. According to one or more embodiments Request initiator module may create a hidden inline frame iframe in a browser document which may be used to monitor content. Once an iframe or other structure in a browser is instantiated to monitor content content monitoring may be performed by content monitoring module .

Content monitoring module may scan one or more portions of cloud based content using a hidden iframe. This may enable monitoring of secure content using an authenticated authorized or otherwise secure session establish by a user. Content monitoring module may use a hidden inline frame to monitor a current session without requiring a user s credentials and or explicit or periodic authorization of a user. Content monitoring module may be platform and destination site independent e.g. it may be used on a variety of browsers on different operating systems and may be used to monitor sessions of different destination websites or content providers. By using a current session of a user to scan content Content monitoring module may avoid problems with security software which may prevent monitoring of secure content in a separate session using the same authentication.

Content monitoring module may be capable of obtaining secure cloud based content from any URL URI network path and or network address to which a browser is authorized and or authenticated regardless of a web page or network address currently being accessed by a user. For example a user may navigate to a social networking site and access content associated on a settings page of the user even though a user may not have requested that page or currently be accessing that page. Content monitoring module may also access other pages on other sites that do not require authentication or for which authentication has previously been provided. Content monitoring module may scan using a hidden iframe and thus scanning actions may not be readily apparent or visible to a user.

Signature management module may receive one or more specified actions to be performed using a site signature. A site signature may provide one or more content provider site identifiers and one or more actions. According to some embodiments site signatures may contain lists of supported portals e.g. Facebook myspace gmail yahoo etc. . Site signatures may use regular expressions e.g. string matching and matching URIs URLs or other network addresses network paths or portions of network addresses. Site signatures may be structured in different data formats e.g. XML . Site signatures may also include specific instructions for content monitoring module and or response management module to perform at a specific site or a specific address of a specific site. Site signatures may use one or more formats to provide actions for a specific site e.g. XSLT and or XPATH . Site signatures may be handled by signature management module .

According to some embodiments Signature management module may be capable of receiving a series of instructions associated with a site.

Response management module may perform one or more specified instructions or actions which may include collecting secure content specific to the identified content provider. Specified actions may include collecting profile information from a social networking site collecting age information from a social networking site collecting lists of friends collecting chat conversations blocking a communication blocking an action logging an action and or providing a notification. Response management module may be capable of emulating a user action such as for example uninstalling a user application unsubscribing from a list unsubscribing from a group blocking a communication modifying a privacy setting modifying an access setting modifying a friends list and or modifying a contacts list.

Error handling module may handle one or more errors associated with monitoring secure cloud based content.

Referring to there is depicted a method for monitoring cloud based content in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. At block the method may begin.

At block a browser or other internet access tool may be monitored using a component or interface of the tool e.g. a plug in a browser helper object a toolbar. According to some embodiments access may be monitored using a hidden inline frame iframe inserted into an HTML document of the tool. This may allow access to secure content authorized by a session of the tool e.g. access to content of a website logged into by a user of a browser . Monitoring may include obtaining URLs URIs network addresses and other information associated with requests made by a browser. This network access information may be parsed to provide one or more content provider indicators e.g. an identifier associated with a gaming site or a chat site .

At block one or more network access request indicators may be used to determine if a content provider is known e.g. a URI may be used to query a local or remote source to identify a content provider . If a content provider is known the method may continue at block . If a content provider is not known the method may end at block .

At block the method may determine whether data collection is desired. This may include collection of data on at a network location other than a location requested by a user of a browser e.g. a user may navigate to a chat page of a social networking site and data collection may be performed on a profile or settings page of the social networking site . This may be based at least in part on a log or other information indicating a last time a particular content provider was scanned for a particular user. Scanning may occur based on usage based on periodic intervals every time a user connects to a particular site or using other metrics. If scanning is desired the method may continue at block . If scanning is not desired the method may end at block .

At block requested content may be collected. According to some embodiments site signatures may be used which may provide specific network paths and or types of content to collect for a particular network site.

At block collected content may be logged provided to a remote host rated and or analyzed using one or more metrics policies or specified settings. Loaded content i.e. content requested by a user of a browser may also be logged rated and or analyzed.

At block it may be determined whether one or more actions are desired. If one or more actions are desired the method may continue at block . If no actions are desired the method may end at block .

At block one or more actions may be performed. Actions may include collecting profile information from a social networking site collecting age information from a social networking site collecting lists of friends collecting chat conversations blocking a communication blocking a user action logging a user action and or providing a notification. Actions may also include uninstalling a user application unsubscribing from a list unsubscribing from a group blocking a communication modifying a privacy setting modifying an access setting modifying a friends list and or modifying a contacts list.

At this point it should be noted that monitoring cloud based content in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a cloud based content monitoring module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with monitoring cloud based content in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with monitoring cloud based content in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

