---

title: Systems and methods of handling internet spiders
abstract: Aspects relate to identifying Internet spiders with an approach involving a plurality of instances of one or more URLs, which reference resources available from a first domain. Instances of the URLs are distributed at other Internet domains. Spiders crawling those domains will activate those URL instances, resulting in requests for the resources referenced by the URLs. A generator of a number of requests for the same resource, from a potential multitude of URL instances, can cause the generator to be categorized as a spider. Similarly, a generator of a number of requests for resources identified by different URLs also can be categorized as spider behavior. In some cases, the first domain may not have a browseable site infrastructure with, such that a spider would not readily crawl it by following internal links. The URLs can refer to custom queries created by various users, who can provide the URLs on their pages, such as on social networking sites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07987173&OS=07987173&RS=07987173
owner: Vizibility Inc.
number: 07987173
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 795 034 filed on Jun. 7 2010 which claims priority from and incorporates U.S. provisional application No. 61 236 630 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on Aug. 25 2009 and from U.S. provisional application No. 61 348 558 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING FORMULATING DISTRIBUTING AND MONITORING USAGE OF PREDEFINED INTERNET SEARCH QUERIES filed on May 26 2010 this application also claims priority from and incorporates U.S. provisional application No. 61 350 712 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF HANDLING INTERNET SPIDERS filed on Jun. 2 2010 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes herein.

Aspects disclosed herein relate to information searching and more particularly to systems and methods relating to detecting Internet spiders and web crawlers.

Internet users are increasingly finding navigating document collections to be difficult because of the increasing size of such collections. Likewise companies individuals and other organizations wishing to be found by Internet users face growing challenges with maintaining their online visibility. For example it is estimated that the World Wide Web on the Internet includes more than 11 billion pages in the publicly indexable Web across more than 110 million web sites. Consequently finding desired information in such a large collection unless the identity location or characteristics of a specific document or search target are well known can be much like looking for a needle in a haystack. The World Wide Web is a loosely interlinked collection of documents mostly text and images located on servers distributed over the Internet. Generally speaking each document has an address or Uniform Resource Locator URL in the exemplary form http www.server.net directory file.html . In that notation the http specifies the protocol by which the document is to be delivered in this case the HyperText Transport Protocol. The www.server.net specifies the name of a computer or server on which the document resides directory refers to a directory or folder on the server in which the document resides and file.html specifies the name of the file. URLs can be extremely long complex strings of machine readable code.

Many documents on the Web are in markup language e.g. HTML which allows for formatting to be applied to the document external content such as images and other multimedia data types to be introduced within the document and hotlinks or links to other documents to be placed within the document among other things. Hotlinking allows a user to navigate between documents on the Web simply by selecting an item of interest within a page. For example a Web page about reprographic technology might have a hotlink to the Xerox corporate web site. By selecting the hotlink often by clicking a marked word image or area with a pointing device such as a mouse the user s Web browser is instructed to follow the hotlink usually via a URL frequently invisible to the user associated with the hotlink and read a different document. A user cannot be expected to know or remember a URL for each and every document on the Internet or even URLs for those documents in a smaller collection of preferred documents.

Accordingly navigation assistance is not only helpful but important for practical internet usage. Such navigation assistance is typically providing via an Internet based search engine such as Google Microsoft s Bing Yahoo or the like. Accordingly when an Internet user desires to find information about a company individual or organization the Internet user will frequently turn to a search engine to locate the information. A search engine serves as an index into the content stored on the Internet.

 Google www.google.com is an example of a search engine. It operates in a similar manner to traditional keyword based search engines in that a search begins by the user s entry of one or more search terms used in a pattern matching analysis of documents on the Web. It differs from traditional keyword based search engines in that search results are ranked based on a metric of page importance which differs from the number of occurrences of the desired search terms and simple variations upon that theme . Regardless of the proprietary nature of any given search engines approach Internet users searching for companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics i.e. name industry etc. often receive search results that are inaccurate or relate to entities other than the intended search target. For example a search for John Smith with the intention of obtaining information about a particular person by that name will return many results about different John Smith s such that the desired John Smith may not have any relevant results. In these instances the Internet user may build more complex search queries to generate more relevant results which is only possible if the Internet user possesses information that can be used as a basis for such queries.

It is understood and well documented that it is desirable for companies individuals and organizations to appear early in search results for personal financial and other reasons. Prominence in search results for a given term or terms in search engines is a form of third party validation at least in that Internet users place a higher value on entries in top search results because of their perceived relevance success and size. Therefore viewership of search results or click throughs for search results on subsequent results pages declines precipitously.

Search Engine Optimization SEO has emerged as a category of services available to operators of web sites. SEO provides for deliberately engineering prominent placement in search results by tailoring web sites to the algorithms employed by a given search engine. In addition to SEO paid search may be utilized to display an advertisement on the top pages of search results for a given search term s . SEO paid search and other optimization strategies are typically only engaged by organizations due to their complexity and cost. Individuals have fewer options to achieve optimal placement in search results.

Google Profiles is one example of a mechanism individuals can utilize to offer information specific to themselves. Google Profiles does not influence search results however and individuals with even slightly common names often find themselves in a long list with others eliminating the value of the feature. SEO paid search Google Profiles and other similar optimization strategies are reactive in that they only influence but do not control what is returned in search results. These strategies are necessary because the natural search behavior of Internet users favors implementation of less sophisticated search queries or the Internet user simply does not possess the information necessary to build a complex search query that will allow the return of appropriately focused results. When companies individuals or organizations with similar characteristics engage like optimization strategies however the differentiation gained from them diminishes and the value declines for them and Internet users alike.

Search engines employ machines known as spiders or crawlers that traverse Internet accessible directories web pages and other information in order to determine location content and otherwise index resources that are available electronically. One way that machines traverse these electronic resources is by following links from one resource to another. In some cases it may be desirable to differentiate between requests for resources generated by spiders from requests for resources generated by humans.

When a spider reaches a web site it crawls through the links available at the site following one link to another. For example a home page or index can present a page that loads when a top level domain e.g. www.vizibility.com is requested and the content of that page can be crawled by following all the links present on that home page and continuing to recurse further into subpages until all the linked pages have been viewed by the spider.

As such a web site can attempt to detect a spider by observing how machine s associated with a given IP address interacts with the links on the web site. For example by detecting how quickly links are requested by the same IP address non human site navigation can be inferred. Given the heuristic nature of determining whether a given IP address is used by a spider or shared by a group of people or the like further improvements to spider detection remain desirable.

An aspect disclosed includes one or more URLs that are located at different locations on a network e.g. the Internet and which reference a resource at another domain.

An example aspect includes a computer implemented method which comprises providing a plurality of URLs to be provided in content available from a plurality of sources on the Internet. Each of the URLs is resolvable to a resource at a common domain or at multiple domains that share information about resource access . The method also comprises accepting requests for the URL located resources and collecting identifying information for entities making the requests. The method also comprises comparing identifying information for entities making the requests. Based on the comparing the method also comprise identifying an entity making an aberrant number of requests for different URLS of the plurality and identifying that entity as a web crawler. In some examples aberrant includes a comparatively high number of requests for the same URL which can result from a number of instances of that URL being accessed from one or more other locations in the Internet e.g. 5 8 10 or 12 requests for the same URL by the same IP within 24 hours0. In some other examples aberrant includes a comparatively high number of requests for different URLs from the same IP within a period of time. For example these URLs instances of URLs can be located on different pages within a site hosted on a different domain such as a social networking site.

Stated differently a number of URLs can be located in an internet e.g. the Internet and reference one or more resources at a domain. When requests for those resources are received by virtue of clicks on the links identifying information is obtained about the source s of the requests. By observing numbers of requests patterns of requests for different links and other such behavior for different requesters an inference can be made as to whether a given requester is an Internet spider rather than a person. In one application a given URL is associated with a particular entity such as a person and that person is notified when the URL is used. However usage of the URL requests for the resource referenced by it by spiders desirably should not trigger an alert while requests from persons should trigger an alert. In one example each URL references a pre defined query determined for submission to a particular search engine and where the entity is a person the query can be a query tailored to return results relevant to that person. For example the query can help disambiguate between similarly named people to focus on a particular person. Other aspects include systems implementing such methods and media storing instructions for such methods.

As set forth above an Internet site can have a number of pages that reference each other or which otherwise have a browsable hierarchy or structure that makes page content available to those who browse to the site.

In one approach a network accessible resource has a number of resources that can be accessed e.g. an Internet site can have a number of pages that each are referenced by a different URL . However those pages or resources may be largely without references to each other or be referenced by a page which would allow navigation to them.

For example browsing to a top level domain of the site having the resources would not provide an index or other browsable structure or otherwise contain linkages to or among those URLs. Therefore a typical spider visiting such a site would not be presented with an expected browsable site. Such a site generally would be considered less useful for most applications or services than a typical approach to site construction at least because users navigating to the home page would not be presented with the content available or a way to navigate among the content. Such a structure is exemplary and not required in that a content structure also can be provided in addition to the structure described herein as an example implementation.

In one approach URLs referencing the content available at the domain are used on other domains that also can serve content and themselves be visited by spiders. The presence of these URLs instances of such URLs on those different domains allows those URLs to be followed by spiders crawling links on those domains. When any of the URLs are followed the spiders will request the resource identified by that URL from the domain. Where a plurality of such URLs are available on one or more other domains multiple different URLs may be requested in a relatively short period of time.

In one example each URL can reference a pre defined query or profile for a person or product and so on and that URL can be used on any number of other web pages to reference that pre defined query. For example such URLs can be used on social networking sites. If a number of different people have such URLs then a spider crawling such a social network site will encounter and follow a number of these different links. Similarly a spider crawling a number of different web pages may encounter the same URL on a number of pages and follow that URL repeatedly. For example where a number of pages relate to a particular person then a number of those pages may also have the URL referencing the pre defined query for that person.

As such the URLs referencing the same domain or an interconnected intercommunicating set of domains can operate to attract spiders in such a way that their behavior can be viewed more globally than only what behavior they exhibit while crawling a single domain. In one implementation the distribution of these URLs is accomplished by providing a capability for users to create search queries that are referenced by URLs and then allowing those users to embed those URLs in a variety of web resources that they control. The following description provides further examples and other information concerning such implementations and approaches.

Search query provider can be used by an entity e.g. a person to obtain a definition of a search query. A link or referenced to the query definition can be distributed to third parties for use in obtaining information about a particular subject e.g. the person who created the pre defined query an organization object place concept product service event or the like . Because the query is defined prior to the time that it is used typically by an entity other than an entity that is intended to use the query to obtain the information such a search query can be called a pre search query in that it is defined before a time when it is used by a person or entity to search for the topic or subject matter defined by the query e.g. the query can be defined by one party and then distributed to another party that uses it .

In other words the query is defined by a process performed prior to distribution of the query or references to the query for use in searching. Typically the query is defined with a view to tailoring the results that are returned from the query to a desired subject as will be described below. For example the query can be formed during a process performed in a machine which may interact with a person. In one example the process can be performed to define a query that will return search results about a selected person and in such a case the person intended to be the subject of the query may perform the process. In another example if the query is intended to be for a product then a marketing employee of a company producing or selling the product may initiate or engage in the query formation process for that product. To be clear a pre search query is not confined to being used only for people. Therefore creation of a pre search query for a person as in the principal examples herein is for ease and clarity of explanation and not by way of limitation.

Returning to search query provider an example composition of search query provider includes a search engine interface which interfaces with one or more search engines a search engine is depicted such as through respective Application Programming Interfaces APIs provided by the search engines an API for search engine is depicted . search query provider also has a store of scripts e.g. javascripts and UI templates which as will be described below are for use in configuring a user interface located at a browser which can be used in this example for creating a pre search query such scripts also can be run on other devices such as on server resources . An account creation server also is provided for interfacing with the U and can include information gathering functionality that can be implemented through the UI on the browser.

A link server is provided to accept requests for a resource identified by a link e.g. a link made available on a web resource e.g. a page which can be selected or otherwise activated by a request source which is accessing web resource . An analytics engine communicates with link server and operates to obtain and analyze information available from such linking activities. In a particular example a pre search query can be referenced by link such that when link is activated e.g. by clicking on a visual depiction of the link in a page served by web resource to request source information about request source such as information about a browser at request source an IP address operating system and so on can be obtained.

As will be described further below various constituent elements of search query provider communicate with each other in order to perform query definition steps delineated in the examples that follow. For example account creation server can store profile information in profile storage profiles . Also account creation server can update link information on link server e.g. to publish a new link that can be used or otherwise distributed . Similarly account creation server may communicate with search engine interface for providing trial queries to be submitted to search engine and to receive results returned responsive to those queries.

Because a given URL can be replicated a number of times and located on any number of different web properties or domains each replication of the URL also can be referred to as an instance of that URL. In one aspect the distribution of a number of instances of a given URL on different resources within a domain or across a number of different domains can be followed by spiders to a domain referenced in those URL instances. For example a social networking site can have a number of pages resources maintained by a number of distinct members of the site. Each member can have a URL referencing a resource on a first domain other than the domain hosting the social networking site for example each member can have a URL referencing a pre defined search query definition located on a resource at the first domain.

As such the enumerated links and exemplify a situation where a number of links e.g. Uniform Resource Locations URLs are defined and distributed to a plurality of different locations on the Internet or an internet . These URLs link to resources available at one or more domains that can collect or otherwise reference information about requests that are made for the resources referenced by the links. In a more particular example each link and can refer to a pre defined search query created to produce search results for a person at a pre selected search engine.

In one particular application a person or entity can create a pre search query using Internet accessible pre search query search query provider which can assist in creating a search query for a particular search engine that returns results that emphasize a certain concept topic or are focused on a particular person or otherwise disambiguate search results. For example a person can create a pre search query for himself such that submitting that pre search query to a search engine will return results available from the Internet that are relevant to that person and which also can emphasize selected aspects of those results and exclude confusingly similar names.

Continuing with this example application a definition of a pre search query stored at link server can be referenced by a URL e.g. any of links and . Activating such link can cause a redirection to the search engine and the submission of the pre search query to the search engine. In another example usage of the link can return the linked definition and a requester can submit the query definition to the search engine and obtain the results.

As may be discerned pre search queries can be created by an individual or an entity to allow others to be informed quickly and easily about a topic product person or organization for example. As such the creator of a given pre search query may be interested in understanding when and by whom the pre search query has been used. For example an e mail or Short Message System SMS message may be sent to the creator of a given pre search query responsive to activation of a link to the query. However if such a notification system is to be implemented creators of such pre search queries may desire not to be notified when Internet spiders request the pre search query while crawling a page on which a link to the query appears. Therefore an approach to disambiguating between requests by humans or other entities of interest and spiders can be useful.

To summarize the links and represent what could be hundreds thousands tens or even hundreds of thousands of instances of the same link and different links. For example a number of instances of a link pointing to one pre search query can be found at different locations on the Internet even as a number of links pointing to other pre search queries also can be found on the Internet. For example a user can have a Facebook page and a LinkedIn page on which instances of the same URL appear. Similarly there are a number of users of Facebook and LinkedIn each may have a distinct URL pointing to their respective pre search query.

The following disclosure relates to example approaches to differentiating between spiders and requests that would generally be considered by most users to be more interesting e.g. requests initiated by humans and not spiders .

Considering some aspects of in the context of an example solicitation window is depicted in within a context of a web page displaying results returned from the search engine responsive to the redirect . depicts a flow beginning from the display of solicitation window which includes a solicitation for contact information and a conclusion window . Solicitation window depicted in allows a selection of a Get Your Own pre search query button or selection of a Remind Me Later button . A selection of Remind Me Later button is detected and responsive to that detection the solicitation of contact information window appears in order to effect a collection of contact information. A reminder to sign up is sent at a subsequent time which can be scheduled in some embodiments. Selection of Get Your Own button is detected at and responsively the user is redirected to a home page or another location where a process can be conducted to obtain such pre search query. If the user did not select either Remind Me Later button or Get Your Own button then the process can end .

Returning to an IP or equivalent address of the requester can be collected and used in determining whether the requester is on a blacklist that identifies spiders. If the IP address does not match to an entry in a blacklist database then a customer notification procedure can be commenced. If the IP is on the blacklist then a blacklist maintenance process can be invoked. Aspects of maintenance process will be described in more detail below. It is to be understood that disclosure of using Internet Protocol IP is exemplary of an address layer protocol and more generally still an example of information that can be used to identify a source of a request. Similarly the Internet is used as an example of a collection of networks which can be used for carrying communications furthering these examples can be collected if using an addressing protocol other than IP equivalent address information for the request can be gathered or more generally other identifying information for the requester that may be available .

Now turning to an example of a blacklist maintenance process is depicted and described below. As described with respect to requests for resources identified by different URLs one example is multiple URLs but some aspects herein also can be practiced based on requests for a single URL can be received and address information for the requesters is collected . A group of data gathering elements can be implemented for example a determination of a number of different URLs that are requested by the same IP can be made.

Additionally a determination of a number of times a URL is requested by the same IP also can be made. Still further a frequency of requests for one or more URL instances by the same IP can be determined . For example a requester can cycle through a number of URLs at an abnormally rapid pace while a person may also select a number of different URL s but at a slower pace. By particular example a recruiter firm may have a limited number of IP addresses and requests sourced from the firm may by simple numerosity be indicative of a spider but a pattern of the requests may indicate differently. Also request patterns and behavior of some requesters can be compared with that of other requesters in order to gather information about whether a given IP address is used by a spider.

With information gathered a determination as to whether a given IP address is used by a spider is made . The determination can be a trinary decision where the request behavior indicates a strong likelihood that the IP is used by a spider and that decision can result in blacklisting while if the behavior is suspicious but not strongly correlated with spider behavior the IP can be placed on a watch list for review and if the behavior does not appear correlated with spider type behavior then the IP address can be added to a whitelist . Whitelist also can be maintained by manual review. For example certain entities may source an abnormally high number of requests from persons or otherwise generate requests that are of interest to owners of the URLs. As such it remains desirable to inform the owners when such requests are made. Therefore known entities with these characteristics can be added to the whitelist. For example employment agencies and recruiters can be added to the whitelist and such manually added entries would take precedence over the automatic analysis in most situations. Further the whitelist can be consulted for a given IP prior to determination in some implementations.

However it may remain desirable to perform determinations according to the exemplary determinations and regardless whether a requester IP is on the whitelist or not. For example IP addresses may end up being used by different entities over time such that it may be desirable to watch for changes in behavior that may require review to be conducted again or blacklisting to be considered again . In some examples three requests by the same IP address on the same URL from any number of instances of that URL causes determination to flag the IP address for review which also can be viewed as a quarantine list while 8 clicks in 24 hours causes the IP address to be blacklisted . Similarly the same IP address requesting 20 different links with a relatively small period of time for example 24 hours or 12 hours triggers review or quarantining and if 30 more requests originate from that IP within a follow on period of time then the IP is blacklisted . By further example 40 or 50 requests for any combination of URL instances would result in blacklisting . The concept is extensible to IP address ranges that have common ownership or another reason why their behavior appears to be a federated or distributed spidering system. By having a larger number of links in the system many of which may be concentrated on different pages of social networking sites a large amount of request information can be collected and used to determine whether a given IP address is being used for crawling spidering.

Further a blacklist review process can be conducted such as on a schedule. In one example the blacklist is reviewed and entries that have not had recent activity are removed from the blacklist In one approach if spidering activity is not observed for a period of time e.g. 3 days 5 days 10 days for an IP address on the blacklist that IP can be moved to a quarantine list and after a further period of time elapses e.g. 3 days 5 days 10 days the IP can be removed from the quarantine. Thus the lists can be more dynamic than typical static lists of IP addresses from which spidering activity was once detected. Preferably however spiders are added to the quarantine and blacklists quicker than they are removed.

In some aspects an API can be provided by which an entity such as a third party can request information about whether a given IP address is considered a spider. A list also can be published with such information.

Example computer system may include a host Central Processing Unit CPU which may be implemented as a semiconductor containing one or more distinct microprocessor units commonly called cores to indicate distinctness but yet integration on a common substrate. Modern processors typically comprise multiple cores such as 2 4 6 8 12 or more cores. Host CPU also can be implemented with a plurality of physically separate microprocessor units disposed in separate sockets. Host CPU communicates with a chipset which typically includes memory bus logic and other interfaces to other functionality such as an expansion bus for supporting I O such as network traffic to and from network interface s mass storage e.g. hard drives as well as peripherals such as those that can be provided for a user interface . Example of such peripherals include a keyboard serial I O a mouse voice recognition inputs touch screen inputs and so on.

Chipset also may support connection of a display and therefore may include graphics logic for rendering content to be displayed. Such graphics logic may use main memory as video memory or a separate video memory may be provided. Where system is used for implementing end user computers a display is more likely to be included. Frequently if system is functioning as a server a display would not be provided.

Of course the example system is provided by way of example and not limitation as to what kinds of devices may be used in implementing aspects disclosed herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art may adapt the disclosures presented herein for use with a variety of devices such as smartphones tablet computers laptops and so on which may be implemented using components that are more or less integrated than those depicted herein and which may include more functionality or fewer functions than what is depicted in this example.

The separate identification of these components does not imply that the components are implemented separately. Also the usage of certain programming techniques and paradigms are by way of example rather than limitation and a person of ordinary skill in the art can provide equivalent approaches in providing embodiments according to these disclosures.

Although illustrated embodiments of the present invention has been described it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of these disclosures.

