---

title: Form completion rate enhancement system and method
abstract: A system and method for facilitating the entry by a user via a network, of information into a scaffold electronic document. A flag server modifies the scaffold electronic document to include user-entered information in a information entry field and displays a graphic flag at a next one of a succession of information entry fields.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09436668&OS=09436668&RS=09436668
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09436668
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101020
---
This application is related to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 253 778 filed Oct. 21 2009 entitled Improved Systems and Methods for Document Signing U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 827 filed on even date herewith entitled Document Signing Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 840 filed on even date herewith entitled Computer Form Action Zone Summary System and Method all of which are fully incorporated by reference herein.

The present system and method relates to systems and methods for facilitating the completion of electronic scaffold documents such as forms by signer users.

Businesses and individuals rely on legally executed documents in a variety of contexts from completion of complex forms used by governments and institutions e.g. insurance forms car loan and purchase forms and the like to simple contracts between individuals e.g. lease agreements wills and a host of miscellaneous arrangements with a range of contracts in between.

Documents signed by overnight envelope take a minimum of one day to reach the recipient and an additional day to be returned. Due to intra office distribution delays and recipients tendency to put paper documents in to do piles the average cycle time using overnight envelopes is 5 7 days. Documents signed by fax have an average cycle time of 2 3 days due to intra office delays procrastination of paper document tasks and fax machine mishaps. Faced with the burden of signing a paper document and returning it by fax scan or mail many recipients put it down on their desk and forget about it.

As a result users are increasingly turning to exchanging executed documents online. These documents not only include a field for including a signature such as the type described above but may be more complex to include additional fields that may require the signer to initial sign or take some other action. However in a large document signers may easily lose track of how many such fields they are required to complete i.e. sign initial fill with data and how many they already have completed. Thus when users of an online document exchange program encounter problems such as a signer not completing a document or a signer not understanding what actions are required they turn to customer support. This not only slows down the completion progress of a signing event but also increases the load on customer support.

For such complex electronic documents signer users typically are provided with limited guidance. The signer user is expected to use general navigation techniques such as scrollbars arrow keys tab buttons and the like to move from one information field to the next. Many users even in this age of computer technology are relatively unsophisticated with respect to navigating through electronic documents and relying solely on general purpose navigation techniques makes form filling a tedious lengthy process. This often is compounded by complicated and poorly designed forms. Thus there remains a need for a system and method to facilitate completion of electronic documents particularly complex documents with multiple information entry fields.

The present system and method is directed to facilitating completion of an electronic document via a signer user over the internet or similar network. Generally the present method is for facilitating the entry by a user of information into a scaffold electronic document wherein the scaffold electronic document includes content displayable to a user as text and or graphics on one or more pages. The electronic document includes n information entry fields associated with the user at one or more locations in the pages where n 1 and where the n information entry fields are adapted to receive information entered therein by the user.

The present system includes a document flag server that provides data representative of the scaffold electronic document and establishes an index i associated with the respective n information entry fields where 1 i n 1 where i has an initial value equal to 1 for the scaffold electronic document. The document flag server makes available over a network e.g. the internet or other available network for display to the user i the scaffold electronic document and ii a graphic flag displayable to the user in conjunction with the display of the scaffold electronic document with the flag being in proximity to the iinformation entry field. The flag indicates to the user that the iinformation entry field requires completion.

In response to receipt over the network of data indicative of entry by the user of information into the iinformation entry field the document flag server modifies the scaffold electronic document to include the user entered information in the iinformation entry field and increments the index i thus relocating the graphic flag to the next information entry field. These steps are iteratively repeated in succession until i n 1.

In alternative embodiments the flags are successively located in the document with increasing index i the flags are located in the document independent of the index i the flags are located in the document in a sender determined order or the flags are located in the document in a third party determined order. Thus although the flags may move sequentially through the document they may move to information entry fields within a document at a specified sequence. If there are multiple users of the same scaffold electronic document the sequence in which the flag moves from one information field to anther may differ for each user.

Generally the present system and method are directed to facilitating completion of an electronic document via a signer user over the internet or similar network. In particular the present system and method facilitates completion of a scaffold electronic document that includes multiple information entry fields which may include signature fields associated with signature entry pads which requires completion by a signer user.

As shown in with respect to the signing of an unsigned electronic document the present system includes a document execution server DES in communication with a document and authentication data storage device a document summary server and a document flag server . The document execution server is configured to receive over a network from a document sender a scaffold document that contains one or more information entry fields together with additional data representative of the identities of signer users who are to sign the electronic document and parties to be copied the envelope information .

As further shown in the system includes a document summary server is in communication with the document execution server and associated with a scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. The document summary server facilitates the entry by a signer user of information into one or more information entry fields in a scaffold document .

The system further includes a document flag server in communication with the document execution server and associated scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. Referring now to and the document flag server associates one or more flags with signature fields in an unsigned electronic document so that a signer user can easily identify where a signature or other information is required to be entered in the document. In an embodiment the document execution server obtains flag data from the document flag server and associates a visual flag in a location on the unsigned electronic document with the unsigned electronic document prior to sending the document to a signer user .

Additionally referring now to and returning now to the document execution server that server sends or otherwise makes available the unsigned electronic document with or without including an information summary indicator from the document summary server and or a flag from the document flag server to one or more signer users identified by the document sender . Once each target signer user completes all designated signature fields for that signer user the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into a partially signed electronic document . Once all target signer users have completed all designated signature fields the input is combined to generate a signed electronic document . The signed electronic document may be logged and stored in the document and authentication data storage device for future use of the target document signed electronic document is made available to each of the signer users and the copied parties.

The document execution server may send notifications to the document sender as well as other designated signer users indicating the progress of the signing activity. For example the notifications may identify signature fields in the electronic document still requiring entry of data by one or more of the signer users.

In an alternative embodiment the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into an unsigned web ready document having the same information and signature fields as the original document. Unsigned web ready documents are ready for dynamic entry of information into the signature fields by one or more signer users . This web ready conversion of the original documents may be achieved using standard conversion software and algorithms readily available and known to those skilled in the relevant art. For example a Microsoft Word Document can be opened in the OpenOffice Application exported as a PDF and then using pdf2swf from SWFTOOLS.org exported in Flash format which readily is displayable in most generally commercially available web browsers. In an alternative embodiment the unsigned electronic document is exported using similar tools into PNG files which are supported by commercially available web browsers and which technology is available in services such as DOCSTOC.com and SCRIBD.com.

After receiving the original unsigned electronic document and as applicable converting the document to an unsigned web ready document the document execution server makes available via a network either the original unsigned electronic document or the unsigned web ready document to a signer user together with an online signature entry pad associated with each signature field in the unsigned electronic document . In an embodiment the document execution server makes the unsigned electronic document available to multiple signer users either simultaneously or serially depending on instructions from the document sender or other external predetermined parameters and input. In an alternative embodiment the document execution server delivers the unsigned electronic document via an application programming interface API for access by predetermined signer users.

Alternatively also as shown in the document summary server may send a scaffold document via email or other electronic transmission to one or more signer users . The same scaffold document is made available to multiple signer users either in a web ready format via email via a link through an API or using other electronic means as may be desirable for each signer user as is the case with any unsigned electronic document.

In response to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users the document execution server generates a signed or otherwise filled in or completed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document and including the signature data.

In an embodiment the signed electronic document then is made available by the document execution server to all or a predetermined subset of the signer users and to the document sender for verification confirmation and other predetermined actions. In an embodiment the document execution server transmits the signed or otherwise completed electronic document in a locked form to a document and authentication data storage device .

As used herein a signer user may be the document sender or one or more third parties. In addition the term signature field as used herein includes entry fields for information or data that may include signatures signer name unique signer identifiers signature initials addresses or any other information that a document sender may identify as being acceptable forms of information for a particular signature field. For example in one real estate transaction document one signature field type may require entry of the signer user s full legal name another signature field type may require entry of the target real property address another signature field type may include date data and such.

In addition the term signature includes any biometric action by a signer user such as freehand motion using a mouse electronic pen touch screen or any other method for detecting and recording either temporarily or in a stored location graphics unique or capable of being associated with a particular signer user. It may also include iris or other eye scan data fingerprints vocal sound or voiceprints or other available biometrics. The freehand motion may either approximate electronically the signer user s traditional signature i.e. as performed with a pen or pencil on paper or may be a graphic that is quite dissimilar from the signer user s traditional signature.

In an embodiment the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields F . For purposes of this document we use the following definitions. With respect to signer users m number of users groups of user fields e.g. the number of participant signer users wherein 1

Individual fields are represented as Fis the field j for U Pis the page number on which Iappears Iis the actionable link to bring Fto the viewport for example if Fis offscreen to a signer user clicking a link L will bring Finto the middle of the user screen and make the field active for input by the sender user and Zis the visual indicator of next Ito be completed by the signer user. Thus 1

Upon receiving a scaffold document from a document sender the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields where 1 i m and establishes a subgroup index jfor the igroup of information entry fields Iof the respective m groups where 1 i m and where 1 j n wherein i and jfor the iuser have initial values equal to 1 for the scaffold electronic document and i and jhave maximum values equal to m and nrespectively for the scaffold electronic document. The document summary server makes available over the network a version of the scaffold document to one or more signer users . The scaffold document is displayable to each signer user to allow the signer user to identify the information entry fields . As used herein the term information entry field has the same meaning as signature field however for purposes of clarity the term information entry fields is used in reference to scaffold documents and the term signature fields is used in reference to any unsigned electronic document.

The flowchart of further illustrates an embodiment of the present method. As shown a document sender accesses the document execution server via a network such as the internet. The document sender then uploads the original electronic document to the document execution server DES . The document sender then indicates the name and contact information of each signer user each entity that will receive a copy of either the unsigned electronic document and or the signed electronic document and any order in which the signature fields contained in the subject document are to be completed by the designated signer users. The document sender also indicates at this time the locations of signature fields within the unsigned electronic document together with instructions regarding which signer user is required to complete which corresponding signature field. With multiple signer users different signer users generally are required to complete different signature fields as well as different signature field types. For example in a real estate transaction the buyer may be required to provide a signature a personal address and a date whereas an escrow agent may be required to provide a signature a license number and financial information.

As shown in in an embodiment the document execution server prepares a web ready version of the original document. The document execution server also may generate thumbnail displays flags or other indicia associated with the various signature fields for easier review by the signer user and a more expedient signer user completion of the designated signature fields.

Turning to once the document execution server receives the original document together with the additional document information from the document sender the document execution server follows the signing order instructions sent by the document sender. For each designated signer user the document execution server in effect prepares an unsigned electronic document associated with the original document and a signature entry pad for each signature field. All such information regarding the signer user and instructions related to the document are collectively referred to the envelope of the electronic document. Additional envelope information may include data associated with the identity of the signer user such as email address IP address SMS address facsimile number or other electronic forms of address or identification. This envelope is integrally associated with the original document and as such remains part of the associated electronic and web ready versions of the same document as such are generated by the document executive server.

In an alternative embodiment an API user such as another internet based device is the document sender which submits the original document and the associated signer user copied users signing order signature field locations and signature field authorizations to the document execution server. In an embodiment the API user receives delivery of the unsigned web ready documents on behalf of the designated signer users.

Once the unsigned electronic document is prepared the document execution server delivers an internet link code or embedded HTML via a network to the designated signer users. The network includes SMS email facsimile and other available technologies for distributing data. At a proximal time the document execution server in effect transmits the unsigned electronic document to the signer users. The document execution server may deliver updates of the event to the document sender and other designated entities to be copied on such transmission. In this manner the document sender can begin to track the progress of the document as the designated signer users complete the signature events.

Once the link code embedded HTML or other contact is made by the document execution server to a signer user that signer user then accesses the unsigned electronic document by following such link returning to the website interface for the document execution server interacts with the embedded HTML code from the API user or otherwise opens the unsigned electronic document. The document execution server locates the unsigned electronic document together with its associated envelope information and presents the same to each signer user.

As continued in the signer user views the unsigned electronic document and enters the information requested in each of the signer user s respective signature fields. Information is entered into the signature field by the dynamic online signature entry pad associated with each signature field. Signature entry pads are dynamic fields that appear on the GUI to facilitate signer user entry of information required for the associated signature field. Such information may be entered using a touch pad mouse touch screen voice entry and other technologies generally commercially available.

Upon receipt of the entered information the document execution server creates a graphical representation of the signature field input received from the signer user. The document execution server then or at desired times in effect combines the graphical representations with the unsigned electronic document to generate a signed electronic document to define a signed event. In parallel with receiving the signature field input from the signer users and with generating each signed electronic document the document execution server delivers updates on the progress of the signing events to those entities identified as cc or copied entities as well as to the document sender. Once all signers have completed signing the document all graphical representations of all signature field input received from all signers is combined into a single signed document.

In alternate embodiments and as shown in the document execution server then delivers a copy of the signed electronic document to each of the designated or selected ones of the signer users associated with that document. In an embodiment the document execution server optionally locks and stores a copy of the signed electronic document or may send a copy to a document and authentication data storage device for storage. In an embodiment the document execution server generates authentication data associated with the signed electronic document. Such authentication data may be data incorporated into the signed electronic document it may be part of the document envelope or may be some additional data used only for authentication purposes.

In an alternative embodiment of the present method in which a document summary server is used and referring to once the document summary server receives a scaffold electronic document and m groups of information entry fields the scaffold and fields Fthen are displayed to a user U. The display step includes displaying a visual representation of steps to go representing F C and I . Such visual representation may be permanent dynamic representations such as text appearing at the top or side of the screens or user selective representations such as text appearing in pull down menus on the screen. Alternatively such visual representations may be in the form of dynamic graphical displays such as a thermometer type graphic a numerical button or other graphic countdown display color displays such as red buttons representing incomplete information entry fields and green buttons representing completed information entry fields. On receipt of data for F i.e. the jfield for the iuser the user receives an updated display with the steps to go indicator iteratively adjusted to reflect the number of information entry fields remaining to be completed and or the number of information entry fields completed.

In alternative embodiments the flags are successively located in the unsigned electronic document with increasing index i or are located in the unsigned electronic document independent of the index i. In an embodiment the flags are located in the document based on an order predetermined by a document sender or document envelope information provided by the document sender to the document execution server. Alternatively the flags are located in the document based on an order determined by a signer user or a third party.

In alternative embodiments the flags for Uand Umay all appear in the same document where the flags associated with Uare a different color or shape than the flags associated with U. Alternatively the flags for Uand Umay be the same color but the flags may be specific icons associated with the respective signer users.

In an embodiment having a document with multiple signature fields the flags may be dynamic such that they move from signature field to signature field as the signer user completes each field. In another embodiment a page with multiple signature fields may include several flags indicating simultaneously all signature fields on the page. Then when a signer user completes a signature field the associated flag disappears all flags disappear once all signature fields in the unsigned electronic document are completed by the signer user . In a scaffold document the flags may be different graphical colors or shapes to indicate different information entry fields . For example flags associated with information entry fields requiring name data graphically appear as blue flags flags associated with information entry fields requiring date data graphically appear as green flags and the like.

In an alternative embodiment of the present method the scaffold document is one selected from predetermined template documents created by third party entities or the administrator of the present method and stored in the document execution server for use by customer document senders via API. In such an embodiment as shown in a document sender or an application used by a document sender requests a list of template electronic documents. Such template documents have predetermined signature fields which are not generally changed or changeable by the document sender. An example of such an embodiment would be form lease agreements or other standard forms.

Upon receiving the request the document execution server delivers via API a list of available templates to the sender user. The sender user application selects a template. Upon receipt of the sender user template choice the document execution server performs document package pre process . This pre process generates a document ID associated with the template. It is possible that many document ID s are associated with each template and each unique document having an assigned unique document ID likely will have a unique envelope. The API then delivers the merge fields and roles associated with the envelope for the designated template. The sender user application provides merge data information relating to the signer users and other information and data required for the designated template. In this example the template is the unsigned electronic document identified and discussed above. The document execution server processes the unsigned template document in a manner similar to that described above and sends links via email to each designated signer user. Each designated signer user provides the information required for each signature field. Upon receipt of all signature field data such data is incorporated into an unsigned template document and the document execution server locks the resulting signed electronic document as described above in further detail.

At that point the signed electronic document may be stored in a document and authentication data storage device and copies of the signed electronic document sent at and to the document sender at and others as designated by the document sender at

In alternate embodiments sender users select a template unsigned electronic document from a website from the user s own library or from secondary sources. Alternatively the step of processing the document is followed by an API delivery of embedded signing codes. In an alternative embodiment all communications between the document sender and the document execution server or between the document execution server and one or more of the designated signer users is via email facsimile SMS and other electronic communications methods generally available.

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include flag data to successively identify to each respective signer user the signature fields in that unsigned electronic document which required data entry. This flag data typically is removed when the document execution server combines the unsigned document and graphical representations of signature field data to create the signed electronic document.

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to or contemporaneous with delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include summary data represented by an information summary indicator associated with the document to assist signer users identify the locations of signature fields in the electronic document. Such information summary indicator is presented in a side menu to the document appears visually on the same page as a signature field or is presented anywhere on the visual periphery of document pages. The information summary indicator includes such indicators as the total number of signature fields in the subject document the number of signature fields that have been completed the number of signature fields remaining to be completed or any combination of such data. Alternatively the information summary indicator is presented graphically as a bar as buttons as text as color indicators e.g. red for incomplete signature fields green for completed signature fields and the like. In an embodiment the information summary indicator is static by presenting location identification data e.g. page paragraph information associated with each signature field or by presenting the total number of signature fields contained in the subject document. Alternatively the information summary indicator is dynamic changing as the signer user completes each signature field.

Turning now to this series of screen shots shows an exemplary embodiment of the present system and method. shows a start up home screen for a website using the present system and method. Note that the sender user is prompted to Choose a Document name the People Involved aka signer users and enter a document Description. In the sender user viewing this screen selects a NDA document from a selection of available template documents. The document sender may also import a self generated document or select a document from another source as available.

Although these screen shots show one implementation of the present method and system there are many variations on the specific systems used software programs and languages used and layout and design used in implementing the present method and system within the scope of the claims.

The present method and system can be practiced in a number of variations including variations on workflow. In an embodiment some information entry fields are identified as being required to be completed whereas other fields are optional. In an embodiment the workflow order is adjusted in accordance with the type of document to be completed the number and nature of the signer users involved and other variations based on the preferences set by the document sender . In one such embodiment the document sender is a set workflow order requiring one signer user to complete one or more information entry fields before certain other identified signer users. The document summary server may include workflow order restrictions for an unsigned electronic document requiring iterative serial actions. For example a document sender may instruct that signer user Ucomplete information entry field F followed by the completion by signer user Uof information entry field F before signer user Ucompletes information entry field F and so forth until all information entry fields are complete.

In a more simplified embodiment the document summary server assigns a workflow order that requires a first signer user Ucomplete all information entry fields F prior to the document being sent to another signer user U. In another embodiment the document summary server requires that each signer user complete the information entry fields in a predetermined order for example for signer user U F THEN F and the like.

Alternative embodiments include various forms of exclusivity. For example information entry fields may be shared by one or more signer user such that either signer user may complete one or more designated information entry fields. This may be done on a per field basis or for all fields in an entire document. In another embodiment information entry fields are shared by one or more signer users such that each signer user individually completes a designated information entry field and the information provided by each such signer user is concatenated to complete a single information entry field.

Alternative embodiments of the present system and method include variations on graphical updating of the summary data represented by an information summary indicator . In another embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately to the user U. In another embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is NOT updated immediately to the user U. In another embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately for future users i.e. U.

In alternative embodiments of the present system and method some Fmay have default values that cannot be modified by a sender user for example Date information entry fields may automatically fill with the current date. In an alternative embodiment some information entry fields have default values that can be modified by all or certain identified signer users. Alternatively some information entry fields may be filled using a merge function with data selected by the user signer. In another embodiment some multiple Fare completed by information input only one time by the signer user for example a single signature event then is automatically input simultaneously into potentially many Fidentified either by a signer user or the document sender.

Further alternative embodiments include displaying to each signer user different types and amounts of information relating to a scaffold document . For example the screen display of an unsigned electronic document may include the total number information entry fields F and the number of complete information entry fields C but not the total number of incomplete information entry fields I for a specified document. Alternatively the screen display of an unsigned electronic document includes the total number information entry fields F and the number of incomplete information entry fields I but not the total number of complete information entry fields C for a specified document.

In another alternative embodiment the screen displays the page numbers Pon which the next incomplete information entry field Iappears.

In an alternative embodiment the display for a display screen on which the scaffold document or the unsigned electronic document appear includes a conventional moveable window that is slidable over the display of the unsigned electronic document to makes available for viewing only that portion of the document underlying the region of the window. An alternative of such an embodiment includes an actionable link Lis displayed to bring the next information entry field to the viewport. Alternatively an actionable link Lis displayed for the incomplete required information entry fields I. Alternatively a visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry fields Zis displayed for incomplete required information entry fields I. In yet another alternative the visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry field Zis displayed for Iand includes an actionable link to bring the target information entry field into the viewport for example the visual indicator is an arrow on one side of the display screen which arrow is clickable.

In addition an alternative embodiment includes various ways of displaying to one or more signer user what information is entered by one or more of the other signer users. For example the information summary indicator may display to one signer user which information entry fields are completed by the other signer user and which remain incomplete. In this embodiment for example the completed information entry field by one user Cappears as a green box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to a second signer user whereas an incomplete information entry field by one user Iis displayed as a red box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to the second user.

The various methods described above may be embodied in and fully automated by software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer storage device or devices hard disk storage solid state RAM and the like . The steps may be implemented using any type of computer storage device or devices and using any type or types of data repositories relational databases flat files caches and the like to store any data.

As will be appreciated various combinations of the features and methods described herein may be incorporated into a given system according to the invention. Accordingly all combinations of the disclosed features and methods fall within the scope of this disclosure.

Although this invention has been described in terms of certain embodiments other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art including embodiments which do not provide all of the benefits and features set forth herein are also within the scope of this invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is defined only by reference to the appended claims.

