---

title: Automated plumbing, wiring, and reinforcement
abstract: An apparatus may include a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material. The element may be one of: a reinforcement member for a structure being constructed; a segment of a plumbing pipe; an electric network component; and a tile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08029258&OS=08029258&RS=08029258
owner: University of Southern California
number: 08029258
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100820
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 249 319 filed Oct. 10 2008 entitled Automated Plumbing Wiring and Reinforcement by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 040 602 filed Jan. 21 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 452 196 issued Nov. 18 2008 entitled Automated Plumbing Wiring and Reinforcement by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis which is based upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 537 756 entitled Automated Construction Using Extrusion filed on Jan. 20 2004 by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 040 602 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 760 963 filed Jan. 20 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 153 454 issued Dec. 26 2006 entitled Multi Nozzle Assembly for Extrusion of Wall also by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis. The 963 application is based upon and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 441 572 entitled Automated Construction filed on Jan. 21 2003 by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis. The entire contents of all of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. application Ser. No. 11 040 602 is also related to contemporaneously filed U.S. application Ser. No. 11 040 401 filed Jan. 21 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 641 461 issued Jan. 5 2010 entitled Robotic Systems for Automated Construction by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis and U.S. application Ser. No. 11 040 518 filed Jan. 21 2005 entitled Mixer Extruder Assembly by inventor Behrokh Khoshnevis. The entire contents of all of these applications are incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. 9634962 and 9522982 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Constructing homes offices boats and other structures has an ancient heritage. Despite all of the centuries of development however there can be difficulties and problems.

Construction is usually very labor intensive. Even a modest size structure usually requires the efforts of numerous individuals. This can be very costly. Simultaneously using the time of numerous individuals in an efficient manner can also be challenging.

The results of the construction effort can also be inconsistent. The appearance and quality of one structure can vary from another built from the same design. This can be caused by differences in the skills efforts supervision and techniques employed by those that work on the structures.

Construction may also result in wasted material. For example when wood is used standard off the shelf lengths must often be cut to meet design requirements resulting in waste.

Construction using manual labor can also be very time consuming requiring months and in some instances years to complete.

Construction can also be hazardous. Many construction workers are killed or seriously injured at construction sites including about 500 000 in the United States alone.

A multi nozzle assembly may include a first nozzle configured to extrude material through a first outlet a second nozzle configured to extrude material through a second outlet and a third nozzle configured to extrude material through a third outlet the third outlet being between the first and second outlets.

A construction method may include simultaneously extruding a first layer of two spaced apart rims. After extruding the first layer of rims a further layer of two spaced apart rims may simultaneously be extruded each directly or indirectly on top of one of the spaced apart rims in the first layer along with a first layer of filler between the first layer of two spaced apart rims.

A wall may include a set of spaced apart rims each comprised of a stacked set of separately extruded layers and a filler between the rims comprised of a stacked set of separately extruded layers.

A robotic system may include a movable gantry robot and a nozzle assembly movably coupled to the gantry robot. The gantry robot may include an overhead beam extending between and supported by at least two side members slidably mounted on a pair of rails. The nozzle assembly may be coupled to the overhead beam of the gantry robot and may be configured to extrude material through an outlet. The robotic system may further include a position controller configured to control position and movement of the gantry robot and the nozzle assembly.

A construction apparatus may include a movable gantry platform having a cross member extending between and slidably mounted across a pair of opposite side members. A nozzle assembly may be movably coupled to the cross member and configured to extrude material through an outlet. A lifting mechanism may be configured to controllably lift the gantry platform to a height sufficient for the nozzle assembly to extrude a layer of material on top of a previously extruded layer of material.

A mobile robotic system may include a movable robotic base an articulated robotic arm extending from the robotic base a nozzle assembly coupled to a distal end of the robotic arm and configured to extrude material through an outlet and a material feeding system mounted on the robotic base and configured to feed material to the nozzle assembly.

A mobile robotic system may include a motorized wheel assembly a nozzle assembly coupled to the motorized wheel assembly and configured to extrude material through an outlet and a material feed system mounted on the motorized wheel assembly and configured to feed material to the nozzle assembly.

An apparatus may include a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material.

An apparatus may include a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly and a painting mechanism attached to one end thereof the painting mechanism configured to controllably paint a surface of extruded material in accordance with a desired specification.

A three dimensional structure may include a set of spaced apart rims each comprised of a stacked set of separately extruded layers a filler between the rims comprised of a stacked set of separately extruded layers a plurality of conduits defined at least in part by the spaced apart rims and the filler and one or more elements installed within at least some of the conduits. The elements may include reinforcement members segments of a plumbing pipe and electric network components.

A method of installing tiles may include manipulating a robot to induce the robot to apply a layer of adhesive material on a surface of material extruded and shaped by a nozzle assembly and operating the robot to cause the robot to pick up one or more tiles and to deposit the tiles at desired locations over the layer of adhesive material.

A mixer extruder assembly may include a hollow cylindrical chamber and a hopper connected to the chamber. The chamber may include an outlet port at a lower end thereof and a fluid inlet port. The hopper may have an input port configured to receive input material therethrough. A piston drive shaft having a piston attached at one end may be rotatable about a drive shaft axis that is coaxial with the cylindrical chamber. The piston may have one or more mixer blades coupled thereto and rotatable therewith. The piston be controllably rotated about the drive shaft axis after input material received through the input port of the hopper is delivered into the chamber causing the mixer blades to rotate and mix the input material with mixing fluid introduced through the fluid inlet port of the chamber. The piston may also be slidably movable from an upper end of the chamber toward the outlet port of the chamber so that the mixed input material is extruded through the output port of the chamber.

A method of mixing and extruding material may include providing powderized material to a hopper connected to a substantially cylindrical chamber transferring at least some of the powderized material from the hopper to the extrusion chamber introducing mixing fluid into the extrusion chamber and rotating a piston within the chamber about a drive axis that is coaxial with the cylindrical chamber. The piston may have one or more mixing blades coupled thereto and rotatable therewith so that the rotation of the piston causes the mixing blades to mix the powderized material with the mixing fluid. The method may further include moving the piston from an upper end of the chamber toward an outlet port of the chamber so that the powderized material mixed with the mixing fluid is extruded from the chamber through the outlet port.

Although shown as cylindrical the shape of the nozzle may vary. It may include an inlet for material in a fluid or semi fluid form.

Referring again to the height of the trowel may be controlled by the trowel position controller which as explained above includes the servo motor and the trowel linkages and . The height of the trowel may be adjusted to correspond to the height of the extruded layer . By making the height of the trowel adjustable layers of different thickness may be extruded.

Although the smoothening surface of the trowel and the underneath surface are illustrated as being flat other contours may be used instead.

Any type of material may be used and delivered into the inlet including cement or plastic. The material may be delivered in a liquid or quasi liquid form and may include or receive additives or may have characteristics that cause the material to harden into a solid after extrusion.

As is apparent from an examination of the nozzle assembly may be moved horizontally in a back and forth motion each time being elevated in height by approximately the thickness of each extruded layer. The collective effect is to create a wall consisting of a stacked set of separately extruded layers.

The horizontal direction of the nozzle assembly at the end of a pass may be altered by 90 degrees into the direction . This can produce an extruded wall that has a sharp right angle bend. Obviously other types of changes in direction may be used to create other wall shapes including curved walls and walls that join one another at angles other than 90 degrees.

A trowel may be used to smooth the material that is extruded from the exterior outlet while a trowel may be used to smooth the material that is extruded from the interior outlet . The height of the exterior trowel and the interior trowel may in turn be controlled by trowel position controllers and respectively.

As shown in a first layer of a wall may be extruded by moving the nozzle assembly in a horizontal direction and by extruding material only through the exterior nozzle and the interior nozzle . During this pass no material may be extruded from the central nozzle .

This approach may cause an exterior rim layer and an interior rim layer of material to be extruded. Since no material is being extruded during this pass from the central nozzle no significant force will be placed on the interior walls of the rim layers and .

The rim layers may then be left to cure and thus harden. Various approaches such as thermal and chemical may be used to speed up the curing process. For example a torch hot air blower or microwave energy may be attached to the nozzle assembly not shown to treat the extruded material and speed its curing. A judicious choice of material may also be made for the rims that cures quickly such as plastic.

As shown in another rim layer may be extruded on top of the rim layer that has hardened. This may consist of a second exterior rim being extruded on top of the first exterior rim and a second interior rim being extruded on top of the first interior rim . A first filler layer may also be extruded between the first rim layers and by extruding material from the central nozzle at the same time that the second rim layers and are being extruded. The filler may be of a much stronger material such as cement. The filler material may or may not dry as quickly as rim material.

If the rim layers are able to cure quickly enough and if their length is long enough the nozzle assembly may be able to return to the beginning of a pass to extrude the next layer of rims on top of the previous layer as soon as extrusion of the previous layer is complete. If the curing is fast enough the nozzle assembly may instead be directed to extrude its next layers of material during the return traverse. Other sequences could also be followed including a rest between traverses.

The process may be repeated until the height of the wall reaches the needed level. illustrates the wall with six layers. After the last needed rim layers are extruded the next pass may extrude only a filler layer thus completing the wall structure.

Delaying the extrusion of filler layers helps insure that the rim layers will be strong enough to contain their neighboring filler layers. Of course the extrusion of each filler layer need not always or even ever be exactly one traverse behind the extrusion of each neighboring rim layer. In other embodiments the filler layers might be two or more layers behind the neighboring rim layers. Indeed none of the filler layers might be extruded until after all or at least several of the rim layers have been extruded and hardened. In this embodiment the entire wall filler or at least a large portion of it could be extruded in a single pass.

Material to be extruded may be delivered through outer tubes and . Each of these outer tubes may contain within them a set of inner tubes one channeling material to the exterior outlet see and the interior outlet see while the other channeling material to the central outlet see . In this way the type of material that is delivered to the exterior outlet and the interior outlet may be different from the material that is delivered to the central outlet .

In another embodiment each outer tube and may include three interior tubes allowing a different type of material to be delivered to the exterior outlet and the interior outlet as well.

As also shown in and partially in the nozzle assembly may include an orientation control mechanism that can cause the outlets and to be pointed in almost any direction. Any type of control mechanism may be used including a control mechanism that is capable of orienting the outlets in one two or three degrees of freedom. With respect to the nozzle assembly shown in the figures an orientation control mechanism has been selected that allows the outlets to be oriented in three dimensions. The orientation control mechanism may include servo motors and each controlling a separate axis of orientation. Of course appropriate internal structures may be included to translate the motion of these servo motors into the necessary movement. In certain embodiments positioning information may be sent back to a servo controller not shown and used in one or more feedback loops to maximize the accuracy of the positioning that is obtained. Appropriate material channeling chambers and gaskets may also be included not shown to ensure that the material continues to flow without significant leakage in the moving joints regardless of the angular orientation that is directed. The nozzle assembly may itself be moved around by a XYZ positioning system thus providing 6 degrees of freedom to the nozzle head.

Although nozzle assemblies having only a single or three nozzles have thus far been illustrated it is to be understood that a different number of nozzles could be used depending upon the application such as two four or even more.

As shown in a nozzle assembly includes an exterior nozzle having an outlet an interior nozzle having an outlet and a central nozzle set consisting of two nozzles and having outlets and respectively that are separated by an opening . illustrates how the opening ensures that the nozzle assembly does not collide with reinforcing members or during operation.

Servo motors and may be used to control the height of the trowels and respectively. A servo motor may be used to control an internal gate valve not shown that is used to regulate the flow of material to the exterior nozzle . Similarly a servo motor may be used to control an internal gate valve not shown that is used to regulate the flow of material to the interior nozzle . The flow of material to the central nozzle may also be regulated in a similar or different manner.

When making a curved wall the rim material delivery rate may be different for the exterior and interior outlets. This may be effectuated by appropriate settings of the servo motors and . The valve may be near or away from the nozzle. The gate valves may be configured to controllably adjust the volume of flow as well as to completely cut the flow off.

A servo motor may be used to control the height of the central nozzle with respect to the external nozzle and the internal nozzle . The heights of the external and or internal nozzles may also be controlled in a similar or different manner.

Sensors not shown may be inserted within a structure being constructed to provide feedback regarding construction performance. After the structure is completed these sensors may continue to be used to report on information about the structure such as heat humidity and deformation.

In one embodiment of a nozzle assembly the nozzle assembly may include a roller that follows the extrusion and creates textures on the walls of the layers that are extruded.

A broad variety of construction applications may advantageously utilize one or more of the nozzle assemblies that have now been described.

For example a nozzle assembly may be attached to an arm of a robotic system. Under computer or other control the nozzle assembly may extrude the walls of an entire building including several rooms. A gantry system may be used to support and position the nozzle assembly as it traverses the needed paths. A positioning system may also be used to accurately position the nozzle assembly such as a system that includes fixed reference points and a laser rangefinder mounted on the nozzle assembly.

The robotic system may include a position controller that controls the position and movement of the gantry robot along the rails as well as the position and movement of the gantry platform and the nozzle assembly . The position controller may include a position sensor that senses the position of the nozzle assembly and an actuator that controllably moves the nozzle assembly to a desired position in response to the output of the position sensor . The position sensor may be a laser rangefinder for example illustrated schematically in although any other position detection device known in the art may be used. Three reflectors installed on fixed poles installed at the construction site may provide fixed reference points for the laser rangefinder .

The laser rangefinder also called a lidar or a laser tracker may be a laser device that can accurately measure the distance to an object by sending out light to the object and analyzing the light that is reflected scattered off of the object. The range to the object may be determined by measuring the time for the light to reach the object and return. The laser rangefinder may include 1 a transmitter not shown that generates laser light and transmits the laser light toward the reflectors 2 a receiver not shown configured to receive the transmitted light that is back scattered from retroreflectors at the reference points 3 a photodetector not shown configured to detect the intensity of the light received by the receiver and 4 a data acquisition system not shown effective to compute the distance to the object by making time of flight measurements i.e. by measuring the time required for the light to reach the object and return.

A material feed system that is configured to feed material to the nozzle assembly may be coupled to the gantry robot . The material feed system may include a container configured to store material and an articulated feeding tube configured to feed material stored in the container to the nozzle. The material may pumped in a premixed form by the ground based articulated delivery arm by analogy to conventional concrete pump systems. In the latter case the articulated delivery arm may be passive in which case it may be rigidly attached to the gantry platform i.e. the connecting member between the delivery arm and the gantry platform may be rigid. In this configuration the gantry robot delivers the necessary force to move the feeding tube. An excessive opposing force may be exerted in this case however due to the inertia of the possibly high mass of the material feed system.

In an alternative arrangement the material feed system may have its own active drive mechanism controllable by a joystick not shown . In this embodiment of the robotic system the gantry robot may activate the joystick and the material feed system may follow the gantry robot. In this master slave control setting the material delivery arm should not be rigidly connected to the gantry robot because the delays and imprecision involved in positioning would necessitate a flexible connection between the gantry robot and the material delivery arm to compensate for the positioning lags and errors.

Due to large size and potentially high weight of the members of the robotic system as well as the acceleration deceleration in motions a considerable flexing may occur in the gantry robot. It may thus be difficult to maintain an accurate position for the nozzle assembly. To correct for such flexing and other positioning errors of the nozzle assembly a second adaptive platform with a highly responsive servo system may be attached to the gantry platform .

To build high rise structures a robotic system may use a lifting mechanism that controllably lifts the gantry platform to a desired height. illustrate a perspective view and a top view respectively of one embodiment of a construction apparatus having a lifting mechanism to build high rise structures. In the embodiment illustrated in several cranes that lift the gantry platform by means of cables may be used. The construction apparatus may include a movable gantry platform having a cross member that is slidably mounted across a pair of opposite side members and extends therebetween. The gantry platform may be supported by the cables extending from the cranes .

The lifting mechanism may be configured to controllably lift the gantry platform to a height sufficient for the nozzle assembly to extrude a layer of material on top of a previously extruded layer of material. The cable lift mechanism which may be performed successively after a specified number of layers are constructed may perform coarse positioning in the vertical direction by causing the cables to collectively hoist the gantry platform to a desired height. The nozzle assembly may have its own Z motion control for a limited range. The illustrated cable lift mechanism may lift the nozzle assembly layer by layer and in constructing each layer the nozzle assembly may adaptively compensates for cable positioning inaccuracy.

The main gantry platform may have an extension platform that holds the material concrete batch beams plumbing modules etc. and can be accessed by a robotic manipulator that rides on the same main platform and that is connected to the nozzle assembly . Material on the main platform may be periodically replenished by means of elevators not shown or conventional construction cranes.

In the beginning of the construction process when there is no building structure to anchor against the gantry platform may rigidly rest on the ground. The initial lower section of the building may be constructed by means of elevating the nozzle by its own vertical motion control mechanism. When the highest limit of the motion control mechanism has been reached the cable lifting system may be activated. By this time the constructed building section may provide stiff support to the suspended gantry frame be means of wheeled attachments and described above.

The support metal tubing sections which may be visually unappealing on the constructed building may be cosmetically covered by plastic plugs or permanently plastered or cemented closed. Leaving the metal tubing sections reusable may facilitate other automated systems such as painting systems window washing systems and robotics emergency rescue systems. The frame lifting approach disclosed here thus has general applications and is not limited to construction of structures using extrusion by a nozzle assembly.

In one embodiment of a robotic system a plurality of nozzle assemblies may simultaneously be employed instead of one large gantry system and a single nozzle assembly traversing the layers of the entire structure. illustrates another embodiment of a construction apparatus having an overhead gantry platform that includes a plurality of cross members . To build large structures such as apartment buildings hospitals schools and government buildings the overhead gantry platform may extend above the width of the large structures. Two sets of cranes each riding on rail tracks laid alongside the structure may be used to lift the platform. The platform may be equipped with multiple cross members each holding a nozzle assembly and a robotic manipulator coupled to the nozzle assembly. Each cross member may be slidably mounted across a pair of opposite side members for beam installation plumbing etc. .

The side cranes may move infrequently and stop at a selected positions while construction takes place at those positions. While the side cranes are stopped at a given position and the gantry platform is held at the given position all necessary construction under the platform may be performed for several layers. The platform may then be moved by the side cranes to the next position and the construction may be resumed. This cycle may be repeated until completion of the large scale structure. For very large structures multiple crane gantry platform assemblies may be used concurrently.

In another embodiment of a robotic system mobile robotics may be used. illustrates one embodiment of a mobile robotic system having a movable robotic base and an articulated robotic arm extending from the robotic base . The mobile robotic system may use a conventional joint structure and be equipped with material storage containers and delivery pipes. A nozzle assembly may be coupled to the distal end or the end effector of the robotic arm and can be lifted by the robotic arm to a desired height above the robotic base . The nozzle assembly can thus reach from the ground level all the way to the top of a wall. A material feeding system may be mounted on the robotic base and may be configured to feed material to the nozzle assembly .

The nozzle assembly may include a nozzle configured to extrude material received from the material feeding system through an outlet and a trowel configured to shape material extruded by the nozzle . Because of the imprecision involved in positioning an adaptive fine positioning platform equipped with a global sensing mechanism e.g. a laser tracker may be used for nozzle positioning.

If the robotic arm could be made of a rigid structure position sensing at the end effector may not be necessary. Instead a position sensor may be mounted on the robotic base . The position sensor may be a laser tracker for example. In this configuration the mobile robot does not engage in construction while in motion. Once it reaches a desired predetermined post it may anchor itself by extending solid rods not shown from the bottom of the mobile robot . Then the mobile robot may start the fabrication process picking up from the last point of fabrication while at the previous post.

Instead of using a single mobile robot that controls a single nozzle assembly a plurality of nozzle assemblies may simultaneously be employed. Each may be attached and controlled by the arm of a small mobile robot dedicated to that nozzle assembly. The mobile robotics approach may have features such as ease of transportation and setup scalability in terms of the number of robots deployed per project and possibility of concurrent construction where multiple mobile robots work on various sections of the structure to be constructed.

In another embodiment of a robotic system a mobile robotic system may be equipped with a motorized wheel assembly. illustrates an embodiment of a mobile robotic system that is equipped with a motorized wheel assembly . The mobile robotic system includes a nozzle assembly coupled to the motorized wheel assembly and a material feed system including a container and a delivery arm mounted on the motorized wheel assembly and configured to feed material to the nozzle assembly . The material feed system may include a container and a feeding tube .

The robotic system fills the container of the material feed system by stopping at one or more filling stations pre installed at the construction site adjacent to a wall to be constructed. The robotic system may be powered by a electric line battery or an on board gas generator. The configuration illustrated in may be well suited for long walls such as fences or factory and warehouse walls.

Rigid horizontal members may be used to facilitate the construction of windows door openings and ceilings by bridging openings beneath them. To create a window for example the controller of a nozzle assembly may turn off the flow of material to all outlets in the nozzle assembly when the nozzle assembly is traversing an area that has been designated as the window opening. After the top of the walls surrounding the window have been extruded a rigid horizontal member may be placed across the top of these walls to create the header of the window. One or more continuous layers of material may then be extruded on top of the header and the surrounding walls. A similar bridging approach may be used to create door openings. A ceiling may similarly be created by placing a series of neighboring structural members across the top walls of a structure over which material may be extruded to give strength to the structure.

One or more of the robotic systems described above may also be used to place these structural members where needed i.e. across the tops of window and door openings and across the tops of wall structures to provide a roof.

A variety of techniques may also be employed in an automated fashion to reinforce the strength of walls that are extruded. These techniques may include the automated insertion or embedding of clips across or within the rims of the walls periodically along their length. These reinforcement mechanisms may also include the insertion of rigid vertical members within the interior of the wall including in certain embodiments rigid horizontal links between these vertical members. Again all of this may be accomplished under automated robotic control.

As shown in the robotic arm may insert the reinforcement staples onto rim material that has just been extruded in order to further secure the positional accuracy and strength of the rim material. The material for the staples may be made out of a metal strip or a composite strip which unrolls from a reel and is cut and shaped into the final form by a mechanism installed on a gantry platform shown previously which holds the nozzle assembly .

As shown in a two dimensional mesh may be built for walls by first imbedding rigid vertical members at equal distances and building a wall rim on their sides using a nozzle assembly as previously described. Several layers may be built by the nozzle assembly to cover one layer of the mesh. A first set of rigid vertical members that includes an external threaded portion may first be inserted on an extruded layer leaving the threaded end of the first vertical member uncovered. For each successive mesh layer a second set of rigid vertical members may be screwed by a robotic arm on top of the vertical members previously embedded at the lower mesh layer.

As shown in after assembling each two rigid vertical members a rigid horizontal link may be inserted in the corresponding holes on the base of the vertical elements. The wall fabrication by a nozzle assembly may then continue and the process may be repeated for the next mesh layer once an adequate height has been reached.

As shown in the rims of the column are then constructed using a single orifice nozzle assembly as shown in the in this disclosure.

As illustrated in the hollow space between the rims may be filled with filler material e.g. concrete and the process may continue for the subsequent layers.

Other types of reinforcement structures and methods may be used. For example simpler reinforcement modules and or robotic welding may be used instead of screwing methods. Welding may not require as much alignment precision as needed for attaching the reinforcement elements by screw action.

Plumbing may also be installed as part of the automated process. Segments of plumbing pipe may be secured to other segments using automated installation and welding techniques.

In the illustrated embodiment the inside or outside rim of each pipe segment may be pretreated with a layer of solder. The ring shaped heater element may heat the connection area and melt the solder. Once the alignment is made the heater element may bond the two pipe segments together. The heater element may use for example a nichrome wire coil which is electrically activated. Alternatively it may use a gas burner or other types of heating mechanisms. The robotic arm configuration illustrated in may be suitable for pipe segments having a substantially vertical and straight configurations. The robotic arm may have a hollow tubular shape and include an inner barrel. The pipe segments may be fed through the barrel of the robotic arm from a feeding magazine.

In the previously described plumbing methods plastic tubing may be used instead of copper tubing. When plastic tubes are used glue may be applied to the joints prior to connection. Automatic glue dispensing systems may be used in assembly operations.

The exposed sections of pipes having an upward opening may normally be positioned under the walls which would later be constructed using the extrusion nozzles described earlier. Over each exposed pipe section a conduit may be constructed and a pipe section may be periodically added to the plumbing network after a predetermined number of wall layers have been built up.

After placing each pipe segment within a conduit a foam that cures quickly may be injected in the conduit when using the foam injection method for aligning pipe segments. Once cured the foam keeps the pipe segments in position and facilitates alignment when adding successive pipe segments.

As another method by pre attaching a dissolvable porous cone to each pipe segment the alignment task may be greatly simplified. Once the plumbing is completed running water through the pipes would dissolve and eliminate the cones . The cones may be made of harmless materials such as sugar.

Electrical wiring may similarly be installed as part of the automated process. Electrical wires may be housed in modules that are connected together within the walls again under robotic control.

As an alternative approach to layer wise painting the painting process may be performed after all the walls are completed and before the roof is made. If mobile robotic systems are used instead of overhead gantry robots then painting may be performed even after the completion roof construction. In the case of spray painting positioning accuracy of spray nozzle may not be crucial. In the case of roller painting a fixed pressure between the roller and the wall surface may be maintained by means of a simple distance or pressure sensor. In the case of inkjet printing the robotic end effector carrying the inkjet painting mechanism may include a fine global position sensing adjusting system e.g. a laser tracker. The robotic end effector may also include a sensor to maintain a relatively fixed distance between the inkjet print head and wall surface. For both roller and inkjet painting the end effector may conform to possible variations in the wall surface slopes.

A mixer extruder assembly may be provided in association with a nozzle assembly to allow the components of a fast curing material to be mixed near the head of the assembly.

Such simultaneous mixing and extruding may alleviate some of the difficulties of building structures with extruded paste material. One difficulty is that the material should cure fast enough to sustain the weight of material added at progressive stages but the material should not cure too fast because it may solidify inside the material storage and delivery systems such as tanks bumps extruders tubes etc. Conventional concrete pumping systems may usually deliver low viscosity concrete mix which is relatively easy to pump or extrude. The fluid state concrete may typically be poured in a mold which maintains the shape of the cured concrete.

When using the previously described nozzle assembly for construction typically no mold is used and therefore the extruded concrete should maintain its shape. This requires a high viscosity concrete paste which cures much faster than the low viscosity mix. One possibility is to use curing retardant chemicals to control the curing time. This however slows the construction process because it would require a period of time to elapse between the deposition of successive layers. The mixer extruder assembly may provide a solution by delivering concrete or other construction material in powder form near the nozzle head and then mixing and extruding the power material substantially concurrently.

The mixer extruder assembly includes a hollow extrusion chamber and a hopper connected to the extrusion chamber through a channel . The chamber includes a outlet port at its lower end and a fluid inlet port along a side wall of the chamber. The hopper has an input port configured to receive input material therethrough and an output port configured to eject exhaust material therethrough. In the illustrated embodiment the chamber has a substantially cylindrical configuration symmetrical about a cylinder axis . A nozzle head not shown may be connected to the outlet port of the extrusion chamber . The powder material may be delivered to the hopper using conventional conveyors or air as transporter. For example a closed circuit of flexible tubing may be used in which air circulates delivers powder material from a remote tank at the construction site to a hopper connected to the extrusion chamber . Upon arrival at the hopper a great portion of the powder settles in the hopper under gravity. When the hopper is full the arriving material may simply return to the source tank by means of the return tubing.

In the second stage shown in the middle of the piston is lowered just past the opening of the hopper channel thereby closing the chamber . At this point the metered mixing liquid is injected into the chamber through the fluid inlet port while the piston rotates and the blades perform the mixing and agitation. Agitation typically prevents concrete from setting.

In the third and rightmost stage shown in the piston is lowered further while in rotation to extrude the paste through the extrusion chamber outlet port and into the nozzle head not shown . When the chamber is emptied the piston is raised to the initial position leftmost stage and the cycle continues anew. The powder hopper may fill quickly while extrusion takes place. Two such mechanisms working in parallel and feeding into the same nozzle may provide a continuous flow of construction material in paste form. At the end of the operation the empties cylinder may be cleaned by flushing it with water coming in through the fluid inlet port while the piston rotates and reciprocates between the second and the third stages.

The extrusion mechanism described in conjunction with may have numerous applications outside the construction domain including but not limited to the food processing industry dental impression and material mixing and delivery.

As an alternative to the above described mixer pump mechanism single or twin screw pumps with mixing capability may be used with the nozzle assembly described previously.

By combining some or all of the features described above into a single system the vast majority of a sound and quality structure may be built according to custom specifications very quickly efficiently accurately and with few personnel.

Although now having described certain embodiments of nozzle assemblies robotic systems and automated construction it is to be understood that the concepts implicit in these embodiments may be used in other embodiments as well. In short the protection of this application is limited solely to the claims that now follow.

In these claims reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various embodiments described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. 

