---

title: Systems, methods, and software applications for providing and identity and age-appropriate verification registry
abstract: Systems, methods and software applications for providing an identity and age-appropriate verification registry. A system for providing an identity and age-sensitive information registry includes various modules. In one implementation, system may include a registration module configured to allow parents and their children to register an account with the registry; and a request processing module configured to enable third parties to query the registry to see if any individual is registered and has authority or consent to access age-sensitive content, products or services or share data that could become publicly available by the third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208337&OS=09208337&RS=09208337
owner: 
number: 09208337
owner_city: Woodbridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100922
---
This Application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 244 876 filed Sep. 22 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application generally relates to systems methods and software applications for providing an identity and age appropriate verification registry.

Children increasingly have access to many websites and online services that may require them to legitimately share personal data or may bring them into contact with inappropriate content commerce and or malicious adults. Alternately websites are emerging that are attempting to provide youth only communities which require some level of assurance that the registered user is a child.

In July 2006 the Federal Trade Commission FTC shared with Congress its concern about potential danger to children who visit social networking Web sites. In testimony before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation FTC Commissioner Pamela Jones Harbour said there is a need for social networking Web sites individually collectively and most importantly expeditiously to develop and implement safety features to protect children who visit their sites and empower parents to protect their children when they do so. Because the information that children post on their online journals web logs or blogs can be accessed by other Internet users social networking Web sites raise heightened privacy and security concerns. In particular sexual predators may use the information that children provide on social networking sites to identify contact and exploit them unless these sites are constructed to reduce access to this information or users themselves take steps to limit unwanted access. The social networking industry has a clear incentive to create a safe online community Harbour said.

To reduce that threat many websites and online service providers have attempted to or by regulation have been required to provide age restricted access. However this requires online operators of websites and services to determine the age of site visitors with reasonable assurance while staying in conformance with applicable laws. Typically this is provided via consent age agreements which users may select to indicate they are of certain age. Children though are savvy enough to simply disregard such precautions by lying about their age in order to gain access to restricted content or services. In addition predatory adults can easily claim to be children in order to contact and communicate with children.

The Children s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 COPPA 35 U.S.C. 1301 et seq. was passed by Congress to address the online collection of personal information by persons or entities under U.S. jurisdiction from children under 13 years of age. It details what a website operator must include in its privacy policy including when and how to seek verifiable consent from a parent or guardian for a child and what responsibilities an operator has to protect children s privacy and safety online including restrictions on the marketing to those under 13.

An email plus mechanism has been promulgated by the FTC which allows online operators to use email coupled with additional steps to provide assurances that the person providing the consent for the child is the parent. See 16 C.F.R. 312.5 b 2 . Such additional steps include sending a confirmatory email to the parent following receipt of consent or obtaining a postal address or telephone number from the parent and confirming the parent s consent by letter or telephone call. Operators who use such methods must provide notice that the parent can revoke any consent given in response to the earlier email.

However even this mechanism has not proved successful as children simply falsify age without the parent s knowledge. A website operator has little evidence if any to know otherwise or to investigate or act further.

Parents want to be able to selectively restrict their child s access to entire websites and or certain functions e.g. chat or posting images at an online service. Yet parents may have very few limits to control their children s access on the Internet. Website filtering and blocking software alone has not proved to be very successful. Moreover parents are concerned with their children providing personal information online or to other entities which may be made public.

According to an aspect systems methods and software applications provide an identity and age appropriate verification registry. The systems methods and software provide children parents and businesses powerful new tools to make informed decisions that ultimately protect children online.

There are a variety of reasons why parents want to restrict children from certain websites online content and online mobile services. Some content products or services may be wholly inappropriate for any child such as pornography tobacco and alcohol related sites illicit drugs etc. . Other content or online services which may not be appropriate for young children might be appropriate for older children adolescents and or young adults. Parents may be in the best position to determine what content is age appropriate for their children. Moreover parents want to restrict or limit their children s ability to provide personal information online or other data or to other entities which may be shared or become publicly available or worse to a predatory adult.

Businesses and other entities may also want or need to restrict access to certain Web content and online or mobile services advertising outbound marketing communication and social media. These may be based on company imposed restrictions based on terms of use parental restrictions and or imposed by law or regulatory requirements.

According to an aspect the system may provide tools that enable parents and businesses to determine whether children have attempted to defeat age restriction limitations. These tools may provide significant protection for a broad age range of children by giving parents and businesses a mechanism to provide identity and age information verification. As such harm to children may be prevented by restricting children from accessing age restricted websites content products or services. In addition businesses may be provided with reasonable assurance that children are not accessing age restricted content or services and or disclosing information that could be shared or become publicly available.

According to an aspect advertisers or marketers may have tools to verify identities and age so as to deliver age appropriate access content and advertising within the confines of social pressure and applicable regulations and laws. For instance pinging and scrubbing tools may be provided for user identity and age appropriate verification. This enables businesses to limit access to only age appropriate individuals thereby reducing inappropriate access and delivery of content and marketing materials to those under age. Pinging is to real time identify under age individuals. Scrubbing is to filter or remove under age individuals from a targeted audience.

According to an aspect a system may reside on a computer device such as a server for providing a real time identity and age appropriate verification registry which includes an application having a plurality of modules including but not limited to a registration module an identity and consent credentials module a parental management module a third party requestor module and a request processing module. The application may interface with one or more additional systems such as a registry database for maintaining parent and child information records. Various individuals or other parties may interact with the application via computer devices such as personal computer laptop computer Smart Phones PDAs etc. Users may include parents children other parties who may provide information used in the registration process and third party requestors seeking identity and age appropriate verification. For instance the system may enable a third party requestor to query or otherwise search the registry to determine if an individual is registered and if so provide a an indication to the requesting entity that the registered individual is of a sufficient age to access information of the requesting entity and or to disclose information which could be shared or become publicly available by the requesting entity and or b the age age range or date or birth of the registered individual to the requesting entity.

According to an aspect a registration module may be configured to allow parents and or their children to register an account and create a record with the registry. In one implementation a multi step registration method may require input and confirmation by parents and children or vice versa to minimize fraudulent registration. In some implementations the parent may override the child s decisions with regards to registration. In some implementations the child may be able to sufficiently identify themselves to create their own verified identity for access to age restricted communities and services. This may or may not require parental notice for registration. Individual accounts may include information for the registered individual such as for instance one or more identifiers of the individual for identifying the individual. This information may also include a date of birth or age of the individual for age verification purposes

A parent registration process may enable parents to create an account for themselves as well as for registering one or more children. Parents may be requested to provide identification information of themselves and one or more of their children. For security reasons and to prevent unauthorized users parents may have to provide one or more identity and consent credentials to verify who they say they are and they have authority to consent on behalf of the child. A notification may then be transmitted to each child identified letting the child know that their parent has requested he she the child to be registered. The child may have an opportunity to respond. For instance the child may confirm that the requestor parent is in fact his her parent and if so accept or decline to participate in the registry. A child s indication that the requestor is not his her parent may indicate fraud preventing the child from agreeing to participate and requiring further follow up. Parents may have an option to override their children s decision not to participate. In any event the child s decision is communicated to the parent.

A child registration process may enable a child to create an account and register subject to parental consent which may be through notice with the right to opt out or affirmative opt in. To register children may be requested to provide identification information of themselves and their parents. Registration may be subject to parental or third party approval in some instances. For example a school system may return an answer to the registry system e.g. real time or manually that authorizes the creation of a student based identity and age credential. In other instances a parent may later provide an identity and age credential on behalf of the child. A notification may then be transmitted to the parent identified letting the parent know that their child has requested to be registered. The parent may have an opportunity to respond. For instance the parent may confirm that he she is in fact the child s parent. For security reasons and to prevent unauthorized users parents may have to provide one or more identity credentials to verify who they say they are and that they have authority to consent on behalf of the child. A parent s indication that the requestor is not his her child may indicate fraud preventing the child from agreeing to participate and requiring further follow up. Parents may further have an option to allow their children to register. Alternatively parents may also have an option to override their children s decision and prevent their children from registering. The parent s decision may or may not be communicated to the child.

In some implementations the registration process may be initiated through a third party s website. For instance in creating or using an email account for a child the email provider may provide options to enable registration of the child. This may include a check box or link to initiate the registration process and to opt in for registration also.

According to an aspect age sensitive or age restricted online services and social networks may be provided with tools to compare registration attempts against the registry. The system may analyze attempted registrations and cross references for matches against the various fields in the registry database. For instance the registry can take a purported date of birth or age of individual and compare it with a stored date of birth or age associated with the registered account for that individual. Thus if a child attempts to gain access to an age restricted website or other content site by falsifying his her age such attempts can be identified and thwarted. Moreover the child s parent or guardian can be notified of the child s action.

According to an aspect when an at risk registration is identified by the registry the registry returns to the participating website the associated age attribute and if applicable the requested parental override. The participating site or content provider can use that information to invoke its terms of use and its regulatory requirements e.g. COPPA requires parental consent for children under the age of 13 . If necessary the website may temporarily suspend the registration process and notify the registry provider. The registry provider would then alert the parent.

According to an aspect the tools may provide reasonable methods and techniques in light of existing technologies to ensure the third parties such as content providers and other entities that the parent is the actual parent or legal guardian of the child. This may be a sliding scale based on potential harm and fraud. For instance if purported child and or parent blocks access for the child to particular content and distribution of the personal information the restricted operator and or the third party may choose not to inquire further since it is unlikely that a parent or child would fraudulently attempt to block access to content and restrict distribution of personal information. Moreover blocking access to content and refusing to receive or distribute any personal information altogether without further inquiry errs on the side of caution.

On the other hand additional verification may be required when the parent and or child authorizes access to content or distribution of personal information. Indeed these situations may be a more likely potential for fraud as the purported parent or child may not necessarily be who they claim to be. For instance children could purport to be parents and or adults may purport to be children. To ensure against these situations additional identity verification may be necessary. The degree of additional verification may vary based on the circumstances and or potential harm to the child. The more identity verifications the greater the likelihood that the person is who he or she claims to be. Of course there may be a trade off in terms of information available timeliness and harm to child among other things. According to an aspect the registry operator and or third parties may decide what level of additional verifications may be taken. This may be discretionary on behalf of the registry operator and or third parties. The sliding scale may be implemented depending on the circumstances such as the specific content personal information collected applicable laws or regulations potential degree of harm etc.

According to an aspect third parties may accept the stored verifications for the parent or child from the registry. In some instance the requesting entity may request from the registry confirmation of one or more credentials as well as the methodology or techniques used for verification of the credential information associated with an individual. As such requesting entities can determine for themselves whether to rely on the verified credentials or to conduct additional inquiry. However a third party may commence with its own independent verification techniques and or request the registry operator to provide additional verification of credentials of an account holder. In some instances verifications from multiple third parties may be collected by the registry operator for later use.

According to an aspect parents may be given options i to provide consent for their child to be registered at the website view or access content or share personal information or ii to deny consent for their children to do so. As such online service providers and other businesses may have actual knowledge of parental consent and take action accordingly. This consent may or may not relate to the child s ability to deliver personally identifiable information. Of course even when consent is given the third party should still prevent the access to age sensitive content and or distribution of personal information to the extent necessary to avoid breaking the law. For instance a content provider cannot lawfully allow a child to access age restricted content even if the parent were to consent on behalf of the child. To reduce fraud one or more consent credentials may be required to confirm that a purported is parent can consent on behalf of a child.

According to an aspect a secure scalable and cost sensitive system which allows a parent or guardian to put organizations subscribing or non subscribing on actual or constructive notice of the need to protect or turn away from registration that data which may be associated with a minor child is provided. In some implementations the system provides tools that allow parents to alert third parties that their children are not to access or that they can access content or to provide personal information thereto with or without the prior inquiry by the third party. The system can send out notification to third parties for example.

According to an aspect the system may allow parents to manage their children s access to age restricted content products and services whether the age restriction is company imposed through terms of use parent restricted by overriding a company s terms of use or imposed through statutory or regulatory requirements.

According to an aspect the system may enable a user to check for the existence of a registered account without passing information from which the account can be extracted. This protects the security of the registered data as well as security of the membership information. In order to reduce the opportunity for fraudulent and or abusive registration of accounts as a minor child s account the owner of the accounts may first have to establish an account with the registry. In some implementations a third party requestor can request the parent contact information or confirmation of parent contact information for the purpose of processing its own consent with the parent.

According to an aspect the system may ensure compliance and or safe harbor within the context of COPPA. For example the system may allow parents and other custodial individuals the ability to proactively provide actual or reasonable knowledge to participating third parties that specific accounts have been identified as those of minors. The system may also provide individuals and companies with the ability to provide age and identity component verification as part of account service offering or registration processes.

In some implementations the system may also provide verifiable parental consent. Consent may be given by the parent for instance by electronic confirmation actual signature electronic signature or other consenting methods. Different consenting methods may vary accordingly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction i.e. by country state or city . In some instances signed consent may be compared to a stored signature for verification. Other consent verification techniques are also possible.

COPPA defines child as an individual under the age and limits its protection to children under the age of 13. However it will be appreciated that child as used herein is not to be limited to individuals under 13 and may include individuals under the age of majority age of consent drinking age or other age appropriate criteria generally associated with children e.g. above and below the age of 13 adolescents or young adults.

According to an aspect in certain situations the system may act in loco parentis in the place of a parent . For instance with the parent s consent the system may act as an agent or instrument on behalf of the parent. And in some implementations the system may automatically and actively protect children s interests online.

According to an aspect the system can notify third parties whether a child has attempted to obtain access to content or not or that a particular child should not be given access to the site. Such notification may put the third party on notice that this particular child user should not be given access to this site at all.

While the disclosed embodiments may refer to parent and child it will be appreciated that the systems methods and software may be used by parents guardians and or other responsible adults and other persons to provide prior authorization and consent on behalf of children to access age sensitive content products or services and or disclose personal information or other data or to other entities which may be shared or become publicly. available The registry may inform third party requestors of the parental authorization and consent on behalf of the child.

According to an aspect the system may accommodate both real time and batch processing of one or more requests.

These and other aspects of this disclosure as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. In one embodiment the structural components illustrated herein are drawn to scale. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not a limitation of the invention. In addition it should be appreciated that structural features shown or described in any one embodiment herein can be used in other embodiments as well.

The system may include an application having a plurality of modules including but not limited to a registration module an identity and consent credentials module a parental management module a third party requestor module and an identity request and age verification processing module . One or more of the modules and or the functionally thereof of application may be combined and or include additional modules.

The application may interface with one or more additional systems such as a registry database for maintaining parent records and child records .

Various individual or other parties may interact with application for instance using various electronic or computing devices as discussed below . These users may include parents children other parties who may provide information used in the registration process and third party requestors seeking identity and age appropriate verification.

Registry provider may maintain and or operate application . Registry provider may be an individual company or other entity. In some implementations registry provider or its agents e.g. employees affiliates contractors etc. may interact with the other individuals or parties discussed herein.

According to one embodiment the application may be software firmware created using any number of programming languages. Of course it will be appreciated that any number of hardware implementations programming languages and operating platforms may be used. As such the description or recitation of any specific hardware implementation programming language and operating platform herein is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting. The application may be stored on a computer or machine readable storage media having computer or machine executable instructions executable by one or more processors. Application may also be implemented as a programmable processor such as for example a field programmable gate array FGPA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC processor. Processors might also be virtual servers web services or so called cloud computing services. In one implementation the application may reside on a memory device of one or more electronic or computing devices. Such devices may include for instance personal computers laptop computers so called Smart Phones e.g. Apple s iPhone RIM s Blackberry etc. personal digital assistants PDAs tablet computers e.g. Apple s iPad and the like.

The registration module is configured to allow parents and or children to register an account or individual record with the registry. This may include initially creating an account and or updating and modifying account information. Both parent and children may each have a separate account but not required in all instances . The registration processes may be different for parents and children . These processes may be performed respectively by parent registration module and child registration module . To reduce fraudulent registration and unauthorized users a multi step registration process may be provided requiring information that may be needed from parents and their children or vice versa . Various communication means may be used to communicate by the registration modules and or transmit notification back and forth between parents and children.

The parent registration module may be configured to enable a parent to create an account i.e. parent record and register one or more of their children. Parents may create their own personal parental account which allows them to provide the registry with their children s personally identifiable information. A sliding scale of identity verification may be performed to improve the integrity and assurances of the service.

Parent registration data may include parental identification information and or notification information. Some information may be overlapping. Each parent account may include a unique identifier for each parent for uniquely identifying that parent. For instance the unique identifier may include or be associated with a social security number. This may include the entire social security or a part thereof e.g. the last four digits . Alternatively or additionally the unique identifier may also include a name a physical address machine address or identifier government issued identification number e.g. driver license or passport numbers email address user name login name telephone number instant messenger IM or social networking site screen names universal identity credential discussed below such as an i card etc. Custom identifiers are also possible similar to user names. In addition parental information may include a list of or more alternative or alias identifiers in addition to the unique identifier. Thus a parent may be located in the registry for instance by searching various identifiers.

Parental information may include but is not necessarily limited to one or more of name e.g. common name middle name surname marital status custodial status e.g. legal custody joint custody guardian etc. gender date of birth DOB children s names ages and other information relationship to each child registered e.g. mother father or guardian physical address es including home and or work photographs etc. Notification information may include but is not limited to address es phone number s including home work and or cell email address es or Instant Messenger IM or Social Network screen name s .

A parent also may create or edit an individual login PIN or password for securely accessing the system for themselves and or each of their children registered. Biometric information such as fingerprints might also be used. The system may allow for second factor authentication for security purposes. Additional security questions may also be requested for later verification and security purposes such as mother s maiden name if necessary.

Child registration data may include a child s identifying information and or notification information about the child. Some information may be overlapping. Each child account may include a unique identifier for each child for uniquely identifying that child. For instance the unique identifier may include or be associated with a school identification ID number code or a social security number. This may include the entire social security or a part thereof e.g. the last four digits . Alternatively or additionally the unique identifier for the child may also include a name a physical address machine address or identifier government issued identification number e.g. driver license or passport numbers email address user name login name telephone number instant messenger IM or social networking site screen names universal identity credential discussed below such as an i card etc. Custom identifiers are also possible similar to user names. In addition child information may include a list of or more alternative or alias identifiers in addition to the unique identifier. Thus a child may be located in the registry for instance by searching various identifiers.

Child information may include but is not necessarily limited to one or more of name e.g. common name middle name surname parents information siblings information gender date of birth DOB physical address es including home and or work photographs etc. Notification information may include but is not limited to address es phone number s including home work and or cell email address es or Instant Messenger IM or social network screen name s school name personal website URL etc.

In some implementations a child may create or edit an individual login and password for accessing the system. Biometric information such as fingerprints might also be used. Parents may be notified of their children s login and passwords and access or edit their children s contact or notification information. Also parents may have the ability to limit the ability of children to create or edit login and password.

More detailed identifying information could also be stored such as Internet Protocol IP router media access control MAC addresses and or other physical device address for computers and other electronics for which the parent and or child uses This may be entered by the parent and or child or automatically captured by the registration module . Use of the same machine s by a parent or child may be further used for identification and or verification purposes.

In some implementations registration module may require confirmation of certain parental or child information. For example the registering individual another register individual and or a third party entity may receive a notification or otherwise be prompted to provide confirmation during the registration process of the registering individual s personal information. The verifying entity may include for instance an individual person business company corporation partnership or any other organization. In some implementations as described below a parent may confirm a child s registration or vice versa . And in some instances the third party verifying entity may be a teacher a school or other educational facility a clergy member a house of workshop e.g. church synagogue temple etc. a relative or family member a friend a co worker an employer organizational group youth athletic league government agency police officer parole officer judge attorney doctor or nurse or any other person or entity who may know and or can vouch for the registering individual.

For example the registration module may be configured to generate a notification to an entity to confirm the identity the identifier the age the date of birth or other personal information of the registering individual during the registration process. In some implementations the notification may be provided by one or more of mail fax telephone e.g. cellular and or landline video link in person meeting email Instant Messenger IM text message social media and networking site messaging or other communication means.

To create an account i.e. child record for registering a child via parent registration module parents may be requested to provide identification information of themselves and one or more of their children. For security reasons and to prevent unauthorized users parents may have to provide one or more identity and consent credentials to verify who they say they are and they have authority to consent on behalf of the child A notification may then be transmitted to each child identified letting the child know that their parent has requested he she the child to be registered. The child may have an opportunity to respond. For instance the child may confirm that the person registering the child is in fact his her parent and if so accepts or declines to participate in the registration. A child s indication that the one attempting to register the child is not his her parent may indicate fraud or an authorized user preventing the child from registering and requiring further follow up. Parents may have an option to override their children s decision not to participate. In any event the child s decision may be communicated to the parent.

The child registration module may be configured to enable a child to create an account and register subject to parental consent or other third party authentication. To register children may be requested to provide identification information of themselves and their parents. Registration may be subject to parental approval. A notification may then be transmitted to the parent identified letting the parent know that their child has requested to be registered. The parent may have an opportunity to respond. For security reasons and to prevent unauthorized users parents may have to provide one or more identity and consent credentials to verify who they say they are and that they have authority to consent on behalf of the child. A parent s indication that the person attempting to register is not his her child may indicate fraud or an unauthorized user preventing the child from registering and requiring further follow up. Parents may further have an option to allow their children to register. Alternatively parents may also have an option to override their children s decision and prevent their children from registering. The parent s decision may or may not be communicated to the child.

In some implementations there may be a fee for registering a parent or child. Fees could be based per person e.g. child or person or a family plan e.g. two or more children . Additional fees could also be charged for maintaining registration of child. These could be charged on an annual basis or for longer intervals. Different fee structures may be provided.

In some implementations the registration process may be initiated though a third party s website. For instance in creating or editing an email account for a parent or child email providers may provide options to enable registration of the parent or child. This may include a check box or link to initiate the registration process and to opt in for registration also. Parents and children may alternatively or additionally register with the registry through another party . In some cases a telecommunications carrier email provider or social networking site may offer an option for its users to register with the registry database . A user might be able to register with that site and with registry database simultaneously or at different times. An application programming interface API form may be used for collecting data for example. Some or all of collected data may be forwarded to the registry provider for creating an account with and or updating an account with registry database . In other instances the another party may provide a portal link or other gateway to the registry database .

Registration information including parent records and child records may be stored in a registry database . Registry database may store parent and child account records and other identification data.

In one implementation parent records and child records may be stored separately yet linked. For instance one or more child records are linked to each parent record in the registry . In some instance a mother and father might have separate parent records that are linked to each other was well as to their children s records. Family records are also possible.

In one implementation registry database may be a relational database with a one to many and or many to many relationship for records. For instance unique individual records for children and parent may be stored in registry database and linked so that parent records are associated with their children s records . Similarly child records may be linked to corresponding parent records . In some implementations child records may also be linked to non related parent records or child records e.g. friends records or other records . Moreover other relatives such as a grandparent aunt uncle or step parent could be linked to a particular child and or parent.

Given the personal nature and sensitivity of the information being stored precautions may be taken to protect the integrity of the data and access thereto. These may include encryption authentication or other security measures as known in the art.

The identity and consent credentials module may be configured to enable parents or children to verify who they say they are and that they have the ability to provide consent for themselves or their children.

Notification may be provided to the parent to provide one or more credentials. Credentials may be one or more of identity based knowledge based control based and contextual based. The credentials may be provided both online and offline. The more credentials which are verified the greater the likelihood that parents and children are in fact who they claim to be. In some implementations the parent may provide attributes about themselves that the consent credential module then goes about verifying as a whole or attribute by attribute. The verification methodologies utilized may be implemented and delivered on a sliding scale of reliability and will rely on reasonable methods in light of available technology.

Identity based credentials are to verify the identity of a child or parent based on accurate and reliable information. These may include full or partial social security numbers SSN passport number driver s license number credit cards bank accounts etc. Identity based credentials may be readily confirmed by government agencies banks financial institutions credit bureaus e.g. Experian Transunion and Equifax etc. For instance SSNs may be verified via the Social Security Administration database passport numbers to the Passport Office and a driver s license number may be screened via a state department of motor vehicle agency which issued it. Legal custody information might be verified via court records or other legal documents e.g. birth certificates divorce decrees custodial orders wills etc . Physical identity credentials might also be considered including fingerprints and or other biometrics signatures voice samples photographs etc.

Knowledge based credentials may also be utilized for which only a parent may likely know the answers with respect to themselves and their children. This may include their children s schools children s teachers name s children s pastor priest or rabbi organizations their children are involved with e.g. boy scouts or girls scout troops . Both parents and children may also be able to generate security questions for the other to answer. These may be of a personal and or familiar nature for which only the other is likely to know. For example for a parent to answer what is the name of your daughter s favorite doll Or for a child what gift did you give dad for his birthday last year 

In some implementations for added security and assurance the parent may have to demonstrate control based credentials to prove they have control over their children. These may include showing control of a cell phone or email address being registered to a child. For example for the child s cell phone the parent may make a call using the child s cell phone to the registry provider which may confirm the parent s use on through a caller id function. Similarly for the child s email the parent may login to the child s email and send an email message to the registry provider which may confirm the parent s use. Other control means could also be used such as for example the parent providing a copy of a cell phone bill or a registry account holder texting a message to the registry from their cell phone.

Contextual based credentials may be used to confirm and or infer that the parent or child is who they purport to be. These may include but are not limited to considering physical connections timing and or informational content. Physical connections may include confirming that the computer or electronic address or number of a machine e.g. IP router MAC address etc being used by purported parent or child is one that is most often associated with that parent or child. In addition cookies or other electronic identity tracking means may be employed for tracking parents or children. Timing may also be considered. For instance online activity by a child in the middle of the night or during normal school times might be indicative that a user in not a young child. Emails or telephones calls from a work email or phone number during normal business hours associated with a parent record may be probative they are from the actual parent. Web activity and history may also be considered. For instance web browsing may be monitored. Alike age appropriate content which has been previously viewed by the child and consent to be a parent is not likely to raise suspicion. However new requests for age restricted content may cast suspicion.

According to an aspect the tools may provide reasonable methods and techniques in light of existing technologies to ensure the third parties such as content providers that the parent is the actual parent or legal guardian of the child. Likewise similar tools may be provided to ensure that children are actual children and not predatory adults. This may be a sliding scale based on potential harm and or fraud. For instance if the asserted or purported child and or parent blocks access for the child to particular content and distribution of the personal information the registry operator and or the third party might choose not to inquire further since it is unlikely that a parent or child would fraudulently attempt to block access to content and restrict distribution of personal information. Moreover blocking access to content and refusing to receive or distribute any personal information altogether errs on the side of caution. A notification for instance might later be sent to the parent or child to confirm the blocking.

On the other hand additional verification may be required when the parent and or child authorizes access to content or distribution of personal information. Indeed these situations may be more fraught with the potential for fraud as the asserted or purported parent or child may not be necessarily who they claim to be. For instance children could purport to be parents and or adults may purport to be children. To ensure against these situations additional verification may be necessary. The degree of additional verification may vary based on the circumstances and or potential harm to the child. The more identity credentials confirmed or verified the greater the likelihood that the person is who he or she claims to be. Of course there may be a trade off in terms of information available timeliness and harm to child among other things. According to an aspect the registry operator and or third parties may decide what level of additional verifications may be taken. This may be discretionary on behalf of the registry operator and or third parties. A sliding scale may be implemented depending on the circumstances such as the specific content the personal information collected applicable laws or regulations potential degree of harm etc.

Identity and credential verification may include various means. For instance the registry database may be queried to determine a match of a store credential. In other cases the registry system may provide video capabilities which interact with a video camera associated with the parent or child such as on a typical computer or smart phone. Thus the registry operator or its agent can visually see the parent and confirm his or her identity with a photograph on record . This may include a video link for video conferencing. Similarly the registry operator or its agent might converse via telephone to hear an adult voice or perhaps converse via email a chat application or other media to ask questions or make other inquiries. In person contact or visits between the registry operator or its agents and parent and or children may also be possible to verify identity and credentials. In one or more instances the identity and credential verification may be documented for quality assurances and for later auditing if requested .

Parental managing module may be configured to provide tools to enable parents to manage their children s access to age restricted products and services. For instance parents may select age appropriate content for viewing content categories and or particular sites for which their children may view and or share personal information. The system may thus enable a registered child to browse content based on the parental consent without further inquiry from either parent or child. Of course even when consent is given the third party should still prevent the access to age sensitive content and or distribution of personal information to the extent necessary to avoid breaking the law. For instance a content provider cannot lawfully allow a child to access age restricted content even if the parent were to consent on behalf of the child.

In addition parents may identify content and or specific Web or other online sites which they do not want their children to access. The system would block access to the registered child for this content.

Consent may be given by parent for children a priori for instance by electronic confirmation actual signature electronic signature or other consenting methods. Different consent methods may vary according from jurisdiction to jurisdiction i.e. by country state or city .

This may be in addition to whether an age restriction is company imposed through terms of use TOU parent restricted by overriding a company s terms of use or imposed through regulatory requirements.

Parents may receive notification of their children s attempts to register for websites and other online services once the child is identified by a third party and verified by the identity request and age verification processing module . Parents may allow or deny their children access.

In some implementations the system may post data. Some wireless carriers for instance may store age data but carriers do not know who is actually using the phones especially if there are more than one phone per account . As an example a parent may register a cell phone and the system transmits or pushes that information to the phone carrier so that controls can be updated on the carrier side. The wireless carrier can then filter content based on the parental control settings provided via the parental managing module . Parents thus would not have to separately go to the carriers sites to establish the basic account information including age . It may be also possible to allow a person to verify adulthood and push that information to the carrier so that content providers could ask for age verification based on the verified cell status.

In some implementations parental managing module may be configured to generate a universal identity credential used for authentication purposes Information Card i card an open ID or other common authentication protocol for identifying themselves and or for use by their children.

One way for a child or parent to create a unique identifier which may be used with the registry is by using an i card. I card technology is based on a set of network protocols e.g. WS Trust and security token data formats e.g. SAML 1.1 . These standards are the key to i card interoperability and have been made available on an open royalty free basis. Various commercial and open source i card software rely on these protocols to achieve interoperability. In June 2008 the Information Card Foundation was launched by leading implementers of i card technology including Microsoft Google PayPal Equifax Novell and Oracle.

I cards are enabled by an identity selector that may be integrated with a user s browser on their computer or mobile device. This selector acts as a kind of digital wallet holding a set of visual i cards. Both commercial and open source selectors are available today in versions compatible with Microsoft Internet Explore IE Firefox and Safari browsers and compatible with Microsoft Windows Apple OSX and Linux operating systems. The CardSpace selector ships with Microsoft Vista and has been available since early 2007. Other commercial selectors are available from Novell DigitalMe and Azigo.

Parents may be able to create an account for an i card for themselves and their children. The parent may create a set of records for each of their children. I cards may store detailed personal information for a child that is linked to the parent. These linked child records may include identifying information about the child such as name date of birth etc. The parent s account on registry not only provides the linkage between their own identity and that of their children but also provides a set of parental control pages that indicate at a coarse level what sites a particular child may enter and at a fine level what functions and or areas e.g. chat image galleries etc. the child may access within the site. A parent may choose to allow or disallow a particular type of function regardless of the actual site being accessed.

I cards may be issued and may be available to users for instance as downloadable links. A Token Service may be implemented that generates security tokens as requested by the selector when the user attempts to use the issued card at a relying site. Commercial Token Service offerings have been announced by IBM Tivoli and others.

Just as a browser can read web pages from any web server a selector can collect i cards. At each site the user may be authenticated and his her claims verified using whatever method that site chooses to employ. Once satisfied the site generates an i card that the user imports into their selector by clicking a download link.

In the case of the managed i cards it is important to understand that the card itself contains only metadata a description of other data not the actual claim values. The managed card is an XML document with elements that include the name of the card the background image of the card and the set of the types but not the values of attributes supported by the card and its associated token service endpoint. An i card could for example indicate that it supports the claim types of first name last name postal code and email address. More to the point the card might hold a claim type whose Boolean value is the truth of the statement that the card holder is less than 16 years of age.

Instead of relying on usernames passwords and form filling sites that accept i cards rely on digitally signed tokens provided by the user s selector. To request such a token the site displays an icon on the home page or any other page where data is needed . In one implementation the icon may include a small box with a small letter i position in the box. The box and text might be purple in color with the text being an italicized font. Of course it will be appreciated that any icon or indicia may be used for users to identify with an i card. Different shapes colors and fonts may be used for the icon or indicia.

When the user clicks on this icon their i card browser extension retrieves an HTML or XML description of the site s policy specifying the set of required and optional claims it needs. The browser then opens up the user s selector in a window showing only the card s whose set of supported claim types is the same set or a superset of the claims requested.

The user selects one of the cards by clicking on it and authenticates to the card as required e.g. by entering a PIN . The selector sends the authentication materials to a token service typically co resident with the data systems supporting the card issuing website . The token service returns a token that is signed using encryption keys derived from the SSL domains of both the relying site and the issuing site. The selector then POSTs this token to the relying site.

For example if the relying site had requested a Boolean claim as to whether the user was less than 16 years of age and the user selected a card that supported this claim type and the user was properly authenticated to submit it then the relying site would receive that Boolean value in a digitally signed token from the issuing site. By verifying the signature the relying site can now trust this assertion to the extent that it trusts the issuing site.

Websites and other online businesses may use the child s i card to allow or disallow access to pages and functions of the site.

If a social networking site were to become i card compatible the site would display the icon button at any page gating entrance to age restricted areas. When the child clicks on this icon the selector appears and the previously issued i Card will be displayed within it. If this is the first time an i card icon has been clicked on in the current browser session then the child may depending on security settings and preferences have to enter a master password before the selector window will appear. The child clicks on this i card and enters their personal PIN number to unlock it. If the parent using parental controls has designated that the child should have access to this area of the social networking site then the child may be granted access.

The parent s account on the registry not only provides the linkage between their own identity and that of their children but also provides a rich set of parental control pages that indicate at a coarse level what sites a particular child may enter and at a fine level what functions and or areas e.g. chat image galleries etc. the child may access within the site. Consider now the detailed sequence of steps when a child clicks on the i card icon on the hypothetical social networking site.

As described earlier on the backend system behind this icon is social website s policy describing the set of claims it requires in order for a visitor to enter. It may be assumed that there is a section of the site appropriate only for children less than 16 years old. Embedded in the page containing the i card icon would be a special object tag that contains a parameter whose URI would be age less than 16 .

After a child s selector displays the i Card and the child clicks on it and enters his PIN the selector requests a token from the token service associated with the card. We will assume that the WS Trust protocol is being used between the selector and the Security Token Service STS . The child s PIN number along with the set of required claims the relying site domain and other information is sent in a Request for Security Token RST message to the STS.

The STS may be linked with the account records of the registry. If this is the first time that the child has attempted to enter this section of the social Web site then the parent may be notified e.g. via email SMS or IM of the attempt. This notification will include a link to the parental control page for the child. The parent can choose to approve access to this site and specify permissions for specific areas or functions of the site. The parent s preferences and approvals along with the values of the age related Boolean claim are encoded as the values of the claims in a SAML token that the STS signs and returns to the selector as its Request for Security Token Response RSTR . The selector then POSTS the token to the social networking site where it is validated and used to allow or disallow access to pages and functions of the site. If parental notice and consent had not already been set up the original RST message would time out and the child would be told in a message box to try again later after his parent has had a chance to respond.

Of course it will be appreciated that use is an i card is merely one type of universal identity credential used for authentication purposes that may be used and that other such universal identity credential may also be used in keeping with the scope of the invention.

The third party requestor module may be configured to provide tools to enable one or more entities to verify identity and age appropriate information against entries in the registry database . The requesting entity may include for instance an individual person business company corporation partnership or any other organization. For instance an individual company or other entity may seek to know whether one or more persons are registered and whether registered persons are subject to an age restriction. This may be advantageous in particular for websites and other online content providers such as virtual worlds chat room social networking sites etc. Third party requestors may set up an account with the registry provider to request information.

Account manager may be configured to enable third party requestor to set up an account. Third parties account information may be stored in the third party account database which stores account information. Account information may include name and contact information of each third party requestor payment accounts age restriction policies etc. Other information may also be provided such as preferred output type for data. In some implementations a fee may be charged for registration verifications.

A billing system may be configured to monitor information requests and charge the third party s account accordingly. The fees may vary depending on the third party requestor information sought the complexity of the request the number of requests time to process data output types and or other contractual fee service basis. Other fees structures are also possible. Different payment plans may be provided for different users.

Subscribing members may have at least three ways to use the service 1 compare subscriber registrations against the registry on an as needed basis in substantially real time 2 batch process past or ongoing registrants or 3 with a push method to be processed by the subscribing client within their own operating environment.

The identity request and age verification processing module may be configured to provide identity and age appropriate verification registry to third party requestor having an account. This may include verification that one or more persons are registered and whether registered persons and that they are age appropriate.

For instance the system may enable a third party requestor to query or otherwise search the registry database to determine if a particular individual is registered. In some cases the third party requestor may provide an identifier for the individual which it has in it position. If the individual is determined to the registered in registry database the identity request and age verification processing module may be configured in some instances to provide a an indication to the requesting entity whether the registered individual is or is not of a sufficient age to access information a service or a product of the requesting entity and or to disclose information which could be shared or become publicly available by the requesting entity and or b the age age range or date or birth of the registered individual to the requesting entity.

Other information may also be confirmed and or verified. Verifiable parental consent or verified information may also be requested for an individual.

Requests may be made and processed electronically. Requests may be made in a suitable format for processing by request processing module . For instance requests may be formatted in Structured Query Language SQL or Extensible Markup Language XML for querying the registry database . Other processing may be provided to convert other query languages into a common format for processing. These may be important for batch processing. With a verification of an account processing may commence and the requestor billed accordingly. The third party requestor may provide data to compare to data stored in the registry database . In some instances transferred data may include hashed data using a known hash function for speeding up data look up and comparison and heightened security and privacy.

Of course requests may also be made by other means. For instance a requestor may contact the registry operator via telephone for confirmation. An automated or human operator may make a proper verified authentication of an account holder processing may commence and the requestors billed accordingly.

The third party requestor may request to determine that an individual is in the registry. For instance the third party requestor may have information regarding an individual such as for example one or more of a name phone number address email address IM screen name or Social Network screen name s . These may be compared with the registry database to determine a match. Of course the more fields compared the greater the likelihood that the individual is in fact registered. This may be a simple Boolean operation i.e. yes or no response . The third party requestor may require the registry operator to maintain information provided.

In addition to confirming that an individual is in the registry database the requestor may make a request to confirm that the individual is above or below a certain age. A third party requestor may or may not have the date of birth or age of a person registering. For instance the inquired age could be an age or majority e.g. 18 drinking age e.g. 21 user age range restrictions set by a content provider s terms of service TOS agreements e.g. over the age of 13 for many popular social networking sites or other age critical criteria such as for example driving age age of consent age for certain insurance premiums or rates etc.

Age verification may be determined from comparison of the purported age or date of birth with a stored age or date of birth for a registered individual. This may be a simple Boolean operation thus quickly confirming or disproving the purported age or date of birth which the third party requestor may have for the individual.

Although in some implementation the date of birth DOB or derivative information such as for example the number of days month years etc. above below a certain age may be returned.

Verification that parent data provided by the child to a third party requester is registered and verified by the registry operator .

Verification that a Parent has Given Consent for an Individual in the Registry Database to Access Site or Service Deliver Personal Data and or View Content.

A requestor may query the registry database to find out whether an individual has been given permission by a parent to view the content share information or participate in a service of their website. If so the identity request and age verification processing module may also provide verifiable parental consent. Website then can reasonably rely on the consent of parent to provide the individual access to its content or service or ability of the child to deliver personal information. Of course if the individual is in the registry database and no consent has been given or consent has been deny the website might choose to deny access to the individual of its content.

In some instance the requesting entity may request from the registry confirming of one or more credentials as well as the methodology or techniques used for verification of the credential information associated with an individual. As such requesting entities can determine for themselves whether to conduct additional inquiry. However a third party may commence with its own independent verification techniques and or request the registry operator to provide additional verification of credentials of an account holder. In some instances verifications from multiple third parties may be collected by the registry operator for later use.

Children might also identify themselves through the use of a verifiable offline or online ID. Depending on age and terms of use TOU from the verifiable ID provider the parent could then be notified. The registry provider may also provide the child with a verifiable online ID.

The various notifications may be transmitted by various communication means. In one implementation notifications may include an electronic link in an email that allows the receiver to link to a website associated with application .

In some implementation persons who believe they may were wrongly added to the registry can request the registry provider to be removed from the registry. If it turns out that fraud was committed the user s who did the wrong may be penalized e.g. account or registration cancelled and or the proper authorities notifies e.g. police FBI etc. .

As users and as especially children age they may grow out of the custodial relationship. In one implementation the system may recognize when a child becomes an adult and provide notification to the child with an offer to prove adult status by submitting a credential. Once the child does the child s account may be transferred to an adult status removing age restrictions and or parental controls. Parental controls could be removed after 13 and at different ages along the growth path. Meaning they would not necessarily have to be an adult to remain in the registry without parental control.

Application may reside on a server maintained by the registry provider . Server may host the application which may in some implementations require users to access the server over one or more networks A G or other connections to interface with and use the application . Registry database may be local to server or may interface with server for example via a network C.

In some implementations a user may download the software for interfacing the application from the server with program updates made available over the network or the Internet as needed or on a predetermined regularly scheduled basis. The application may be operated in a Microsoft Windows operating environment. However other operating systems and environments e.g. UNIX Java Linux and proprietary systems such as Apple Mac OS X are also envisioned.

In other implementations the application may be a plug in application that is incorporated into a third party software application or website applications. Other configurations may be also implemented. For instance application may plug in to a third party s website registration or other login and registration portals for creating accounts and accessing content.

Registry provider may be an individual company or other entity. In some implementations registry providers may provide data entry functions or other support. Registry provider may receive various communications from parents children third party requestors other parties etc. in a variety of means including electronic communication and non electronic communications. Registry provider may operate or be affiliated with a mail center or call center for automatically or manually processing mail email telephone calls or other communications.

A parent A may interface with application with one or more networked devices via networks A B. Networks A B may include local area network LAN wide area networks WAN the Internet or other data networks. Cellular and telephone networks may also be used. In one implementation device may be a personal computer PC at the parent s house or work and the network may provided by a broad band Internet connection e.g. cable fiber optics DSL or other network system . On the other hand device may be a cellphone or personal data assistance PDA cellphone which may provide cellular capabilities and or Short Messaging Service SMS such as text messaging via network B. It will be appreciated that other communication devices may be used such as telephone fax machine etc. Device networking may be provided via packet switched networks and protocols such as for example one or more of WiFi WiMax Internet Protocol IP v.4 IP v. 6 public switched telephone networks PTSN integrated services digital network ISDN etc. While wireless networks may be preferred for greater remote access it will be appreciated that wired systems might also be utilized. Some devices may be capable of connecting to multiple networks. Devices are not intended to be limiting.

Other non electronic communication methods may also be used by parent A. These may include for instance mail service via the U.S. Postal Server or similar carrier. Parent A might mail a registration form or consent information to registry provider who then enters the corresponding information into the registry database . Registry provider may send information to parent for instance based on the preference of the particular parent A. For instance one parent may wish notification to be sent via email while another parent may request notification by text message.

Similarly a child A may interface with application with one or more networked devices via networks D E F. These may include the same types of devices and networks which the parent may have used. A child A for instance may wish notification to be sent via email text message or instant messenger IM via devices respectively.

A third party requestor A may interface with application also. While not shown in other interested parties might similarly be connected to the application via network G. Parents and children may alternatively or additionally access application through the site of another interested parties .

The process begins in step . In step a registering parent creates or modifies an account record including parental identification information. Detailed instructions may be provided to the registering parent to input contact and notification information. Various data entries fields and or boxes may be displayed to facilitate data entry. For instance various identity providers may be provided as options for parent to facilitate data entry and authentication to the application . In some implementations a fee may be required for setting up an account and registering a child.

To minimize fraud or unauthorized users parental verification may be required and the parent is requested to provide an identity and consent credential. Verification of the identity and consent credential may include verification of a social security number account by a bank or financial institution verification of parent by a credit bureau verification or driver s license or verification of another worthy verifying parameter. In some implementations the parent may be given only a limited time to provide the credential such as within one day week month etc.

Next in step the registering parent identifies one or more children and includes child identification information. Again detailed instructions may be provided to the registering parent to input contact and notification information for a child. Various data entries fields and or boxes may be displayed to facilitate data entry.

In step each child identified by the registering parent is notified that he she has been identified by a parent and requests confirmation by child i that the requestor is parent and ii whether to participate opt in .

For instance the child may be prompted with dialog boxes such as Is this person your parent and if answered in the affirmative subsequently Do you wish to be registered The child may have the opportunity to confirm each via request via an input selection. The child s decision s are input in step . Other dialogs and requests may be possible.

Step Child indicates that the one registering child is not the child s parent. If so child may be i prevented from also accepting participation in step . Because parental status is questionable in this situation it may be indicative of fraud or an unauthorized user not parent . Further follow up action may be taken in step . For instance a notice may be provided to the child to notify his her parent immediately of the suspect activity and if there already is an account established for a parent of the child that parent may be similarly notified. In step a notification may be sent to the persons registering the child that the child was not registered.

Step Child confirms parent but indicates that he she does not wish to register. Thus the child voluntarily opts out. 

In such a case in step the parent may be immediately notified that the child opted out from registration. The parent may then have the option in step to override the child s decisions with proper verification of the parent s identity and consent credentials. If provided in step the child s decision is overridden and the child is registered. Of course the parent might respect the wishes of the child and the child will not be register in step .

Step Child confirms parent and indicates that he she the child wishes to register i.e. opts in . In step a registration account record may be created for that child. The child may also be given the opportunity to enter additional and or edit identifying information. In step the parent receives notification that the child opted in. The process ends in step .

The process begins in step . In step a child attempts to register by creating an account including child identification information. Registration may be subject to parental approval.

Detailed instructions may be provided to the registering child to input contact and notification information. Various data entry fields and or boxes may be displayed to facilitate data entry.

Next in step the registering child identifies a parent and includes parent identification information. In some instance alternatively or additionally the registering child may also provide information regarding one or more other parties which may be contacted during the registration process in order to verify information of the child such as identity or age. This could be a teach or school for example. Again detailed instructions may be provided to the registering child to input contact and notification information for a parent. Various data entry fields and or boxes may be displayed to facilitate data entry.

In step each parent identified by the registering child is notified that he she has been identified by a child and requests confirmation by parent i that the requestor is his her child and ii whether to allow the child to register opt in .

For instance the parent may be prompted with dialog boxes such as Is this your child and if answered in the affirmative subsequently Do you wish to have your child to register The parent may have the opportunity to confirm each via an input selection. The parent s decision s are input in step .

Step Parent indicates that the one registering is not child and that child is prevented from registering. Thus the child will not be registered in step .

Because the child s status is questionable in this situation it may be indicative of fraud or an authorized user. Further follow up action may be taken in step . And in step a notice may be provided to the child to notify his her parent immediately of the suspect activity.

Step Parent confirms child but does not allow child to register. Thus the parent has overridden the child s decision. In step the child may be immediately notified that the parent did not allow child to register. And in step the child will not be registered.

Step Parent confirms child and allows child to register. In step the child receives notification that the parent allowed the child to register. Next in step a registration account may then be created for that child. The parent may have the opportunity to set up a parent account and may have the opportunity to enter additional and or edit identifying information about themselves and the child. The process ends in step .

An individual in this case a child A may attempt to register at a third party website or other online content provider . During the registration process information may be requested from the child A.

The website may have no idea that child A might be too young to enter site or service or to view content or share information and or a parent may not want child to enter site or service. The child could for example provide erroneous age information.

The website s registration module may interface with application to make a request for verification against the registry database . Depending on the request by the website the identity request and age verification processing module of application may provide verification of an individual and or provide verification of age sensitive information for an individual.

For instance is the individual over or under a certain age This could be an age or majority e.g. 18 drinking age e.g. 21 or other age critical criteria. For instance driving age age of consent age for insurance premiums or rates etc. Age verification may be determined from comparison of the stored date of birth or age associated with a registered individual This may be a simple Boolean operation. Although in some implementations age age range the date of birth or derivative information such as for example the number of days month years etc. above below a certain age may be provided to the requesting entity.

In some instances third party requestor A may specifically inquire about an individual who purports to be an adult but could in fact be a child who falsified his or her age . If the individual is registered the third party requestor A may be able to confirm the identity and age of that individual via the identity request and age verification processing module of application . Moreover the requesting entity may be able to view identity and or consent credentials for that individual. The third party requestor A thus has a greater assurance that the individual is or is not an actual adult. On the other hand if after querying the registry the individual is not determined to the registered the third party requestor A may assume and or have some level of assurance that the individual is a not a child based on the assumption that a unregistered individual is likely not to be a child since a parent did not bother to register him or her . This may be referred to as no action level of assurance because the requesting entity pinged for an independent answer.

In other instances the third party requestor A may specifically inquire about an individual who purports to be a child but could in fact be an adult who falsified his or her age . This could be predatory adult who seeks access to children and or their personal information. If the individual is registered the third party requestor A may be able to confirm the identity and age of that individual via the identity request and age verification processing module of application . Moreover via the identity request and age verification processing module of application may be able to view identity and or consent credentials for the register individual. The third party requestor A thus has a greater assurance that the individual is or is not an actual child. On the other hand if after querying the registry the individual is not determined to the registered the third party requestor A may assume and or have some level of assurance that the individual is a not a child since a parent did not bother to register him or her . The third party requestor A may choose to block such individuals from accessing the site or content which may place that individual in contact with children or their personal information.

If the child A is verified to be registered in registry database the parental management module may also notify the parent A. Parent A can have knowledge that child is attempting to enter website unbeknownst to the child . If prior consent was previous given the parent A may not have to do anything further. However the parental management module may enable the parent A to allow or deny access to their child A. This information may be provided to the third party requestor A.

The third party website may have in some instances prior notification and knowledge to grant or block access to the child A from registering or access. Thus no additional inquiry via the identity request and age verification processing module may be necessary before doing so.

In some instances the parent may be adult i.e. over the age of 18 typically in most cases. However it will be appreciated that a parent need not necessarily have achieved the age of majority to have parental access use abilities of the system. In some other instances the parent might be a step parent foster parent legal guardian or other custodian on behalf of a child.

Moreover a child need not necessary be a minor child. For instance the child might be an adult but be disabled or have special needs e.g. mentally challenged thus still requiring parental help or supervision. Moreover the adult child may be living with and or subsiding with support of a parent and may be subject to parental rules nonetheless.

While the above disclosure has been described primarily with respect to a parent child custodial relationship and distribution and access to personal identifying and age sensitive information it will be appreciated that aspects of the invention may be used for other types of custodial relationships in keeping with the scope of the invention. For instance one party may seek to prevent harm to another party or parties by their access to inappropriate content for that person and or and possible sharing of personal information to a third party which could become public. Exemplary relationships may include for instance teacher student guardian ad litem ward employer employee clergy member parishioner adult elderly parent parole officer court designee felon especially registered sex offenders as well as other managerial supervisory custodial and or guardianship relationships.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the inventive concept will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the above disclosure and the following claims. The specification should be considered non limiting and exemplary only and the scope of the inventive concept is accordingly intended to be limited only by the scope of the following claims.

