---

title: System and method for measuring depolarization
abstract: An apparatus for determining the depolarization efficiency of a environment includes a transmitter, a receiver, and signal processing circuitry. A reference object is located within the environment at a reference distance. The transmitter includes a radiation source providing incident radiation that has an initial polarization as it enters the environment. The receiver receives returned radiation from the reference, which may be diffuse reflection or photoluminescence. The signal processing circuitry calculates the depolarization efficiency of the environment from the initial polarization, luminescence or final polarization, and the reference distance. A method of determining depolarization efficiency includes directing incident radiation having initial polarization through an environment onto a reference, detecting returned radiation from the reference, and calculating the depolarization efficiency using the initial polarization and the luminescence or final polarization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08269191&OS=08269191&RS=08269191
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08269191
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101105
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This application is related to application Ser. No. 12 940 240 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING THREE DIMENSIONAL INFORMATION FROM TWO DIMENSIONAL IMAGES invented by Ronald Meyers David Rosen and Keith Deacon and application Ser. No. 12 940 204 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING THREE DIMENSIONAL INFORMATION FROM PHOTOEMISSION INTENSITY DATA invented by Ronald Meyers and David Rosen both of which are filed on even date herewith and hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and apparatus to determine the depolarization of electromagnetic waves passing through an environment.

The present invention relates to the determination of the depolarization efficiency of the atmosphere using the dependence of photoexcited emission photoluminescence emission Raman scatter or diffuse reflection of a reference object. Raman scattering is the inelastic scattering of a photon. When light is scattered from an atom or molecule most photons are elastically scattered Rayleigh scattering such that the scattered photons have the same energy frequency and wavelength as the incident photons. However a small fraction of the scattered light approximately 1 in 10 million photons is scattered by an excitation with the scattered photons having a frequency different from and usually lower than the frequency of the incident photons. In a gas Raman scattering can occur with a change in vibrational rotational or electronic energy of a molecule see energy level . Chemists are concerned primarily with the vibrational Raman Effect. Depolarization efficiency is the fractional change in degree of polarization per unit length for electromagnetic radiation propagating through an environment such as the atmosphere. Measurement of depolarization efficiency would improve imaging of remote objects through environments. The environments include atmospheric environments and underwater environments.

Depolarization of scattered laser radiation has been measured remotely using depolarization lidar. Depolarization lidar has been used to study nonspherical dust particles in the atmosphere and multiscattering in clouds. In depolarization lidar measurements a laser beam is emitted from the lidar system passes through the atmosphere backscatters off an atmospheric particle and passes through the atmosphere again and is collected in a detection device in the lidar which determines its polarization state. The scattering processes that affect the depolarization measured by lidar include both forward scattering processes and backscattering processes. However the radiation that comes back to the lidar system has to be backscattered from an atmospheric particle at least once and the impact of this single scattering process may or may not be greater than the forward scattering processes that depolarize the laser beam. The depolarization of radiation in the atmosphere biases polarimetric sensors. The application of depolarization lidar would be extended if the forward and backward scattering processes could be separately determined.

Some methods that may discriminate forward scattering processes from backscattering process requires either a one way path for the laser beam or a well characterized reflector a known distance from the laser and receiver. Both types of measurements are biased by receivers more sensitive to one polarization state over the others.

One way methods have the disadvantage that both receiver and transmitter must be at a large distance from each other. Methods where the receiver and the laser are near each other have required a well characterized reflector and a known distance from the reflector. Well characterized types of reflector include retroreflector and dielectric mirror. However reflectors often have a bias for one polarization or the other because of their intrinsic birefringence. Birefringence is the decomposition of a ray of light into two rays the ordinary ray and the extraordinary ray when it passes through certain types of material.

Thus there exists a need for a method of measuring the polarization state of the laser beam unbiased by receiver and by reflector would be convenient for depolarization studies near the ground. For example the capability of distinguishing forward from backward scattering could be very useful in distinguishing the scattering of nonspherical dust particles from multiscattering of water droplets. There also exists a need for the ability to measure the forward scatter of a transmitter beam independently of the backscatter in real world environments.

A technique is provided that uses a photoexcited emitter i.e. photoluminescent or Raman scattering material with specular reflection to replace the reflector in methods where the laser and reflector are near each other. One advantage provided over conventional depolarization methods is that the photoemitted radiation is almost completely randomized. Therefore the polarization bias of the receiver cannot impact the measurements. Another advantage is that the photoemission radiance of the photoemitter can be varied with incident polarization without an optical element. Therefore optical elements that may have an uncharacterized birefringence are not required at the target.

An apparatus for determining the depolarization efficiency of an environment is provided where the environment is the atmosphere or water and includes a transmitter a receiver and signal processing circuitry for example a computer. A reference object or reference is located within the environment at a reference distance from the apparatus. The transmitter includes a radiation source such as a laser providing incident radiation that is directed to an incidence point on a reference. The incident radiation has an initial polarization as it enters the environment and the returned radiation photoemission radiance that varies with the polarization state of the transmitter beam near the target and just before it is incident on the reference. The transmitter illustratively includes a laser or lamp source inclusive of a polarizer or polarization modulator and optionally a filter that selectively transmits incident radiation. The receiver receives returned radiation from the reference and determines the radiance of the photoexcited radiation. The receiver includes a detector such as a camera and may also include an analyzer and a filter that selectively transmits the returned radiation of interest. The returned radiation may be diffuse reflection in which case the receiver may require a polarizer to filter out the specular reflection. The returned radiation may be photoluminescence including fluorescence or Raman scattering and optionally has a wavelength significantly different from the incident radiation. In this case the receiver optionally includes a filter that transmits the photoluminescence while blocking radiation at the incident radiation wavelength. The shape and optical properties of the reference object are known the distance between source receiver system and reference object are known but the depolarization strength of the environment between source receiver system and reference object are unknown and must be calculated.

The signal processing circuitry such as a computer is able to calculate the depolarization efficiency of the environment from the initial polarization final polarization and the reference distance. The circuitry receives detector data from the detector the detector data being correlated with the intensity of returned radiation. The apparatus optionally includes timing electronics to allow detector data to be correlated with initial polarization the timing electronics being in electronic communication with the polarization modulator and with the detector. The apparatus may receive the reference distance from an associated device with which the apparatus is in communication.

The reference is already present within the environment or may be introduced for inventive purpose. In one example an asphalt road could be a photoluminescent target that is already in the environment. In a second example a plastic target of known shape and composition could be introduced in the environment as a target for atmospheric studies. In either case the shape and orientation of the target is what makes the intensity of emission dependent on transmitter polarization state. The depolarization strength of the medium can be determined using the object distance the initial polarization of the incident radiation the orientation and shape of the object and the variation of the radiance of the received radiation with the polarization of the transmitted radiation.

The present invention has utility as part of a remote imaging method enabling the remote imaging method to compensate for image distortion associated with light passing through a distorting environment. A method is provided according to the present invention for measuring depolarization efficiency using a polarimetric stereo approach. A volumetric i.e. three dimensional object with known properties is acquired as a reference object or reference illuminated with an electromagnetic radiation source that is completely polarized and at a known distance from the reference and imaged using either photoluminescence or diffuse reflectance from the reference. The variations in radiance intensity at the receiver is measured and correlated to the polarization of the electromagnetic source. From the variations of emission radiance at the receiver the degree of depolarization between the electromagnetic source and the receiver can be calculated using the correlation. The depolarization efficiency is the fraction of polarized radiation depolarized in a unit distance.

An inventive method also is provided that uses the variations in pixel intensity to calculate the depolarization without any temporal variation of laser polarization. The detector is a camera where the intensity of received radiation is measured at each pixel. The polarization averaged intensity at each pixel is proportionate to the depolarization of the object at each corresponding object point where the transmittance at each object point is a function of both the polarization state of the incident radiation at the object surface and the angle of incidence at that object point. The three dimensional shape of the target is known so the depolarization of the surface of the reference object can be calculated at each point. The variations in radiance intensity at each pixel of the receiver is measured and correlated to the polarization of the electromagnetic source. The depolarization can be calculated by dividing the measured polarization of the return radiation by the depolarization of the surface. The distance averaged depolarization efficiency of the atmosphere between the object and the radiation source is found from the difference in degree of polarization between the radiation source and the object surface divided by the distance to the reference.

The geometric shape of the reference can be chosen to present a curved surface such as a circular cross section to the incident light source. For example the reference can be a cylinder. For a cylindrical reference the radiance values along the axis vary less with polarization than radiance values around the circumference. The composition at least of a surface layer of the reference can be chosen to present desired optical properties such as photoluminescence or diffuse reflection as described in more detail below.

An exemplary inventive apparatus for determining the depolarization efficiency of an environment includes a transmitter inclusive of a radiation source that provides the incident radiation and a receiver inclusive of a radiation detector. The radiation detector is optionally a laser and the transmitter optionally includes a polarizer a fixed polarizer or polarization modulator and the transmitter optionally includes a camera and an analyzer. An exemplary analyzer includes a fixed polarizer with a polarization transmission detection orthogonal to that of a fixed polarizer in the transmitter.

Apparatus and methods according to the present invention are readily used to determine the depolarization efficiency of an environment in which the reference is located. The incident radiation passes through the environment on the way to the object. Determination of environmental depolarization efficiency is critical to improving remote object imaging and tracking through the environment and as such has applications in satellite atmospheric and oceanographic imaging. In the case where the environment is the atmosphere the incident radiation is depolarized by atmospheric particles. Therefore if the shape of the reference is known independently of the photoluminescent image then the depolarization efficiency of the atmosphere between a polarized radiation source and the reference is calculated. The dependence of specular reflectivity on incident angle and polarization of the incident radiation is used to determine stereo information from radiation returned from the reference such as the photoluminescence emission intensity or diffuse reflectance . Apparatus according to embodiments of the present invention is also used to determine three dimensional shape information of remote objects and spectroscopic information relating to an object surface may also be also obtained.

In embodiments of the present invention a source of electromagnetic radiation with time varying differential polarization provides incident radiation that illuminates a remote object. Photoexcited emission i.e. photoluminescence Raman scattering or diffuse reflection is excited in the remote object and time variations in photoluminescence intensity or emission intensity are used to form an image of the object. The time variations in photoluminescence intensity allow stereo vision information i.e. three dimensional information to be determined for the object and can be used to calculate a surface height profile of the object from a single viewpoint. Photoluminescence spectra regardless of whether the spectra are excitation and emission based contain chemical information on the composition of points on the object. The difference between emission intensities at two polarization states divided by the time averaged emission intensity is sensitive to the three dimensional contours of the object. Therefore the radiance of emission measured at the receiver is sensitive both to the three dimensional contours of the object and to the orientation of the object.

The difference between photoluminescence intensities at the two incident radiation polarizations varies between one angle of incidence and another hence varies at different incident points on a curved reference surface. The polarimetric photoluminescence signal is a function of time variations in emission intensity. The difference in photoluminescence intensities at two polarization states divided by the polarization averaged photoluminescence intensity is designated the degree of polarization of the polarimetric photoluminescence signal. The degree of polarization of the polarimetric photoluminescence signal differs from the degree of polarization of emitted photoluminescence which describes the polarization of emitted radiation.

The specular reflectance of the object varies with the polarization of the incident radiation because incident radiation that is removed by specular reflection is not available to become photoluminescence emission as described in Miyazaki et al. Determining surface orientations of transparent objects based on polarization degrees in visible and infrared wavelengths J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 19 687 694 2004 . Hence the emission intensity is anti correlated with the specular reflectance due to radiative transfer related to the conservation of energy. Therefore if the incident angle is greater than zero but less than a critical angle and if the total intensity of incident radiation is constant in time this intensity of emission will vary with the polarization of the incident radiation.

The photoluminescence carries information on the three dimensional shape of the object because specular reflectance varies with incident angle as well as incident polarization. Surface curvature and changes in angle of incidence are thus embedded in the time variation of emission intensity. However if the three dimensional structure of the target surface and the distance to the target is determined a priori on a reference object the response of the photoluminescence to incident radiation can be used to determine the strength of depolarization of the medium i.e. atmosphere or water . Therefore if the object has a curved or bent surface the photoluminescence across the surface varies with position. This invention concerns the use of polarization measurements in photoexcited emission or diffuse reflection to determine depolarization of the medium.

In the case of a dielectric reference the emission intensity varies with the linear polarization of the incident radiation. The Fresnel equations govern the specular reflectance of dielectric materials and indicate that the reflectance of s polarized radiation is greater than reflectance of p polarized radiation.

Signal processing circuitry is in communication with the polarization modulator and detector so that detected photoluminescence intensity is correlated with incident polarization. The detector is illustratively a camera producing an intensity image matrix for photoluminescence. Three dimensional data relating to the object may be shown on display .

The incident radiation I has time varying differential polarization P t where Pis an initial degree of polarization before passing through the environment and t is time and constant polarization averaged intensity. The incident radiation passes through the environment in this example the atmosphere where it is partially depolarized by atmospheric particles. The radiation incident on the surface of the reference has a degree of polarization P t y c where P t is degree of polarization on the reference surface t is time that the laser pulse is emitted and y is the distance between laser and surface.

The reference is preferably an object having a known shape such as a cylinder or sphere or other shape having a known cross section or a shape that may be approximated. The reference has a surface that produces photoluminescence on excitation by the incident radiation. For example the reference may have an outer layer such as a coating containing a luminescent substance. A laser radiation source operating at a wavelength that excites photoluminescence from the surface reference is well suited for this exemplary inventive methodology.

Photoluminescence emission is generated that has a radiance that varies with time and angle of incidence. The depth of modulation i.e. emission intensity for one polarization state of excitation minus the emission state for the orthogonal state of polarization is recorded by the system and depends on the angle of incidence and so contains information on the degree of polarization P t .

The time electronics stores the initial polarization P t and the fractional change in emission intensity P t and from this the total depolarization factor P Pis calculated. From the distance y over which the depolarization occurs the path averaged depolarization efficiency can be calculated. The path averaged depolarization efficiency is here defined as ln P P y.

The narrow band filters on source and camera both pass the wavelength and absorb other wavelengths. The path averaged depolarization efficiency can be calculated using the distance y over which depolarization occurs in the environment in this case between the radiation source and the reference. In this example the laser beam is fully polarized in the vertical direction. Diffuse reflection scattered radiation from the reference is imaged and filtered by the analyzer set orthogonal to the polarization of the laser. In this example the analyzer has a horizontal orientation out of the plane of the paper so that the specular reflection is blocked. In this context an analyzer is a polarizer within the receiver. From the variation of intensity of the diffuse reflectance on the image the polarization state of the incident radiation can be calculated. Using the polarization state on the object and the distance y between object and source the depolarization efficiency can be calculated.

A technique using the following mathematical procedure can be applied to the examples shown in and . The procedure is based on a novel polarimetric equation which describes the photoexcited emission at a specific emission wavelength from an ideal surface cos arc cos sin cos sin 

where is the depolarizance of the surface of the reference object m is the index of refraction of the object is an angle of transmitter polarization is the angle of incidence and is the azimuthal angle. The method is based on the idea of measuring the luminescence at least two different times. One time would be when 0 and the other time when 90 . Based on this equation the following method can be shown for the determination of D. The depolarization efficiency D can be determined by the following equation exp where 2 1 1 cos arc cos sin and 

where Lis the luminescence intensity measured when 0 and Lis the luminescence intensity measured when 90 . However P is calculated differently for the two cases in and . The measured luminescence in both cases is described by a function L y where L is the luminescence intensity. In the case of varies with time t. The intensity L is measured at various times t. The other angles and are fixed during the determination. The polar angle must be known previous to the determination. The polarization for this case is 90 The angle may be known before the determination of D. However a variation on the technique would be that the angle be determined from the values measured of L at various times t. In the case of varies with the position on the object. The other angles and are fixed during the determination. The angles and must be known and fixed to the determination. The polarization for this case is 90 .

The above method will work for photoluminescence emission Raman scattering or diffuse reflection. D can be calculated in the case of if the polarization varies with time. D can be calculated in the case of when the polarization is constant in time.

The total polarization of the received light at distance z which includes the depolarization of the atmosphere is Pwhere .

The strength of depolarization D of the medium between transmitter and receiver is calculated using the following formula. exp . Reference

The reference object also referred to more concisely as a reference may be a natural or man made object. For example a reference may be positioned a certain distance from the apparatus by placement firing a projectile dropping from an aircraft or other method at the time of measurement or at some earlier time. The reference may include an electronic circuit or transponder so as to facilitate determination of the reference object distance. In other examples a locator device may be placed on a natural object. The reference can be an object chosen to have desired properties such as photoluminescence or diffuse scattering. The reference can be an object presenting a curved surface for example providing a plurality of incident angles for incident radiation.

The reference distance is the path length of the incident radiation through the environment to the point of incidence on the reference. For atmospheric depolarization determination the reference distance may be much larger than the dimensions of the apparatus used and may also be much larger than the size of the reference object. Hence the reference distance may be equivalently referred to as for example the distance between the radiation source and the center of the reference object without any significant loss of accuracy. For other media or with shorter path lengths determining the position of the point of incidence on the reference object is used in order to confirm the path length.

The reference distance may be determined by satellite imaging a ranging device such as laser ranging device ultrasound ranging device optical rangefinder and the like relative absolute position as determined using a GPS or similar device from the angle subtended at the apparatus location for an object of known size apparent object position relative to known landmarks or any other distance measurement method. The apparatus may include additional functionalities related to reference distance determination such as ranging devices wireless transceiver in communication with the reference if appropriate and the like. For example the radiation source is optionally a pulsed laser so that ranging can be achieved using gating times.

The reference distance can be determined using photometry such as photometric stereo measurements using a color camera.

The transmitter provides incident radiation having desired properties. The transmitter comprises at least one radiation source such as a laser and optionally includes additional components to modify the properties of the incident beam such as one or more lenses an aperture a polarizer or polarization modulator a filter and the like. The transmitter also optionally includes beam steering components to select an incidence location on a reference. Other possible transmitters include lamps and light emitting diodes.

The incident wavelength may be varied for example by selecting one of a plurality of radiation sources tuning a radiation source such as a dye laser or wavelength adjustable semiconductor laser or modifying or changing a filter.

The radiation source may be a directional source of electromagnetic radiation such as a laser providing laser radiation. The laser radiation is inherently polarized or alternatively is polarized by an external polarizer. The laser radiation polarization is controllable by electrical signals applied to the laser for example applied to an electrooptic material within the laser structure. Electrical signals are applied to a laser such as a semiconductor laser structure to control polarization and or emission wavelength.

A polarization modulator if used may be an electrooptic modulator for example comprising an electrooptic crystal. In other examples the function of a polarization modulator is included in a laser. For example a laser such as a semiconductor laser is optionally used having a laser radiation output having electrically controllable polarization properties.

The receiver comprises the detector and any associated components such as a lens or filter are used to collect and detect the returned radiation.

Returned radiation from the reference such as photoluminescence or diffuse reflection is collected by the receiver. The receiver includes a detector such as an optical detector. The receiver is sensitive to at least one spectrum of visible wavelengths IR wavelengths including near IR and thermal radiation wavelengths THz GHz or other electromagnetic radiation ranges. For example the receiver is sensitive to near IR wavelengths and visible or UV visible ranges. For diffuse reflected radiation a polarizer at the receiver end is used to eliminate specular reflected radiation from the receiver.

It is appreciated that the returned radiation also is optionally Raman scattering. Holographic filters in the receiver are used to selectively transmit Raman scattered radiation.

Apparatus according to the present invention preferably includes signal processing circuitry operational to determine the depolarization of the environment from the initial polarization the final polarization and the reference distance. The signal processing circuitry allows the detector signal to be correlated with the polarization modulator if used or equivalently with the polarization output of the radiation source if this is controllable. The signal processing circuitry operates on a computer the computer including a processor clock memory data input and data output such as a display driver coupled to a display or transmitter in communication with a network . The processor may execute one or more algorithms to provide the results of calculations described herein.

In examples discussed above the environment discussed is the atmosphere. However examples of the present invention can be used to determine depolarization of various media such as other gases liquids such as water including river water and sea water and solids such as glasses.

The transmitter and receiver may be disposed within a single housing to form a unitary apparatus. The apparatus is carried or otherwise supported by a land vehicle boat submarine aircraft satellite a person or may be set on the ground for example using a stand.

The apparatus optionally includes a display which may be used to provide a visual indication of determined data. The display also is useful to show the part of the environment towards which the incident radiation is directed for example in combination with zoom or image enhancement capabilities in order to direct the incident radiation onto the surface of the desired reference. A camera optionally is used to image the reference object the same camera being used as a sensor in the receiver and or for photometric stereo measurements.

In other inventive embodiments the transmitter and receiver are contained in separate housings and are in data communication through a cable or wireless communications link. It is appreciated that multiple transmitters and or receivers optionally are used for example to allow data to be collected for multiple angular positions wavelengths reference distances and the like.

An apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention optionally provides for collection of other ambient condition data such as temperature pressure humidity other meteorological conditions such as cloud cover or precipitation time sun position pollutant analysis particulate form and concentration altitude position for example using a GPS and the like. Atmospheric depolarization may be correlated with ambient conditions and may be used to interpret data collected under similar conditions.

An apparatus also optionally includes an operational mode selector the operational mode selector having a first setting in which photoluminescence is detected and a second setting in which diffuse reflection is detected.

An apparatus also optionally includes a data input which can be the data input of the computer the data input receiving the object distance so as to allow determination of the depolarization efficiency.

Ambient condition data is collected by instrumentation included within the device received directly from other devices over a communications link or may be entered by an apparatus operator using a data entry mechanism.

The apparatus also optionally includes a housing which in some examples may seal against ingress of the environment under test for example if the environment is water such as seawater . The housing may be provided with one or more windows to allow radiation to enter and or leave the housing.

As used herein the terminology photoluminescence or photoluminescent radition refers to a process in which a substance absorbs photons electromagnetic radiation and then re radiates photons. Quantum mechanically the process can be described as an excitation to a higher energy state and then a return to a lower energy state accompanied by the emission of a photon. The photoluminescent processes include but are not limited to resonant radiations in which a photon of a particular wavelength is absorbed and an equivalent photon is immediately emitted.

In general the present invention is not restricted to the illustrative examples described above. Examples are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Methods apparatus compositions and the like described herein are exemplary and not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the scope of the claims. Patents patent applications or publications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Having described the invention the invention is now claimed.

