---

title: Fabrication of three-dimensional ion optics assemblies by metallization of non-conductive substrates
abstract: A die assembly for creating a ring electrode including a cylindrically-shaped die base, two die walls and a die top sized to fit inside a cylindrical die housing. The die base and die top having a series of concentric elevations used as impressions to form on two ends of the ring electrode. A method of fabricating an LTCC ring electrode using the die assembly is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08188422&OS=08188422&RS=08188422
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08188422
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 368 770 filed Mar. 6 2006 entitled Fabrication of 3 D Ion Optics Assemblies by Metallization of Non Conductive Substrates the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 594 018 entitled Fabrication of 3 D Ion Optics Assemblies by Metallization of Non Conductive Substrates filed Mar. 4 2005 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was developed under support from the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command under grant No. DASG600 00 C 0089 accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to three dimensional ion optics more specifically to the fabrication of three dimensional ion optic assemblies by metallization of non conductive substrates.

In situ sensors enable researchers to investigate real time chemical dynamics in the environment thereby greatly improving sampling densities and providing the capability for autonomous measurements in harsh environments. For example deployed sensors can be used to detect quantify and trace harmful and toxic chemicals that have been released in populated areas. Miniaturized mass spectrometers MS can be especially versatile and powerful as sensors for on site identification and characterization of a wide variety of chemicals. Miniaturization is desirable for field deployed mass spectrometers because of the corresponding reduction of electrical power consumption simplification of vacuum systems and the possibility for rapid parallel chemical analysis.

Recent efforts in extreme miniaturization of mass spectrometers and their components have been stimulated by opportunities arising from micro fabrication techniques and advances in materials sciences. Previous attempts have focused on micro fabrication of as many as a million micron sized cylindrical ion trap CIT mass spectrometer arrays on silicon wafers. While an array based approach for MS miniaturization can be useful to compensate for the reduced signal intensities that result from miniaturization of each mass spectrometer affordable batch fabrication of such arrays remains a challenge.

The current invention includes in one embodiment a method to simplify the fabrication and assembly of cylindrical ion traps CITs using new materials and processes. Accordingly a CIT was made from Low Temperature Co fired Ceramics LTCC used in semi conductor industry as a packaging material and physical MEMS and RF MEMS devices. LTCC have ceramic particles bound in an organic matrix which results in the structure behaving as a flexible tape that can be shaped easily e.g. with a knife. In one embodiment the LTCC sheets are laminated together under pressure to build up the desired thickness of the unfired structure. Upon firing the organic compounds are volatilized and at 800 850 C. the glass in the ceramic reflows to impart rigidity to the structure. As the organics are volatilized the structure shrinks. This shrinkage is a function of the lamination pressure compaction and firing cycle.

The current invention is the first to use LTCC to build CIT ring electrodes. Structures were made from LTCC to extract the optimum processing parameters lamination pressure method of stacking sheets firing cycle to obtain a stable structure devoid of cracks and to determine the amount of shrinkage. The shrinkage data were used in the design of the ring electrode punch to ensure that the finished structure met design specifications. The fired ring was subjected to a three dimensional lithography process that enabled metallization for completion of the ring electrode. To validate this fabrication method the LTCC CIT was operated as a mass spectrometer to detect chloroform CHCl and perfluorotributylamine PFTBA calibration compound in separate experiments.

In another embodiment the inventive method for the fabrication of miniature cylindrical ion trap CIT mass spectrometers uses a non conductive substrate. This method allows the feasibility of batch fabrication of accurate and low cost CITs. A CIT ring electrode r 1.375 mm was fabricated using multiple layers of low temperature co fired ceramics LTCC which were punched and then compressed in a ring electrode die. Uniform compression was achieved and cracking avoided by tailoring the thickness of the LTCC stack. The stack was then fired at 850 C. to convert the LTCC into a ceramic ring.

According to another embodiment areas to be metallized are patterned photolithographically after the substrate is subjected to electroless plating. Stainless steel endplates are affixed to the ring electrode to complete the CIT. The prototype CIT was tested in the mass selective instability mode without axial modulation and produced mass spectra with a typical peak width of 1.8 m z. Simulations of operation were also performed in ITSIM 5.0 after SIMION 7.0 was used to calculate the contribution of higher order multipoles to the nominally quadrupole potential inside the CIT.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

Fabrication of the low temperature co fired ceramic LTCC ring electrode is most easily understood by dividing the inventive method into five steps as outlined in . In one embodiment these steps include punching operation lamination operation firing operation metallization operation and photolithography on the metallized layer operation . Completion of the cylindrical ion trap CIT construction utilizes stainless steel endplates. While the invention is described below has incorporating five 5 steps variations including less or more than all described steps are contemplated.

LTCC sheets such as 951 GREEN TAPE from Dupont were used for fabrication of the structure. The thickness of each sheet used in the prototype was 0.1 mm. The sheets were cut using a punch designed to accommodate both the CIT design and lateral shrinkage of the tape upon firing into account. Initially the punch was designed to cut rings with a 19 mm outer diameter and 3 mm inner diameter. The rings were cut in a single step using an assembly of concentrically aligned hammer punches to minimize distortion.

The circular sheets were stacked in a stainless steel die assembly shown in two views in with the inverse shape of the ring electrode designed for lamination of the LTCC sheets. The results structural integrity were used to redesign the punch to yield two sets of doughnut shaped discs. Example parameters of the doughnut shaped discs include one with a internal diameter of 3 mm d and the other with an internal diameter of 9.5 mm d .

As shown in die assembly includes die housing die base die walls and and die top . Die housing is cylindrical in shape hollow at its center and open on one end as shown in . Die housing may have aperture in bottom portion .

Die base is also cylindrical in shape and has a diameter just less than the diameter of the inner portion of die housing to allow die base to slide into die housing . An enlarged version of die base is shown in . Die base includes a series of concentric circular elevated surfaces or steps . First surface has the largest diameter. Second surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of first surface and is set apart from first surface by an elevation or step . Third surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of second surface and is set apart from second surface by an elevation or step . Fourth surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of third surface and is set apart from third surface by an elevation or step . These elevated surfaces or steps provide the impressions that are transferred to the bottom side of ring electrode which is shown in . Die base also includes dowel extending from fourth surface which creates aperture in ring electrode shown in .

First die wall and second die wall are halves of a hollowed cylinder as shown in . First die wall and second die wall are sized so that they can be positioned on first surface of die base and around step . First die wall and second die wall also have an outer diameter just less than the diameter of the inner portion of die housing to allow them to slide into die housing when positioned together on die base .

Die top is also cylindrical in shape and has a diameter just less than the diameter of the inner portion of die housing to allow die top to slide into die housing . An enlarged version of die top is shown in . Die top includes a series of concentric circular elevated surfaces or steps along with inverse channel extension . First surface has the largest diameter. Second surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of first surface and is set apart from first surface by an elevation or step . Third surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of second surface and is set apart from second surface by an elevation or step . Fourth surface has a diameter smaller than the diameter of third surface and is set apart from third surface by an elevation or step . These elevated surfaces or steps provide the impressions that are transferred to the top side of ring electrode which is shown in . Die top also includes aperture extending through the center of die top which allows for dowel of die base to pass through.

The discs were then assembled in a die such that 28 discs of diameter dwere sandwiched between 24 discs of diameter d 12 on each side . The sheets were pressed in the die under 8000 psi at 85 C. for 15 minutes in a PHI P215H Hydraulic Lamination Press.

For 52 LTCC sheets compression was 8000 psi which resulted in a semi hard LTCC ring electrode with the patterns of the die transferred on it. After lamination operation and before firing operation three holes were drilled in the LTCC ring electrode to allow for screws to hold the electrical connections in the final device. A channel was also incorporated into the 3D structure for the purpose of electro less plating at a later stage to provide a connection for the RF high voltage to the ring electrode.

The top view of ring electrode is shown in and the bottom view of ring electrode is shown in . Ring electrode comprises first end second end and aperture extending between first end and second end . The concentric steps described above are located on both first end and second end . In first end these concentric steps are formed from a first depression which creates first surface and a second depression which creates second surface . Likewise on second end the concentric steps are formed from a first depression which creates first surface and second depression which creates second surface . A third depression in first end corresponds to channel and extends from the periphery of ring electrode to first end s first surface .

The first step provides for separation of the endplates from ring electrode to prevent electrical short . The second step was matched to fit and align the stainless steel endplates.

The soft LTCC ring electrode was fired in a Barnstead tube furnace at atmospheric pressure. The temperature was ramped to 350 C. at 10 C. minute where it was held constant for 30 minutes. At this temperature the LTCC lost all of its organic components. The temperature was then increased at the same ramp rate to 850 C. where it was held for 30 minutes. The glass transition temperature of the ceramic coat used in LTCC is 810 C. and at 850 C. the glass reflows and surrounds the grains of ceramic forming a hard ceramic structure. The resulting hard ceramic 3D structure was allowed to slowly cool to room temperature.

Steps A and B The entire LTCC ring electrode was plated with electroless nickel Ni and then with gold Au to form a conductive surface. Electroless plating is an autocatalyic process that results in reduction of metal from the solution onto the immersed surface. This technique enables conformal coating of metals on non conducting three dimensional surfaces. The metallized surface is then used as a plating base for electro or electro less plating of the desired metals. This two step process ensures minimal stress in the plated films. Nickel has excellent adhesion to the glassy surface of the ring electrode and served as a seed layer on which gold was electroless plated. A nickel film high in phosphorus was used to eliminate the ferromagnetic behavior of nickel. Electroless gold was plated on top of the nickel to ensure a highly conductive layer not prone to heating. The electro less nickel and gold were plated for 6 and 10 minutes respectively to get a 2.5 m thick conductive layer for operation at RF high voltages up to 1.5 kV and 5.5 MHz in vacuum . The metal layers were then lithographically patterned and etched as described below in order to define the conducting and non conducting regions.

Step C Double sided mounting tape was used to attach the ring electrode structure onto a glass slide. The glass slide was then held by vacuum on the spinner chuck. Positive photoresist Shipley 1827 was spun onto the LTCC structure at 2500 RPM for 30 seconds. Since there was a hole at the center of the ring electrode photoresist was spun on both sides of the LTCC structure in one spinning operation. The substrate was removed from the glass slide placed on another glass slide and soft baked at 120 C. for 60 seconds. Next the photoresist was exposed by using a SF100 a direct write lithography tool.

A computer generated mask was directly imposed via DIGITAL LIGHT PROCESSING DLP projection of UV light of 488 nm on the three dimensional structure. The mask for first end is shown in . The LTCC structure was manually aligned on an X Y Z stage with the projection of the mask using 570 nm light from the SF100 and was then exposed with UV light of 488 nm for 8 seconds. The mask defined the area where the photoresist was exposed and therefore those areas where metal was to be removed.

Step D The UV exposed portion of the photoresist was developed and removed. The resist was developed for 45 seconds. Similar steps were followed on the other side to pattern the photoresist on the backside or second end with the backside mask shown in .

Step E Once the photoresist was patterned and developed the LTCC structure was dipped 7 minutes in aqua regia HCL HNO 3 1 solution to remove the exposed metal layers. Aqua regia stripped the metal layers except at those regions that were protected by the patterned photoresist layer.

Step F The obtained LTCC structure was cleaned in acetone and methanol to dissolve all photoresist residues and was baked at 85 C. to remove any volatile compounds present.

Stainless steel endplate electrodes with an aperture of 0.42 mm radius and a thickness of 0.10 mm were then fitted in the circular grooves on each side of the LTCC ring electrode to complete the CIT. Tab washers constructed from stainless steel sheet held the endplate electrodes in the grooves. The CIT was attached to a stainless steel plate for mounting in the vacuum system. The conductive channel in the LTCC ring electrode was electrically connected to the plate by a copper strip for application of the RF high voltage.

The CIT assembly was mounted onto a vacuum flange that was fitted with a series of electrical feedthroughs. An electron multiplier detector was mounted next to one aperture of the CIT. The RF high voltage electrical connection from the flange feedthrough to the ring electrode was shielded from the detector with a stainless steel sheet to avoid pick up of the RF high voltage. The CIT endplate electrodes were grounded to the vacuum flange. The vacuum flange was mounted on a vacuum chamber that had two separate gas inlets one for analytes and the other for a buffer gas. An electron gun Kimball Physics Inc ELG 2 EGPS 2 was used for ionization of the analytes. When mounting the CIT the front side of the electron gun was automatically aligned at a distance of 2 cm from the CIT aperture. shows a detailed diagram of the experimental setup.

To obtain the correct RF voltages and ramp rates a digital delay pulse generator was used to gate the electron beam for ionization reduce the detector high voltage during ionization and start and stop the RF ramp for mass analysis. A waveform generator was used to provide a sinusoidal voltage that was ramped in amplitude after an ionization period of 50 ms. This signal was amplified by an ordinary broadband AB push pull amplifier to generate a high current signal. The output of the broadband amplifier was directly coupled with an inductor that was attached to the CIT. This combination gave a series resonant circuit in which current was transformed to high voltage. To change the resonant frequency the inductance of the circuit was changed. The frequency of the waveform generator was adjusted to obtain a linear ramp. The average power absorbed by the broadband amplifier was about 2 to 3 W. During ionization the RF trapping voltage CHCl 3.926 MHz PFTBA 2.970 MHz was set at 114 Vpp. Then the electron gun was switched off and the RF trapping voltage was ramped from 114 Vpp to 770 Vpp in 20 ms. The detector voltage was switched with a KEPCO high voltage power supply by the Stanford digital delay pulse generator. The detector was held at 1600 V during the ramping and was held at 1000 V during electron ionization to protect against excessive current from ions created in front of the detector.

The LTCC CIT was tested in the mass selective instability mode using PFTBA calibration gas and CHClas analytes and helium as a buffer gas. The analytes were leaked into the vacuum chamber and were ionized by the electron beam from the electron gun that was operated at 77 eV. The RF voltage amplitude was ramped to eject ions in ascending order of m z. The ions that impinged on the detector generated a signal current that was amplified with a current amplifier Advanced Research Instruments Co. PMT5 at a gain of 10V A. The signal current was visualized with a LeCroy 9354A oscilloscope to obtain a plot of ion intensity vs. time. The RF voltage amplitude of the ramp was recorded for all the instances and the spectrum was corrected with respect to m z.

In the fabrication process the optimum lamination pressure range was found to be higher than that used in the typical LTCC lamination for high density electronic packing. Initial experiments showed that stresses in the laminated LTCC structure during firing caused cracks in the center of the ring electrode. To reduce stresses and avoid cracks in successive experiments the LTCC sheets were cut in different shapes then stacked and laminated. The shaping was done to ensure uniform pressure loading in the die relief as seen in . schematically shows the effect of pressing a stack of laminated sheets into a three dimensional profile. This approach was used in the first set of experiments. In this approach the green tapes at the center need to be pressed the most resulting in non uniform compacting and cracking. As discussed above the process was modified by shaping the starting material to be close to its final profile as shown in . This approach results in more uniform compression and eliminates cracking.

Also the design of the stainless steel die assembly was modified in order to achieve a relatively uniform compression of the material throughout the die volume. The shrinkage during the firing process was found to be smaller because the material was more tightly packed as a result of the higher lamination pressure. Experiments were conducted to optimize the number of sheets used in the lamination process so that shrinkage during the firing process was repeatable and could be compensated for in the design. Once the trap was fabricated its final dimensions were recorded to calculate the post firing shrinkage. The percentage of post firing shrinkage was found to be 10 0.5 in the X Y direction and 9.5 0.5 in the Z direction. The overall tolerance of 1 found in this process can be improved by at least one order of magnitude by fabricating the ion traps in standard processing plants and using improved metrology tools. This is routinely achieved in manufacturing as variables pressure temperature and humidity are better controlled. The 1 precision in the current manufacturing process for either ror ztranslates into a shift of the mass spectra by less than one mass unit. The concept of using a die assembly to obtain three dimensional structures could allow for batch fabrication by incorporating multiple die units in one and lamination of an entire stack of LTCC sheets at one time. This could be an inexpensive alternative to the conventional method of building CIT mass spectrometers of stainless steel. The provision for auto alignment of different components with the help of grooves and protrusion geometries can make the overall assembly simple.

A tighter tolerance of the metal layer derived from the precision of the photolithography technique allows for better control over the electric potential inside the CIT and hence its characteristics. Two different photolithographic methods were tried one with a positive and the other with a negative photoresist. The method with negative photoresist PKP was found to be less desirable for this application as the PKP was hard to strip after development.

The mass spectrum recorded with CHClpresent in the chamber shows clearly the isotopes of Cl. see . The lowered background signal indicated that the initial outgassing was diminished. The mass spectrum obtained from the simulations in ITSIM is shown in and is remarkably similar to the mass spectrum of CHClobtained during the experiments.

The miniature CIT mass spectrometer was constructed using a non conductive substrate LTCC as the basis for the ring electrode. Photolithography and electroless plating were used to create well defined conductive areas on the LTCC ring electrode. After adding stainless steel aperture plates the LTCC CIT was successfully tested using PFTBA and CHClas analytes and helium as the buffer gas. The mass spectra obtained had a typical peak width of 1.8 m z FWHM . Higher order multipole contributions to the potential inside the CIT were determined with SIMION and were used for simulations in ITSIM to confirm operation. Use of soft materials such as LTCC could possibly lead to batch fabrication strategies for miniature arrays of cylindrical ion trap mass spectrometers. Precise control over the placement of conductive areas on LTCC might also be useful for new types of electrodes in ion optical systems.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

