---

title: Certified communications system and method
abstract: The certification system and method acquires, records and then authenticates a voice communication between communicating parties by a service provider in a telecommunication system. The system acquires, maintains custody over, controls access to, and permits modification, supplementation and deletion of recorded communications session, and distributes a reproduction of an authenticated recording. The authenticated record includes the authenticated identity AU-ID of the parties which is ascertained and documented at the time of acquisition, upon any access, modification or supplementation to the recording and at the time of authentication. AU-ID is adjunct data to the recording. The supplemented recording may include a translation, a transcription and an emotional characteristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08428227&OS=08428227&RS=08428227
owner: Certicall, LLC
number: 08428227
owner_city: N. Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100518
---
The present invention relates to a method and a system for creating a certified electronic signature compliant communication and more particularly of acquiring recording archiving and certifying a voice communication between one or more communicating parties such parties optionally authenticated on the system and maintaining clear acquisition custody control release and distribution functions as a trusted third party intermediary for the recorded voice video and data communication sessions. Certification is confirmed by the authenticated copy of the recorded communication and the authenticated identity of the communicating parties.

In this electronic age with the widespread penetration and use of cell phones or smart phones as well as small portable computers individuals and companies have a need for capturing and documenting oral or voice communications between two or more communicating parties. The present system is necessary due to the recent convergence of various trends and cultural factors such as a highly mobile society and virtual workplace the expectation of accessing and confirming accurate information with immediacy and the need to conduct business securely across multiple channels. Phone related understandings and oral agreements are already a mainstay in the way that commitments are made and communicated. Further a single party may wish to document an oral communication for various reasons. The risks and rewards presented in this fast paced on demand and increasingly litigious society can be controlled with reliable technical tools that enhance the immediacy certainty on demand retrieval and enforceability of personal and business communications. There is a need for a system and method that operates as an integrated whole converging voice video and data channels. The need is greater due to the use of phone and web communications which can operate in conjunction with one another through computer telephony integration. There is a need to provide users with a set of controls for placing monitoring reviewing managing and processing communications. Further existing systems do not provide processing options such as trusted archiving transcription translation distribution certification indexing fact checking profiling and emotional coding.

Present systems lack a communications platform which meet statutory electronic signature law requirements established by federal and state authorities and trade group organizations. These statutory provisions explicitly identify digitally recorded voice and video communications consensually adopted as a permissible method to confirm and execute binding electronic transactions and agreements. Under these laws digital recorded and electronically signed voice files have the same validity and enforceability as their handwritten and hard copy counterparts. There is a further need for a system which provides for the integrated identity verification and authentication of consenting participants. In order to assure that a voice communication is received by a particular individual a called party it is necessary in some situations to confirm the identity of the called party. In the past the identity of the called party was assumed because the called telephone number was assigned to that called party. However with the widespread use of cell phones the caller cannot assume that the called party is in fact the party he or she intends to transact business with or deliver a voice message to. There is a need for a system to provide on board out of wallet identity verification and authentication methods enabling a display of a member profile identity to verify such identity with status cues and a need for a system to log intrinsic communications channel tracking elements before during and after a certified call such that risk management is enhanced and to assure system integrity and maintain identity verification.

There is a further need for a system to provide users a trusted third party intermediary service whether on a centralized basis or on a distributed model pursuant to prescribed standards. There is an additional need to provide system access to a variety of communications channels in various service formats to handle one two or multiple party calls outbound inbound triggered on demand or dynamically integrated with and without customized voice prompts and knowledge base content. A communications platform needs to adhere to electronic signature law requirements pertaining to consent access by participating users defined retention and retrieval policies in a framework designed to provide transparency consistency and accountability. To fulfill these needs the present invention or parts thereof thereby goes beyond ordinary one party recording systems providing all participating parties access to certified calls on published terms of service. There is a need for a reliable system to deliver a consistent archiving and certification resource thereby powering a host of convenient and binding electronic transactions that have legal and evidentiary efficacy equal or superior to traditional written methods. The advantages of such a system support a paperless application which also appeals to environmentally minded individuals and enterprises seeking to reduce paper records.

Therefore there is a need for a system and a telecommunications method generally deployed throughout a telecommunication system integrated with computer programs and computer technology to ascertain the identity of all the parties involved in the voice communication record the voice communication maintain custody and control over the recorded communication certify the identity of all parties who participated in the voice communication and authenticate the record itself and provide documentation and certification of an authentic copy of the voice communication as well as authentication of the participants of the voice communication.

Prior art systems describe various recording platforms and methods for voice communications. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 987 to Schwartz U.S. Pat. No. 6 661 879 to Schwartz and U.S. Pat. No. 6 668 044 to Schwartz. U.S. Pat. No. 6 987 841 to Byers discloses a method for providing a phone conversation recording system. This system verifies the identity of the telephone number of the calling party sometimes referred to herein as a first communicating party and establishes a communication with the called party sometimes referred to herein as the second communicating party records the voice communication and maintains a protected web based platform for accessing the stored audio file deleting it downloading it as well as transmitting via email and a URL Uniform Resource Link a communication to the communicating party to permit access to the audio file. Further the email contains authentication information established by the calling or first communicating party. Byers also discloses a server hosting service and a website for carrying out the same. U.S. Patent Publication 2009 0306981 to Cromack discloses a method and a system for enhancing a conversation.

It is another objective of the present invention to authenticate the parties involved in the communication session.

It is a further object of the present invention to permit a single party to record voice communication and further to permit multiple parties to engage in voice communications and permit all or part of the communication to be recorded.

It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a dynamic access and control by the first second and all other communicating parties via either cell phones or smart phone commands or a second communications channel which may be web based over the Internet operating in conjunction with client computers at each party s location.

It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a converged system with communication channels over phone web and mobile web devices that operate in conjunction with one another sometimes simultaneously implementing user interface controls for the recording playback archiving retrieval monitoring management and distribution of certified communications.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a communications platform enabling convergence of voice video and data communications carried on one or more communications channels during a communications session and providing control monitoring and management of such content on an intra sessional basis and a post sessional basis.

It is an additional object of the present invention to enable a system that provides services as a trusted third party intermediary enabling access and retrieval of archived communications and certification of same on published terms of service that are transparent consistent and compliant with electronic signature laws.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a trusted third party which provides fair open and transparent recording control and access and distribution controls to communicating parties as well as high quality archival and long term storage of exchanged content and additionally a certification process for later presentation of such content.

It is an additional object of the present invention to enable a system which complies with the electronic signature E sign laws regulatory frameworks applicable to trade and consumer transactions and permits the parties to easily establish document and enforce their agreements.

It is a further object of the present invention to permit the parties to identify a category or class of communications thereby causing certain system defaults and user defined controls to be activated regarding control of the recording disposition of the recording after the communication session ends and other supplementary services such as transcribing translating archiving distributing certifying the recording and otherwise processing or supplementing the recording.

The present invention relates to a method and a system for obtaining a certified communication and more particularly of acquiring recording and certifying a voice communication between one or more communicating parties and maintaining clear acquisition custody control release and distribution data for the recorded voice communication. Certification is confirmed by the authenticated copy of the recorded communication and the authenticated identity of the communicating parties.

The certification system and method acquires records and then authenticates a voice communication primarily between a first communicating party and a second communicating by a service provider in a telecommunication system. The system can also be configured such that a singular or first communicating party can record his or her voice or other communication and authenticate the same through the certification system. Multiple parties can also record and authenticate using the present system. By acquiring and recording the voice communication between the first and second party the system carefully acquires maintains custody over controls access to and permits modification of and supplementation to and deletion of the recorded communications session and also provides distribution and reproduction of an authenticated recording. In order to authenticate the record the identity ID of the communicating parties is ascertained and documented by the present system and method. Therefore the first communicating party requests and the second communicating party acknowledges the recording as a first adjunct data element to the recording of the voice communication. The system then authenticates the identity AU ID of the first party with a hierarchical authentication process and this authentication of the identity of the first communicating party is a second adjunct data element or log to the record. The identity of the first communicating party uses identity factors including the party s communications device communications channel and a pre communication profile with higher levels of authentication being applied based upon the categorical classification of the communication. Other factors and conditions may increase or decrease the authentication process for any particular party. Examples of categorical classification include negotiating a legal contract as compared with orally documenting the terms of the legal contract the latter having a higher classification and higher levels of ID authentication than the former. The system also authenticates the identity of the second party using less identity factors than the first party and this AU ID of the second communicating party is a third adjunct data element to the record. The system further distributes after receiving a release acknowledgment from at least one party an authenticated copy of the recorded communication along with the adjunct acknowledgment and authenticated party identities. The releasing party may be subject to the control and supervision of an organization and in that case the organization grants the release in the place of the authenticated requesting party. The organization stands in the shoes of the party requesting release.

The system may use hash values or other data confirmation algorithms on the originally captures communication once the entire communications session is recorded in order to assure the integrity custody and control over the recorded voice communication throughout the storage time until release or destruction . Further the recording could be encrypted compressed or stored in an archival process. To facilitate the navigation through the recorded session the system may automatically apply indexing markers to the record or permit the parties to insert index markers as needed or permitted.

The recording can be further supplemented by a transcription or translation as well as by keyword identification and subsequent fact checking based upon key word searching and cross checking facts in the recorded session. The emotional tone and characteristics of the voice communication can be analyzed. For this purpose the content and substance of U.S. Pat. No. 5 647 834 to Ron is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 303 296 to Zucker describes a confirmed telephone communication and the content of this Zucker patent is incorporated herein by reference thereto. The invention herein is an extension of the Zucker system and the Ron system. Combined with U.S. Pat. No. 6 907 408 to Angel incorporated herein by reference thereto the present system provides a certification platform for a wide variety of communications. See Applications section below.

The present invention relates to a certified communication system and method wherein the service provider or System Admin acquires the voice recording maintains custody over the voice recording controls access to the voice recording authenticates the identity of the communication parties and any others having access or supplementation to the recording and thereafter releases or distributes the voice recording as an authenticated recording also including the authenticated identities of the communicating parties. The System Admin includes automated functions as prescribed by the operators of the certification system and generally denotes system wide defaults and conditions and parameters. As discussed later in the section entitled Description of System Components and Functional Elements the present invention can be configured as a singular system at one location or distributed over several computing networks such as at a call center which handles numerous voice communications between operators at the call center and consumers and business people calling into the call center. The recorder can be at one location and controlled or monitored by the System Admin at a central authentication server. Alternatively the present invention can be configured as a distributed computer system throughout the telecommunication system utilizing a central location which stores the voice communications as well as provides control and command over user selections user profiles and other materials. Further the system and method can be distributed with parts of the system being at remote locations such as at a business wherein the business maintains the original recording of the voice communication and the System Admin or operator maintains at a central location servers and other storage facilities which monitor the acquisition and carefully monitor control and custody over the original voice recording even though the recording is at the remote location of the business affiliate of the system operator. As noted in the description of System Components and Functional Elements below the system can be deployed as a computer related or computer based system as well as deployed as distinct hardware elements carrying out the functional blocks discussed in detail herein.

Also the Abbreviations Table in the section entitled General Description of System Components may assist in understanding the drawings and the detailed descriptions hereinafter. The section entitled System Details describes the system components and steps as illustrated in the drawings. Similar numerals designate similar items throughout the drawings. The following Functional Elements may be incorporated with the description in the System Details section to enhance the inventive method and system. Functional modules are interchangeable between these descriptive sections. The Applications section describes many uses of the method and the system. Other applications are apparent from the specification as a whole.

The Certification Call System includes the following basic system elements core elements and functions although each and every element in itself is not necessary to provide the Certification Service.

The users or communication parties employ Secure Communications Paths which are primarily switched toll and toll free telephone services also provided over cellular VoIP cable satellite Internet links etc. as well as other wired and wireless communications Comm Paths . The Comm Paths sometimes called communication channels are accessed by the parties from a mobile or landline phone or from a party s PC personal computer or in an networked enterprise system or some combination thereof. Connection into the Certification System is made over these Comm Paths by or between the Certification Call Trusted Third Party Server TTPS operated or at least controlled by the System Administrator and one two or multiple communicating parties. In general the Comm Paths transmit voice video and or data in secure Certification Call Sessions. Although the primary thrust of the inventive system is the recording of voice communications the system is designed to capture all ancillary electronic documents emails IMs SMS text messages or other electronic data exchanged between the parties during the communication session handled by the Certification System. The transmission technology will integrate high definition HD channels and recordings where requested and available. In general the communications are paperless except where output to printed form is requested by the User or the Party to the communication session.

The Certification System in its primary form uses a Trusted Third Party Server see explained in detail later coupled to the Comm Paths and the content voice communication to be recorded is carried over the Comm Paths and is managed and secured by the trusted third party server TTPS operated by Certification Call System or its licensee. The TTPS orchestrates the Communications provides for User Comm Party management and control via a System Management Interface SMI . The SMI runs automatic procedures to ensure system fidelity and integrity the voice communications and content is recorded archived and where requested by the Comm Party encrypted compressed and otherwise secured by the Certification System to be tamper resistant.

The Certification System Administrator System Admin or Sys Admin or if the System Admin licenses the Certification System the licensed service provider can certify the authenticity of the recorded Communication since the System Admin employs high level security and risk management measures that maintain system integrity and comm content integrity. The TTPS typically operates as an ASP service but can also consist of dedicated hardware servers or appliances hosted on a business affiliate s premise see explained later . The TTPS can operate on User owned equipment that runs Certification Call application software and that operates pursuant to prescribed operating standards under a Certification Call license. The TTPS can be hosted at a business affiliate user s location in whole or in part or operate in conjunction with a Certification Call central server or be entirely operated remotely on Certification Call s central servers in some combination of onsite and remote implementation roles for service optimization. Storage functions can be managed by Certification Call the business affiliate user or by third parties operating under prescribed standards utilizing the SMI.

Authentication of Participants and Registration. Comm Party enrollment and use of the Certification Call service involves an identity authentication and verification regime where authenticated status is displayed to other Comm Parties. One of the Comm Parties typically is a registered user of the System. As a registered user this confers associated System privileges to the Comm Party. Authentication where a person is confirmed by the Certification System to be who they say they are of the second communicating party is optional but can be made mandatory at the request of the User designated as the Certification Call host or moderator. Best practices authenticate all communication parties. Sometimes this host of the certified call is called the first communicating party or the caller who initiates the Certification Call.

The authentication system integrates techniques and functions described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 907 408 to Angel incorporated herein by reference thereto. For example the authentication process may include out of wallet challenge questions IVR via Q and A with the Comm Party administered online or via customer service agents at a call center confirmatory access routines relying on usernames passwords and other intrinsic Comm Path and User profile Profile information. The Certification Call System also logs many if not all intrinsic Communications Path tracking elements including user name passwords ANI IP address MAC address geographic data from the Comm Party s Comm Device and other tracking elements to enhance system risk management integrity and ID reliability. The Certification System integrates other authentication methods including biometrics random number fobs token authentication geo tagging data series comparisons etc. These tracking and authentication elements and modules are employed before during and or after a Certification Call Session to allow the greatest degree of evidentiary assurance e.g. matching ANI IP tracking elements and voiceprints from multiple calls . Further the System has default settings for Party AU ID authentication of identity which are triggered in an increasing manner based upon the classification of the Comm or recorded session. For example a recorded negotiation of a contract has a lower classification than the contract terms itself and therefore when the Comm Parties select the negotiations comm category or class the Party AU ID is set by the system at a lower level. When the Comm Parties set the contract class a hierarchical AU ID process is activated with gathers more assurances that the Parties are who they purport to be. For online or oral communications this hierarchical approach is beneficial.

The TTPS further operates as a converged service. The TTPS moderates and controls the sequencing of the transmission of voice video and or data communications that is the entirety of the Comm Session. The system operates in an computer telephone integrated format converging landline and mobile phone communications paths with a web accessible platform that enables Comm Session control monitoring and management. User interfaces part of the SMI are accessible on the phone web and mobile web devices. Although the voice communication may and usually is on one comm channel the Certification System handles and employs multiple comm channels. For example the System incorporates user initiated controls for the recording playback retrieval and distribution of Recorded Communications both on the phone and on the web and these phone and web controls operate in conjunction with one another. The phone and web interfaces provide the user both Comm Parties or a single Comm Party seeking an authenticated record or multiple parties in a conference with a consistently presented set of controls for placing monitoring reviewing and processing of communications.

Processing options whether used individually or collectively for the Communications include among others a. Transcription. b. Translation. c. Archiving. d. Distribution. e. Certification Authentication. f. Emotion Coding. g. Fact Checking h. Profiling. More aspects of the Certification System are discussed below.

Transcription. Converting the voice file to an alphanumeric textual electronic and or paper document using automated speech to text functionality manual live agent review or some combination thereof.

Translation. Conversion of the input Communication file to an output file in the language English French Spanish etc. requested by the user whether in audio or alphanumeric electronic or paper text format.

Archiving. Storage primarily digital of the recorded Communication file and any associated files used during the Certification Call Session in either an encrypted or unencrypted form maintained or accessible for designated periods of time e.g. 1 year 5 years 20 years specified by the user Comm Party or as provided by the Certification Call Terms of Service set by the Sys Admin by contract or by system default or Terms of Service TOS provisions .

Distribution. Distribution of the source input Communications Session file s or designated excerpted Comm Session segments are distributed via mail email as downloads as output to distributed media e.g. CDs thumb drives etc or made accessible through unmonitored links or monitored links that log and can report on the extent of access by users.

Certification Authentication. The Recorded Communication files or Comm Segments are designated as authentic Sessions or Segments Processed by the Certification Call System or licensees under circumstances where the Certification Call System attests to the authenticity of the Recorded Communications the integrity of the Certification Call System and or the methods used to Record Archive Distribute or otherwise Process the Communications or Comm Segments. The Certification can be denoted through various authenticity seals. The Authenticated or AU Comm Record can include a digital rights management DRM wrapper for record integrity and limited access limited to those with the DRM unwrap code accompanying documentation or affidavits testimony provided under oath or as otherwise requested by a user or other requesting party. DRM may further include a record log signal back to the Authentication Server such that the identity of the receiving party of the authenticated or certified communication is documented and logged into the system with the recorded session.

Emotion Coding. The Communications are processed using a variety of proprietary and patented techniques that are designed to determine the emotion of the speaker e.g. anger joy disgust hate lying etc. based on the characteristics of the voice files speed amplitude intensity pitch etc. within a benchmarking process that adapts for cultural linguistic idiomatic and origin characteristics of the speaker. The emotional designation can be identified in unique outputs such as color coded transcripts e.g. red for angry blue for joyful or real time or contemporaneous presentation outputs where the Communications are monitored online with a PC dashboard that conveys alerts or other Processing displays or signals. The contents of U.S. Pat. No. 5 647 834 to Ron disclose such an emotional characteristic analysis and the same is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Fact Checking The content of the Recorded Communications are reviewed and the truth accuracy or veracity of the assertions is corroborated through checks with extrinsic sources. A report can be supplied as specified by the user or as provided by the Certification Call Terms of Service.

Profiling. Reporting on a System Management Interface or customized report is provided based on a review of the nature and extent of a user s Comm Party s use of the Certification Call system as authorized by the User member or as provided by the Certification Call Terms of Service TOS at the request of the user member another user or requesting party to derive information that can help either profile the user s and or use of the System. Profiling reference points include frequency duration time of day characteristics distribution origination ANI or IP address destination processing options selected language ratings the extent of access into content menus completion ratios and other reference points. The user s Comm device for the Comm Session the Comm channel and user s profile are the nominal authentication elements to ID the Comm Party.

Another important system default for the Certification System is to be compliant with electronic signatures law or acts or regulations referred to herein as E Sign provisions. The Certification Call Service is designed to satisfy electronic signature laws for a digital records transactions and voice signatures. All Comm Parties must consent or acknowledge ACK to participate in the recorded voice Comm session for electronic signature compliant applications. The System further verifies identity AU ID tracks age of the user via the profile using intrinsic and extrinsic data sources archives Comm Session records for E Sign prescribed periods and provides non member Comm Session participants to access the recorded Communications all consistent with the E Sign laws and regulations and the Sys Admin s default set forth in the Terms of Service TOS and all other identified legal requirements.

The Certification System prompts and logs acquisition access custody control and distribution details designed to anticipate and satisfy common evidentiary requirements like authentication chain of custody original record and business record designations.

Registry for Authentication Provided as a Service to Third Parties. The Certification System AU ID database of authenticated Users can be purposed to provide identity verification for other third parties who seek to authenticate a user.

Accept authentication of third parties as an alternative to Certification Call authentication. The Certification System can integrate its AU ID database with the enrollment records of other trusted third party ID suppliers. Under a federated identity model the Certification System relies on the identification process performed and the identity information provided by a third party. The goal is to facilitate the secure exchange of identity credentials between organizations that is to enable portability of identity information across different systems and entities. The Certification System will accepts such third party credentials and integrates the same with the identification and authentication schema developed by others through identified Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

The Certification System operates with a single Comm Party two Comm Parties or multiple Comm Parties.

One Party a single party or a single group of parties e.g. single location meeting accesses the TTPS to make a Certification Call Session recording. No bridging out of the TTPS by the selected voice comm channel is permitted.

Two Party a Certification Call Session between two different parties or groups of parties is bridged through the TTPS. Typically the consent of the Comm Parties is required. The System prompts and records an affirmative confirmation ACK using various means including pressing of a certain key on the Comm Party Comm Device cell phone or by audio declaration IVR relates that the ACK is an approval of the recording . An error routine with the IVR may require the Comm Parties to annunciate clearly their acceptance of the recording event.

Multiple Party Conferences Certification Conference. A conference call involves a multipoint meet me bridging Certification Call Session between two or more parties at different locations involving two or more bridges with the TTPS. Muliptle Comm channels may be involved. The Certification Conference Session can be hosted on Certification Call servers or involve a Comm Party User supplied bridging platform linked through one line via a prescribed API to a Certification Call TTPS. The Certification Conference can be scheduled in one of two primary formats a. On demand Reservationless Users dial into a prescribed Certification Conference bridge at an appointed time. This is an anyone anytime from anywhere oriented service. Each participant accesses the converged Certification Conference bridge which has audio and web access information distributed by the Host. b. Scheduled Operator assisted. The Certification Call TTPS under the management of an automated attendant or live operator dials out to pre identified participating users and when all parties are connected or at the Host s option the Certification Call Session begins.

Adding Additional Party Resource to Call in Progress. An in progress Certification Call Session an intra sessional comm adds an additional person or accesses another Resource like a document video feed website etc . The Additional Comm Party and any Resources added to the Comm Session are displayed to all Comm Parties and are distributed during the session. This alternate comm channel data is logged and recorded with the Comm Session recording and made available as ancillary files to the Certification Call Session.

Certification Call Triggering. A Comm Party by calling a pre set or designated number assigned to the party or assigned to the party s enterprise system is permitted to access the Certification System as an on demand initiation of a Certification Call. This on demand Session is consistent with E Sign compliance and Party notice requirements since the called party initiated the call such initiation being an acknowledgment that the calling party agrees to be recorded and the second communicating party or called party must ACK or affirm his or her approval to the record act. The trigger also activates a Certification Call feature e.g. recording session ON function on outbound or inbound DID Certification calls.

Inbound Dedicated Inward Dial DID . The phone in number is connected to or issued by the Certification Call Service and is dedicated to a User s unique needs. The user directs usage parameters on the Certification Call DID based upon the User s pre set selections on the User s Preference Panel or the User s Profile. Certification Call DID includes the following feature configurations a. Inbound DID with White Black List Routing. A Certification Call DID is activated after first being screened by a user controlled filter that directs calls from to specified numbers for a designated processing treatment blocking with notification recording transcribing translating etc . b. Inbound DID with Content Library. A variation to allow user selection from defined menus of information can be configured to allow or deny access and provide processing of User responses. c. Inbound DID with Value Added Processing. A special programming to mold Certification Call to meet defined User needs. The Value Added Processing can be interactive processing database driven information dissemination or other previously listed processing activities transcription filtering translation certification distribution emotional profiling etc. . d. Inbound DID Ordering System. This certifies incoming orders using user profile or authenticated ID. It is designed to automate enterprise functions and to deliver consistent user experience with reporting and retrieval by initiating user. The service involves scripting a series of prompts to collect desired information from the caller. The Inbound DID Order system can be paired with transmitted order confirmation and payment processing.

The merchant Certification System may include the following features. Profile driven e commerce and m commerce. The Certification Call DID Ordering provides the caller user interoperability with online and mobile device display and tracking. The mobile interfaces presented to the User caller are optimized for small screen display and data retrieval.

The Certification System can be configured as a Defined User Distribution of a Voice Communication. The Service includes a user configurable access and or distribution to identified users to provide a certified recording of inbound Certification Call. The Caller User sets the SMI to on call respondents called or second communicating parties . For example emergency medical instructions may be delivered to first responder. The Certification System is set to a AU ID the User setting up the call out program b record a message to the called parties c list the to be called parties and the system d calls the called parties confirms the ID of these called parties creates and delivery log of all Comm Sessions. In this manner the recorded message is delivered to AU ID s parties and a record or log is created with the called party s ACK for the receipt of the Comm Session.

Dual Member Access. The system will automatically detect when two registered Certification Call Members are in a Certification Call Session and will automatically send a copy of the Session recording or a link to such recording to both parties via email text telephone call and or to their online account. Users may enable such options through the User Preference Panel.

Profile tagging Each member user will create a profile that records enrollment information supplied to the System. The User Profile in most instances is verified or corroborated through access to extrinsic sources e.g. 3party authentication . A member profile may be updated from time to time and expanded to include other information requested by sponsoring User Member organizations. The Certification Call System collects and displays user identification and or qualification information and such information may be accessible to other members based on Member eligibility framework established on the System and in the TOS. The status of users or members with respect to factors such as registration and authentication or qualification on some other basis requested by a sponsoring Member organization is generally accessible and displayed. The display of such information may be accomplished through an icon system e.g. check mark icon to show an authenticated communicating party revealed during Comm Session use of the System for example where parties engage in a Certification Conference. In this manner the Comm Parties have visual cues that the participant who is speaking at that moment is subject to the System AU ID that is their status is authenticated along with a display of or access to summary profile information of the voice on the line User ID or AU ID designation or some other criteria. An additional profile tag by the Sys Admin is the ability to tag intrinsic elements voice biometrics ANI IP address etc and log those intrinsic elements with each User profile and develop risk management profiling.

Voice Photo Icon Keys. Upon initiating a Certification Call the calling party s own pre recorded voice identity recording will be accessed and replayed as a voice segment for the recipient called party to hear when receiving a Certification Call. Also the calling party will hear the recipient s called party s name in the recipient s recorded voice when a call is initiated to another Certification Call member. For example a recipient of a call will hear something like You are receiving a Certification call from John Smith in their own recorded voice to accept press . . . . The initiator of the call will hear something like Debbie Day in her own recorded voice has accepted your Certification Call Recording will begin at the tone . . . Identification of users or members through other means including photos videos or other static graphical or iconic segments collectively Keys The emphasis here would be for the actual Keys of the parties to be heard or seen as an added security measure if known to each other or if unknown to each other to assist in identity confirmation in case of future Certification calls. Additionally these actual Keys could be used as a complementary security measure providing an identifiable marker for proof or confirmation of ID before during or after a non face to face verbal or video exchange or other Certification call session.

User Ratings Complaints and Compliments The Certification System provides the ability for members to rate other members on their performance and compliance on transactional matters while using a Certification Call. Complaints for any particular user and compliments for any other user are called as ratings or rankings herein since the complaint or compliment is a rating or ranking of the user who is the subject of the analysis. The System Administrator can numerically rank the complaints or compliments as is known in the art.

Communications Tagging and Search. Each member through use of the Certification Call SMI may have the ability to create tags for each Recorded Certification call to describe the contents of each Certification call. These tags are searchable through use of key words phrases or reference numbers tagged to individual segments of a call. In addition the System will employ a utility that searches audio and video session segments based on keyword search terms identified by the user.

Non member User features As a trusted third party intermediary the Sys Admin provides services in compliance with Electronic signature laws. Typically the Sys Admin has a system default to meet legal requirements under these laws such as making the recorded Comm Session available to all Comm Parties access to all without regard to whether the called party is a registered System member. The calling party is the initiating member. One manner of accomplishing this is to provide a reference number at the conclusion of each call. The non member called party is able to log onto the Certification Call website enter identifying reference information plus a PIN supplied by the Certification Call SMI date and time of Certification Call telephone numbers involved and name and address info. The non member data input in a summary profile will be consistent with the Sys Admin s TOS. The TOS may allow a specified period for the calling party to object to access to a non member called party on account of fraud. An additional method to afford non member users with access is a system callback function to the non member called party immediately following the call. The Certification Call System may automate this function by collecting mobile telephone number or email address and provide a link providing access to the Certification Call Communication SMI.

System Compliance Controls The Certification Call System has services that satisfy different sets of compliance requirements. These special purpose feature sets address specific regulatory or legal requirements applicable in industry verticals or defined consumer settings e.g. HIPAA requirements in the healthcare sector be connected with system templates.

Jurisdictional Tracking and Alert Functions Compliance controls are applied to Certification calls according to a relational database of regulatory requirements that are organized to be applied selectively and discriminately for example where the origination and destination jurisdictions require two party consent for e signature compliant recording the system provides applicable disclosure prompts and records of ACK by one or the other or both Comm parties.

System Save Default Certification System automatically defaults and saves Comm Session recordings when no end call and save key is chosen by the Comm Parties. This happens when a call is disconnected accidentally or someone hangs up before they ve pressed the keys. The Comm Parties will have key commands to control the recording Comm Session ON and OFF.

User Preference Panel The Certification Call System contains user configurable sets of preferences that control how the Certification Call Service performs end to end. By making specific selections in advance pre communication session or during the Certification call intra sessional users control the access audio prompts navigational signaling and time sequencing notification parameters and means of notification distribution lists tone arrays time zone amount of rings before hanging up automated message sent to recipients voicemail if no answer answer supervision length automatic retries of unsuccessful calls or any other related and relevant message.

Access controls The System will typically use user name and password and shared secret reset arrangements although user specified access regimes may include access fobs token key authentication and IP dependent or visual key identification or a credit card that can be waved or scanned to begin a Certification call. A web cam may be employed for visual confirmations. Other biometrics may be obtained and various biometric authentications including but not limited to voice fingerprint retinal etc. are possible with hierarchical AU ID methods. Access arrangements are integrated to allow access and to perform realtime and post Certification call security checks and AU ID checks.

Caller ID options The user will be able to dispatch caller ID information through the telecommunications system or other communications paths signaling network that list either Certification Call or the originating party s registered Customer proprietary network information CPNI info or their own private mobile number. The System will integrate unique security measures to minimize or eliminate spoofing. 

Recording Signal The Users have an option to use a soft recording tone at designated intervals periodic audio reminders of record ON status to identify that the call is in record mode during the course of the conversation or not.

Ring Cycle A System option permits the User to select the amount of rings to a called party before the system takes certain action.

Search Controls The User has the ability to search the Certification Call database of recorded files based on certain select criteria. The search will scan text entries and audio entries as well as other meta data collected during a Certification call.

Tone Table Selectable tones used to configure a customized tone table for individual use. Tones will vary to denote certain system actions such as pause record end etc. The Tones will be organized into families of tones that define themed audio scapes For example a Western theme might contain a bullet ricochet crack of the whip cow mooing etc. Additionally Users can create their own unique set of tones from the various categories of tones provided.

Configurable Voice Prompts Options including Celebrity Voices Option to substitute select celebrity or other original voice narrated prompts for the standard voice prompts offered by the Certification Call system. such as John Wayne Mafia country style certain accents like british etc. .

Playback controls Skip fast forward rewind bookmark advance of varying length and user selectable such as ability to advance at precisely three seconds at a time etc. .

Time Zone Preference Ability to select the time zone that is used to designate the time of day for recorded calls in the user s database of recordings.

Automated Transcription Translation Processing Users designate that recordings are immediately transcribed in an automated manner following completion of a certified call as well as the ability to have annotated with emotional detection or other preferences as desired.

Scan rewind recordings The ability to scan ahead or back in a select recording at previously designated and emphasized intervals e.g. 10 seconds to determine where a user may elect to hear a pertinent part of the recording.

Automatic population of contact list choose whether to have the called party s dialed phone number automatically put in your contact list while dialing during or after the call.

Automatic Redial Decide whether to have the system automatically prompt user to call back an unanswered call and set the amount of tries as well as the amount of rings before it hangs up.

Auto message to unanswered call Decide whether to have an automated message sent either text email phone call or voicemail if a recipient does not answer. You recorded a Certification Call from Jon at 3 15 pm with or without the ability to press a key and call back the initiator of the call. This message could be a customized one in your voice or written words or you can select a predetermined one that would be auto generated from Certification Call.

Customized sales receipts Customize where invoice sales receipts would be sent be it text voicemail phonecall and or online account or all of these methods with ability to translate into languages. Have sales receipts automatically logged into account under separate invoice category.

Customize folders tool Ability to customize folders for online account and manage all transactions within these folders invoice folder phone call folder personal memo folder two way call folder etc. .

Schedule of Calls Tool Schedule a time for a call to be made as in wanting to place a Certification Call at a specific time the system will call you and prompt you to initiate the call or can initiate the call and let you know when answered or set repeat recurring times and dates for calls to be made as in a daily joke or any daily reminder .

Audio file format preference Set a preference to send calls or retrieve calls in either mp3 4 or way files or other audio formats.

Short cut command key a key that can be pressed or spoken on your phone during a Certification call that will recite all user commands and their associated keys such as press 9 to hear a complete listing of all command keys and their functions .

Low minutes warning The user will choose the method whether during a call or before the call upon sign in by ANI recognition after the call and or to be received by email or text or actual phone call or at log in to account to receive a warning of low minutes in their Certification account which can navigate them to the place where they can reload their minutes.

Music or audio track preference Selection of music or audio track while on hold or during connection wait times.

Customize what number appears on the recipients caller ID either your own or the name Certification Call .

Choose the ability User ID tag Select the option to upload a photo of yourself or some chosen image which will display on the recipient s monitor of the smartphone or computer during a Certification call.

Deliver Access option Choose the method of delivery or access whether link email telephone call and or transfer into online account for all phone call recordings.

Segmenting Choose whether the user can press a designated key during the recorded Comm Session to segment or mark certain sections of that call with an assigned reference number as a way of discerning different spoken portions of the phone call . This is an improved navigational tool useful for listening back to specific portions of the recorded Comm Session. Reference numbers per session or per segment may be used.

Contact image preference Ability to assign logos images icons or photos to contacts and to be able to call that contact up by these images.

Voice command dialing Ability to have system recognize voice commands that are customized to each contact such as saying honey to dial your husband jerk to dial your boss etc.

Customized time out Customize length of time before system hangs up and saves phone call on a time out.

Customizable template. Customized templates for varying applications recorded in the user s own voice or themed audio with spaces for a spoken fill response in such matters as a routine down payment for a home there would be areas for voice answers such as amounts dates time limits etc.

Header Footer Option to append a header or footer to the recording indication the date and time of the certified phone call.

The software may include certain navigational or operational controls provided to the user pre communication intra sessional or post communication.

Start Stop provides for the ability to go on and off the record pause and resume during a phone call where the conversation is being recorded and signal an end to the recording. The various segments that are recorded are then concatenated together into a single audio file. which receives a reference number or maybe the initiator wants to be able to segment various parts of the call with different reference numbers and can be used to segment certain aspects or portions of the conversation for easy retrieval during playback. Each individual segment is identified with a reference code as well as a final aggregate reference number which is identified at the conclusion of the recording for the concatenated segments.

Ability to append a recording so if a person stops a recording and decides later that they want to record more they can add to that recording.

Log Detail A database of collected information of a recorded session including but not limited to time and date of the call called to party name and telephone number called from telephone number length of call length of recording GPS location and the ability to create a text note detailing a descriptive reference for the individual session. Ability to be able to label and place different folders in the user account for segregation of various phone calls invoice folder personal memo folder conference calls folder etc.

Geo tagging Identifies the location of a caller and or recipient of a Certification Call using GPS or similar geographical positioning tool.

Reference Number System Provides a unique identifier system for each Certification Call recorded session both individual segments and final concatenated recording by which the recording can later be easily accessed from the web or telephone.

Call Tagging Reference Number Segments Each segment of a recorded session are identified with a base common tag such that the recorded segments may be concatenated into a single recording in chronological order.

Short Contact list select The ability to select a contact s to be called on a Certification call and then have that designated telephone number automatically dialed. The contact list may include other detailed information on the individual contact including name address telephone numbers email address and other relevant facts. The system may utilize a contact list generated by a smartphone s built in application as well as a unique contact list generated by the Certification Call application.

Nickname short dialing The ability to select a particular contact by speaking a nickname or choosing an image or icon in place of their full name or other identifying designation such as speaking their name or number or any assigned phrase chosen by the initiator.

Recall of command prompts Continual loop of instructions during a call as in a caller putting a call in pause mode they will hear a voice instruction telling them what mode they are in and how to next proceed such as but not limited specifically to your call is on pause press pound to resume or your recording has begun press star to end .

The following is a representative sample of SMI web based controls for the Comm Party User. 1. Session In Progress Controls for 1a. Participant tracking 1b. Bookmarking 2. Call Tagging 3. Playback options search and skip 4. Segmenting Communication Excerpts for 4a. Bracketing. 5. Participant Tracking with Sort Select and Segment Processing. 6. Auto generated warning message appears on screen when deleting a phone call. The system will display a warning message to the User identifying any relevant consequences of deleting a recording from the administrative contacts list and the terms associated with such deletion. 7. Ability to undelete or retrieve back deleted phone calls at any time. This option is subject to the Terms of Service related to Certification Call s file retention policy.

The smartphone application SMA integrates built in features of the corresponding telecommunications unit iPhone by Apple Blackberry by RIM etc. with Certification Call s IVR and back office administrative functions including the following.

Login The SMA will allow registered subscribers users to log into the IVR and back office functions by entering certain information such as account name email address and password.

Registration Non subscribers will be provided with the capability to register with the Certification Call service and become qualified subscribers by providing standard details e.g. name address email multiple telephone numbers financial payment information etc. . After completing basic registration prospective subscribers will be provided with option to continue on and progress through a supplemental authentication identity verification process.

Acceptance of Terms of Service TOS Prior to accessing Certification Call s services users must accept Certification Call s TOS by affirmatively acknowledging their receipt understanding and agreement with the TOS via the SMI.

Options Once a user has been registered authenticated and has properly logged into to Certification Call s IVR system via the SMI the user will be provided with certain options including but not limited to Make a Personal Recording Make a 2 Party Call Initiate or join a Conference Access archived recordings stored in Certification Call s secure servers Access database information stored on Certification Call s secure servers Access and modify as necessary user account information Share files and information consistent with Certification Call s TOS Personal Recording capability to Start Pause Stop Cancel Save options bring up keyboard or icons to initiate actions integrated with IVR program Ability to enter Unique Identifier to individual recordings tag line Ability to return to Main Menu.

For Two Party Calling the Ability to enter Unique Identifier tag line and Call to Name prior to phone call Ability to access smartphone contact list and or customized frequently called list Ability to create Favorites list for contacts Use of keyboard or icons to respond to and integrate with IVR capabilities. Conference calling Ability to utilize conferencing controls consistent with Certification Call web based controls. Help Screen provides users with access to general help information answers to frequently asked questions and direct customer service.

Due to the inherent operational aspects of the system there are certain promotional aspects of the Certification System which are important to the commercial aspect of the invention.

Viral Call Back After the completion of a Certification call with a non member Certification Call s system will immediately contact the non member in an automated fashion to provide instruction as to how the party may retrieve or access the recorded session. During the callback the non member will be offered the opportunity to become an enrolled member of Certification Call with various incentives to join immediately such as a free trial membership for a period of time or a number of free Certification Calls.

Other promotional aspects include Certification Call Session Sharing Enrollment Certification Call reward points to purchase items or applied towards membership Revenue Share Referral mechanism whereby auto generated rewards are automatically sent to the referring party System will automatically detect when two Certification Call members connect and will automatically put reward points into each account Pricing break Discounted pricing when two Certification Call members make a Certification call and a Certification Call credit card that accumulates points with every Certification Call made or certain item purchased.

The AU ID of the Certification System leads itself to obtaining assurance of the proper operation and use of the System. These include Unauthorized Two Party recording in one party format detection Unauthorized Addition of a Party in Two Party Format Detection of addition of parties through VoIP connection.

The smart phone features and capabilities include among others Ability to Login to individual account with Username email address or Account and passcode Link to online Registration of new clients via Certification Call s server On the Registration Screen Standard registration components name address email multiple telephone numbers financial payment information etc. Ability to continue on to be authenticated after initial registration Element of confirming human access complete equation 8 2 Ability to view and accept standard Terms of Service. On the Options Page Main Menu after successful login Link to Personal Recording service option Link to 2 Party Call service option Conference Call Link Link to access recordings My Certification Calls archived on Certification Call server same capability as on the Certification Call website Link to User access to account information same capability as on the Certification Call website Start Pause Stop Cancel Save options bring up keyboard or icons to initiate actions integrated with IVR program Ability to enter Unique Identifier to individual recordings tag line Ability to return to Main Menu On a 2 Party Call Screen Ability to enter Unique Identifier tag line and Call to Name prior to phone call Ability to access smart phone contact list or custom frequently called list.

Ability to create Favorites list for contacts Use of keyboard or icons to respond to and integrate with IVR capabilities Capability to access recordings list and listen to archived recordings Ability to amend elements of recordings list for Unique Identifier and Call Name Ability to download files or send link to third party On the Help Screen General help instructions.

The voice communication is typically recorded under the ultimate control of AU center but is recorded in remote comm session database . Central AU server is geographically remote to comm session DB . Control is imposed by SMI interface . This may include API modules. Users interface with the SMI and apply fine controls to the comm session.

To achieve a high degree of security and accuracy AU center may also highly compress and securely archive the recorded comm session in archive store as a backup for the recorded session at DB . A note or log of the archive is maintained in session log database .

The communication session database is either located at the third business affiliate or on the third party system . The TTPS interface has a module or access tracker that cooperates with AU center such that identities of the communicating parties are stored in the session log database as well as time date data and party data and communication device and channel data. If more efficient the comm session log may be co located with comm session DB . A better practice is to keep the user data at AU center . AU center continues to maintain some level of control over remote DB .

When the comm session is fully recorded in comm session database by third party system access tracker develops a hash value indicating the complete content of the recorded voice session and this hash is stored in session log database . Any further access to the recorded communication in comm session database is tracked and logged by access tracker . In this manner the server at AU center maintains control over the custody and control over access to and any modifications of the recorded session in third party system and more particularly the comm session database .

As indicated earlier the server at the AU center may access extrinsic identity information from third party authentication AU systems . These third party systems include third party AU A and third party AU B and third party AU C entities. These entities have access through network to a number of different databases including government database limited access under law credit card database credit report database a consumer credit report aggregator and a third party aggregator database . In addition these third party AU systems may activate and seek services from search services . These search services may engage the Internet or the web based browser services or access private or public databases or other social networks . The information from the search services is filtered and supplied through third party AU systems and ultimately through interface back to the server at AU center . In this manner extrinsic ID data from government database if legally permitted credit card databases credit report databases and third party aggregator databases are compiled for assuring the identity of user A and user B. Intrinsic data sources for AU ID include the communications device used by user A user B group C or group D the communications channel employed as well as the pre communication profile in user profile database .

AU center also supplies additional or add on services to the user and the groups related to the recorded comm session. For example trusted AU center may engage the services of a transcription service vendor or a translation service to translate foreign language into domestic language at service vendor or to activate an emotional characteristic analysis . The emotional characteristic analysis of the voice comm is described in detail in the Ron 834 patent. The report of the voice comm emotion content is an adjunct to the data logged into the session log database and is a complement to the recorded comm session in database .

The authentication of any particular user or group is further understood based upon the Angel 408 patent incorporated herein by reference thereto.

In addition to supplemental transcription and translation services the trusted AU center may engage a fact checker service that engages a search and a keyword comparison and generates a report. The report is another adjunct to the recorded comm session. A distribution provider may be further engaged by AU center to distribute the authentic copy of the recorded comm session in addition to any relevant adjunct data. Distribution provider may be the command point for monitoring DRM wrapped authenticated content. This authentication is discussed later in connection with . At a minimum the relevant adjunct data is the authenticated identity AU ID of the communicating parties. Additional authenticated data may include chronologic data access reports secured storage reports and hash information especially when the recorded comm session is stored on third party system .

In distributed system B users U and U are connected to a network and also have access to communications devices . Users U and U engage in communication session with users A B . Group F server includes a portion of the TTPS system management interface SMI marked as TTP interface . Group F server engages I O and provides access to telecom network . The TTP interface enables real time uploading of recorded comm session or periodic uploading of comm sessions to trusted AU center . In distributed system B the comm session record database is located at AU TTPS center generally remote from group F server . To assure an authentic copy is obtained from group F TTP interface engages in various content confirmation algorithms such as generating a hash value or content count and storing that hash and communicating that hash to TTPS central location along with the upload of the previously stored comm session. Other algorithms may be used to confirm recorded content. In both situations distributed system A and distributed system B information regarding party U through U is authenticated with either by intrinsic or extrinsic data in the same manner as the first communicating party A B from . The authentication of the called party is discussed later in the acquisition module. This authentication identity AU ID data is stored either in server or server or the server at central location . A group AU ID and a user U AU ID is stored with called party A AU ID. To provide a certified copy of the communication session that copy has to be authenticated the acquisition custody and control over that recorded comm session must be maintained and logged and the identity of the communicating parties should be stored as an adjunct all to authenticate the comm session. All these functions are accomplished under the control TTPS . The specific storage location of the data is less important than accurately documenting where the data is stored and confirming the content and replication accuracy of that data from acquisition through the custody and control and over the entire storage time up through the authentication and distribution time.

Under the acquisition module the system logs the AU ID of each party and also records the communication session. The party AU ID is disclosed to each other or as selected by the parties is not disclosed. Disclosure of the parties ID is the better practice. Most importantly each party must be notified of the recording and his or her assent ACK is recorded as an adjunct to the recorded comm session. The system default is always to notify the party of the recording and record the ACK for the record. A chronologic log is stored for each comm session.

In the custody module the system gathers and stores comm session data. This gathering and storage includes primarily voice communications but also includes additional audio and video and all digital transfers between the comm parties. For example the parties may engage in a voice communication at the same time as they exchange electronic documents white board materials and other materials via a different comm channel than the voice comm channel. The different comm channel may be Internet if the parties are in voice communication over a cell phone link or may engage other third party comm service suppliers. See for example Cisco Go To Meeting program. In the custody module the best practice for the certification system requires a chronologic log be made. Also under custody the system should secure the content of the comm session. This securing of content includes obtaining a hash count for the original stored comm session and all other stored copies of the comm session and engaging other security algorithms. The security algorithms may be compression encryption or other common security measures.

In the control module the system secures and then securely stores the content for set period of times. This period of time may be predetermined such as under a contract the time should be six years after the term of the contract ends. The content may be secured based upon selections made by each of the parties. The content secure time frame may be dictated by internal factors or external factors. These external factors may include legal requirements. For example voice communications subject to certification under the current federal health law HIPPA require that the communication be stored for a certain of time in accordance with law or regulation. The system administrator for TTPS establishes terms of service TOS which provides system defaults. The TOS is a contract with users and groups.

The control module also addresses access to the recorded comm session. An access log should be maintained and access to the recorded session as a best practice should be limited to the parties engaged to the communication. An analysis of who what where when why how and how much referred to as a 5W 2H decisional matrix is applicable. In other words shortly after the comm session is recorded the system administrator should expect that the non registered user who engaged as a participant in the comm session be provided access to the recorded comm session. However after the passage of a preset period of time possibly set as a system default TOS for example three months after the communication session the System Admin may increase the level of AU ID required for the non registered user to access the recorded comm session. Similar increases or decreases in authentication and access controls are based upon the 5W 2H protocols employed by the system administrator. A contract agreed to by participants should be fully available at all times to those participants as well as all groups that those participants represent. Therefore not only is the AU ID of the parties required for best practices but the authentication and identify of the party s organization is required. This may involve multiple profiles or nested profiles providing various degrees of access to the recorded comm session as well as the log associated with the recorded conversation.

Further under the control module the functions of modification transformation supplementation and deletion are functional submodules or subroutines. The control access process invokes all pre communication settings by the parties or the organization within which the parties operate. Intra sessional controls during the comm session are permitted in certain circumstances to the parties. Intra sessional controls are limited to the comm channel and comm devices uses by the communicating parties or party. Different intra sessional controls may be provided to one party due to a second comm channel use e.g. the Internet when the voice comm is over a cell phone between the two communicating parties. Post sessional controls for modification transformation supplementation and deletion are provided first limited by the System Admin and then fine tune controls are granted to the communicating parties. In any event a log of all these pre intra and post sessional control activities is maintained.

The release and distribution module includes functional elements dealing with intrinsic release issues and extrinsic release issues. From an intrinsic standpoint the parties may define either pre session intra session or post session the release and distribution parameters. These parameters may be established by the group which controls the communicating party. Further system protocols or defaults may be imposed on a more restrictive level for certain types of comm session release and distribution situations or a more generous level of release and distribution for more informal comm sessions. The classification category of the communication has an impact upon the distribution and release of the recorded communication. Certain legal requirements for example E Sign laws provide minimum system defaults which cannot be altered by a party s pre session intra session or post session acts. The release and distribution module also include a submodule for authenticating the recorded communication. The authentication includes authenticating the identity of the party and any group associated with the party and authenticating the recorded comm session. Additionally the requester of the authenticated record may be subject to an AU ID. Again the application of hierarchical authentication on release elements is based upon the 5W 2H protocol analysis discussed later. A log should kept of all access and distribution request and releases. The release submodule uses a log of the release and System Admin documents the same and sets session retention policies. At some point in time fifteen years twenty years the System Admin should scrub its files to delete the recorded comm session. This is a document retention policy. Further the archival storage of the recorded comm session should be immutable. The IBM report Content Immutable Storage issued Oct. 18 2004 describes some aspects of trustworthy storage of electronic records.

In acquisition flowchart A begins at functional block recognizing that system protocol set by the System Admin dictates certain comm events as does user defined items such as event definition classification and 5W 2H factors. These elements are accounted for in the acquisition module. The acquisition program includes primary secondary as well as tertiary AU ID checks and enhancements. Primary AU ID in step involves identifying intrinsic data in function block A . This intrinsic module includes comm device data used by each of the comm parties comm channels used by the comm parties the user profiles for each participant pre comm user input information such as password input or question and answer Q A data IVR interactive voice response interrogation and system demanded digital inputs as well as historical profiles and voice print metric analysis and geographic location or geographic Geo data tagging. These items are identity factors which are cross checked against either prior obtained data in the system or cross checked against currently obtained data. The number of correct matches indicates the validity if the ID of the communicating party. A hierarchical approach to AU ID data acquisition is employed the more important the comm session the higher the AU ID. Geo tagging is obtained data from the comm device. For example if one participant is in a non U.S. country and the other participant is in the U.S. a higher level of AU ID may be imposed. This is true unless the subject participant is always from that foreign country. Primary identification AU routine also obtains extrinsic identity data from function block . This includes third party AU source data credit card credit report data public records data sources from data aggregators web site search and cross checks to the accumulated data.

Identity factors include intrinsic data and extrinsic data. The profile for any comm party has many identity factors. Additional ID factors can be ascertained form a wide variety of external sources listed herein. The intrinsic ID factors match currently obtained data to previously stored data oftentimes in the user s profile. For un registered users comm channel and comm device data currently acquired can be checked against extrinsic data sources to confirm identity. Registered users have more data points which permit the system to confirm identity both by intrinsic methods and extrinsic methods.

Step provides analysis of who are the comm parties. Identifying first communicating party second communicating party and any groups associated with those communicating parties as well as the system defaults or system requirements constitute best practices. Function block discusses what is being required and why. The users may select a definition of what is being recorded comm class ID or may input through a second or different comm channel for example a web based comm channel information as to the subject or the classification of the comm session. A highly developed system translates the spoken comm class to a digital format and the digital com class is used to set system default at the classification level. The voice term contract is easily discernable. The comm session may be identified by the group. For example in connection with Users may be investigators for an insurance company obtaining record statements from accident victims or witnesses. The recording of these witness statements may be subject to authentication if the called party is properly identified in an authentication process agrees ACK to the recording and is permitted access to correct the recorded session. The group calling party has a known AU ID. Function in notes that the user may select the category of the communication.

The user may select the level of authentication if the comm session is an informal communication. The system may also provide the user the ability to select an event closest to the comm session and therefore the system imposes parameters as to authentication and other elements based upon the selected event. See polling application or certification blast application herein below. System protocol also is a factor. For example if a contract is being formed system protocols sufficient to comply with E Sign laws and regulations are imposed on all parties to the comm session.

In some situations when an on line seller of goods or services has a profile in the system DB a buyer who is sometimes a consumer wishes to confirm the AU ID of the seller. Since the seller s profile may include ratings or rankings the buyer can then use those ratings to assure her or him of the integrity of the seller. In these situations the buyer is the first communicating party requesting the recording and the AU ID of the seller uses less identity factors than the buyer first comm party. The rating may be the only factor used. Less ID factors are used since the system has many indicators of AU ID of the seller based for example on the high ratings of the seller. Each field in the profile may be considered an identity factor. The buyer wanting to confirm or transform an oral agreement into an enforceable E sign agreement the writing being the recorded voice confirmed by the system as described herein employs the system and process to lock down the seller.

In other situations it is the on line seller who wants to confirm the identity of the buyer. For example when a large monetary transaction is contemplated the seller wants to know and authenticate the ID of the buyer. The buyer must convince the seller that the buyer is genuine and is who he or she says he is. In this situation the buyer is the first communicating party and the system imposes a higher AU ID confirm process on the buyer first communicating party than the seller who is the second communicating party. Further was noted above the buyer and the seller may be presented with AU ID controls wherein the parties can alter the authentication during the comm session. In this manner the system adapts to the transaction at hand by providing the parties with a dynamic adaptable controls for the AU ID and the subsequent documentation of the comm session.

In this manner the system gathers AU ID as authentication adjunct to the recorded session. The authentication adjunct is the AU ID for any one or more of the communicating parties under the dynamic control of the parties during a pre comm a intra sessional comm or a post comm setting.

Function block indicates the where aspect of the 5W 2H analysis. Geographic tracking information from the comm device of each of the parties and the comm channels may be important in determining the degree of authentication and the amount of interactive of control granted or denied to the user for that particular comm session. The system trackers would also identify the comm channel as well as the comm device for all of the parties. Function block identifies the when or time factor of the acquisition. Best practices may require that the System Admin turn ON the recorded session as long as one party has requested it a registered calling party and best practices would notify all the other participants a non registered called party and seek their agreement ACK as to the further recording of the conversation. Time also is a factor in enabling or disabling on a system level the manual ON OFF control provided to a user or a participant. Whether the second communicating party has an ON OFF control or any intra sessional control may be a factor of when. If both parties are previously registered there may be a system default applied to that communication permitting full comm session control for acquisition.

Function block identifies how and the quantity how much. The how function block addresses the time to turn ON record ON for confirmation. What controls are available to the communicating parties and how are the controls deployed. Also block sets the time OFF record OFF control unless one of the parties has control of the record OFF function. The other element in function is granting the second communicating party the control OFF. The communicating party should be given notice of these parameters in some manner and an acknowledgment ACK should be logged into the system for user actuatable controls. The next jump point leads to flowchart acquisition A .

Step is a secondary or enhancement of the primary or basic party identity authentication. Further intrinsic data and extrinsic data may be obtained. Further a class or category of data communications is refined or defined. Classes of communications are discussed throughout this specification and includes contracts or a polling or voting of a participant a legal litigation event such as taking a deposition of a party or obtaining an NDA agreement or a non disclosure agreement and documenting the subsequent data disclosures subject to the NDA as well as certifying application specific items. Government regulations are part of the enhanced identity AU process including HIPPA and E Sign regulations. Profile indicia or items may trigger the enhanced secondary AU ID. Profile indicia include whether the participant resides in the U.S. or does not reside in the U.S. Whether they are registered or unregistered in the system. Whether the summary profile S profile is required or is not required pre comm session by the system. Whether both comm parties who are unregistered in the system can use the system. The System Admin may set higher levels of AU ID if both parties are unregistered. This is to reduce the probability of fraud and misuse of the recorded comm session. The history of pre communication registered users is important. For fraud issues participants may be suspected of having more than one parties on a comm channel more than originally indicated by the comm parties. Risk analysis management accounts for a user s credit card returns overdraft in bank accounts criminal record. Higher AU ID is needed for these riskier users. The frequency of use of the certification system and the devices used by the comm parties are also factors in determining whether to trigger a secondary AU ID or not. Third party ratings are important for commercial matters. For example third party ratings in Paypal or other business to consumer online transactional systems are well known. The comm party may request higher levels of AU ID for the second communicating party. Also the second communicating party may be given an option to request more specific authentication of the calling party. These higher degrees of AU ID may be displayed to the comm parties during the comm session. Such displays may be on the user s PC or smart phone.

Function block again conducts an analysis of the 5W 2H system parameters for the acquisition indicating who what where when why how and how much as matrix factors for processing the secondary AU ID.

Function block indicates that user settings group settings and system protocol provides either default points or minimal values or default caps or maximum values for any particular comm session. A simple negotiation a comm class does not require access into government records to confirm the identity of the parties. There is an expense involved in obtaining third party AU data and this expense is born by the System Admin and this is a factor in setting a cap on the AU ID which may be requested by any particular comm party. Alternatively additional AU ID charges may be applied to the requesting party. Moving from the jump point to acquisition flowchart A the tertiary enhancement for party AU ID is noted in step . Function recognizes that an interactive Q A session is useful here. An IVR session has a higher system cost and may be employed only in secondary or tertiary AU processes. Function requests certain information from one or both of the comm parties. This may entail interactive voice response IVR email ASP web based input data demands may include voice analysis as a biometric facial analysis through a web cam or other biometric check. Party responses as data input are required. High level diplomatic negotiations may require tertiary enhancement for AU ID. Function block conducts an analysis on fraud and risk management. It is possible that the categorization of the comm session is so high or the System Admin discovers that the credibility of one of the comm parties to the comm session is so risky that the System Admin refuses the comm session. Increasingly higher AU ID reduces risk but at a higher cost to the System Admin. These costs may be carried by the System Admin or be charged to the caller or the caller party if registered. The parameters discussed herein cover this rejection as a risk analysis.

Function seeks third party AU ID information as an input into the tertiary enhancement of the AU ID. Function logs the comm parties ID into the system as an adjunct to the to be recorded comm session. Function discloses the parties ID to all the comm parties. This may be by audio announcement or by tone announcement or IVR including a name plus an organization. The disclosure may be visual via a web display to each user or email subject to a buried url link accessible by a smart phone or computer. The phone may have a flashing icon to be actuated to download the comm party AU ID. All registered users may be visually identified by the certification flashing icon. Function records the comm session. The reference number or ID of the recorded comm session is noted in the system as well as time and date data chronologic data . Function repeats the record ON with notice given to the communicating parties.

Continuing to acquisition flowchart A function step applies index markers to the recorded comm as an option. These index markers may be audio or may be chronologic for digital data transfer. The index makers may be imposed as a system protocol or may be imposed by a group protocol or a user selectable control definition. Again the 5W 2H analysis is conducted for the index marker functions . The parties may have control over the application of index markers. The parties may add index markers into the recorded session upon command during a comm session. In function block the parties may decide to supplement the parties AU ID on an intra sessional basis. For example the system protocol set by the System Admin may conduct a supplemental AU ID for communicating parties. This may be part of the risk management program. A user may request during the comm session a supplementation of the AU ID for a particular party. A group which includes one of the users may require as group protocol to conduct additional AU ID on the called party. The 5W 2H analysis is also engaged for the supplementation of the parties AU ID during the recorded session. In given situations the parties may have AU ID control and may request further authentication. Intrinsic data sessional data and extrinsic data may be utilized. As for session data the recording of a comm session may be used as a voice print to be compared to the recorded voice print in a previously recorded voice by the same party. This would entail the System Admin locating a previous recorded comm session decrypting it extracting the party s previous recorded voice and comparing the recorded voice print to the real time rt acquired voice print. Voice print confirmation may be a fourth level of AU ID. The System Admin may charge the user for the voice print check and confirm. Functions and recognize the primary AU ID for the parties and the secondary and tertiary analysis. Function records the emotional characteristic of the voices recorded during that comm session. The emotional emo characteristic report with references to recorded session index markers are stored as an adjunct to the recorded comm. Veracity ratings are ascertainable from the emo report which ratings are linked to the recorded session index markers. Function notes that a real time display to a party may be provided. The real time display may include a web based platform PC dashboard wherein the server at TTPS or AU center provides this real time or substantial real time data to each of the comm parties at a client computer. The client computer may capture voice for transmission over the web. Alternatively this data may be provided by a mobile comm device via an icon selectable for accessing the mobile dashboard control with secondary or tertiary AU ID request commands CMD or voice print analysis CMD thereby permitting the parties to change control points during the comm session. The real time display may also show the audio and tone markers or indicia added to the comm session during the recording and the emo veracity factor.

In acquisition flowchart A step notes the real time control provided to the parties in certain situations. The control may be record ON OFF. Additional controls may include supplementing any particular party s AU ID during the communication session. The parties may select any supplemental services transcription translation emotional analysis during the recorded comm session. The parties may also add other communicating parties during the conversation conference calling . All comm parties are subject to AU ID. This assures authenication of the recorded session. The parties may also engage a second or a different comm channel in addition to the voice comm channel Internet browser vs. cell phone . The control display should note the open secondary channel. In computer associated with user B provides this real time control panel for the comm session.

Function enables the comm parties to segment the comm session. This segmentation may be real time during the comm session or may include a system imposed protocol permitting only certain parties whose identity has been authenticated to segment the conversation after the recorded session. Segmentation is the breaking up of a recorded session. The segmentation may be provided through a different comm channel or different comm device to a particular participant. The segmentation control may be shown to the other communicating parties or may not be shown to the other communicating parties. The system then segments or places digital or other markers in the recorded comm session. As indicated earlier this improves the navigation through the recorded comm session by each of the comm participants at a later time. Contract negotiations may be segments from the contract terms themselves. As an example of a high classification content for a recorded comm session steps show an optional contract flowchart. In step both parties have identified that a contract will be formed by the recorded comm session. In step the party selects contract as a classification category for the comm session. In step the parties are notified via IVR or otherwise that the content has been classified as a contract. Step records the notification to both parties. Step in an IVR presents to each party a statement indicating that the parties agree or disagree to the contract. The parties respond with an ACK or decline which ACK identifies that the parties have agreed to a contract or not . Step ends the segment under the parties control. In this manner a party can negotiate all or part of the contract during part of the recorded comm session and then upon reaching an agreement on major elements of the contract initiate the segment function. Once the segment function is initiated and the parties both select the contract class for the comm session the system activates the optional contract module steps to and when the parties identify the contract terms and both affirm that they agree to the contract the segment control is turned OFF. In this manner both parties have access to the pre negotiations session before the contract as well as the recorded contract as a whole.

In a group comm session some parties may go to a virtual different conference room select a different comm channel or comm device supplement the party s AU ID in the virtual room and hold a separate comm session ON or OFF the record.

Function step notes the end of a comm session recorded with an OFF command CMD . This end of recording may be automatically system generated OFF based upon an expiration of a time when there is no active data communication exchange between the parties. The system may sense when there is no audio on the comm channel and no data transfer between any of the parties. The system may have a time out function trigger based upon the detection of the absence of an audio signal after a certain time. Notice should be given to the users prior to an automatice OFF record. Alternatively and preferably one or more of the parties may send a record OFF command CMD via keypad an IVR interactive voice initiating an action via an icon or initiating a control via web based display. The system may also provide system defaults such as a total comm session limit or a fee limit or a time based communications limit the user may buy 50 minutes of record session time have 3 recorded sessions totaling 45 minutes and when the fourth recorded session exceeds 5 minutes system grace period of 30 seconds the system defaults to record OFF . In a single party recording situation the system may limit the total recording session to no more than thirty minutes. There is a risk management analysis that the single comm party may not fulfill his or her financial obligations to the certification system if the recorded comm session exceeds that default preset system defined time period.

In step each user and each comm party is profiled. If the comm party is a registered user the YES branch is taken as noted in function block . In function block the log data for the comm session is linked in some manner to the profile. For example the length of the comm session the chronologic data for the comm session and any supplemental information is logged with that user. Usage codes are logged in the profile. Returning to step if the comm party is not a registered user see step the NO branch is taken. In step in one embodiment the system calls back comm party B. The call back may be an IVR telephone call to user B. Alternatively it may be an email sent to user B or some other comm channel inquiry. In any event function permits participant B to input a minimal amount of data into the system profile called a summary profile or S profile. An IVR process may be used if only the called party B phone number is available. An email with a link back to a web based server client input output data system may be employed. Further the certification system may utilize call centers to get the S profile data from unregistered comm party B.

Continuing with the acquisition program in at program element A step is a fraud and risk management module for the System Admin. The System Admin via its server at TTPS or AU center should monitor the comm event carefully. Monitoring the parties voices may be appropriate. Legal requirements may require notice and ACK to the communicating party prior to this monitoring. Periodically good practices would have the system check each of the parties comm device and each of the parties comm channel. This is to avoid multiple parties signing on to the comm session when only two parties or one party was initially approved for that comm session. Line check and IP address checks and ANI calling party and call party checks are appropriate. If a single party comm session is selected the system should check whether only one party is on the comm line by checking comm channel and comm device. If two parties are selected the comm channel and comm device should be checked and intra sessional voice charts should be checked during the session itself. It is known that different voices are used by different people and the system should check whether two voices have consistently been on the comm channel as compared to three or more voices. For group party comm sessions multiple checks may be appropriate.

In step the profile is annotated for each of the comm party if there is a deviation or a risk factor that has not been previously noted. The comm session record is noted for any risk factors or fraud. Again the 5W 2H decisional analysis is employed along with hierarchical rule based fraud check and AU ID checking. In step the system may challenge the comm session both in a pre comm session manner and intra sessional manner as well as a post comm session manner. This is particularly true if a sensitive or highly classified comm session is noted by the parties see the NDA example above and the System Admin believes that risk management to the system itself requires pre comm confirmation of certain aspects intra sessional confirmations or post comm session interventions. In step the system increments risk factors as necessary or decrements risk factors and recommends hierarchical AU ID for a party in view of higher incremental risk accepted by the System Admin. System defaults may be imposed to override user set controls to decrease system risk. A hierarchical based control modification routine is applied.

After the acquisition process the system activates the custody program module discussed in connection with .

Function block identifies some of the what factors. These include whether there is solely an audio component to the comm session or whether there is additional digital data to be exchanged by the parties. Storage and retrieval of ancillary non voice data is a what factor. Is all of the comm session being recorded or part of it. Who has access to the log data and for what purpose. Should the index markers be added to the reported comm session. What are the parameters of those index markers. Who has rights to access what documents that were exchanged during the conversation. What type of supplemental services should be provided along with the recorded comm session.

The where function block also discusses access to the certification system. Should access be given to any requesting party anywhere in the world or should it be limited to the United States or some other geographic territory. Where a participant is located when he or she has engaged in a comm session is important. What are the equipment limits for the comm session where is the equipment . What are the telecommunications limits for the comm session. Is it required that both parties have an Internet connection and a web based protocol to engage in the comm session where are the different comm channels . Are there geographic global limits on the comm session or the alternate comm channels Internet as an alternate compared to cell phone comm channels .

Function block addresses some of the when factors. The when factors involve what should be provided in a pre comm session. When in time are controls available to registered users or unregistered users. During the comm session itself what sort of control should be provided to each of the users. Should the registered users be provided more controls than the unregistered users. How can unregistered users be provided with controls that are greater than the registered users. In a post comm session what are the controls for storing the comm session for a long period of time. Who has access during that storage period. Who has the right to release or distribute the recorded version of the comm session. What is the time frame for that release permission. Who has the right to set the destruction time for the recorded comm session.

In the 5W 2H analysis is continued. Function block discusses why factors. There are legal requirements imposed if the parties acknowledge that there is a contract. E Sign laws and regulations are from the best practices standpoint required for this comm session. The why factors address the purpose of the comm session.

Functional block outlines some of the considerations for the why analysis in the 5W 2H decisional matrix factors. Accordingly legal requirements such as electronic signature laws or E Sign laws and contractual parameters statute of limitations which limit enforcement of contracts beyond 4 6 years are legal requirements that may be set as system defaults by the System Admin. Government requirements for HIPPA comm sessions may be a default. The category of the recorded content CNT also is a factor in establishing acquisition custody control release and distribution of the recorded content. The purpose of the recorded comm session is important. If the comm session is to record the exchange of confidential information under an NDA this may require a higher degree of authentication identification AU ID than a simple note taking session between two parties. The purpose of alteration supplementation and distribution is a factor. The same is true regarding access release distribution and retention. Risk management and the potential of user fraud is also a factor to be considered in establishing parameters such as what controls are provided to the user during the recording session what controls are provided after the recording session etc.

Function block analysis the how aspect of the decision making matrix. For example the comm device and comm channel is always a factor in establishing how much control is given to each user and where the controls are placed and how the user interface for the controls are presented to the user. There are certain system limits for example the size of the display screen on a smart phone compared to the size of a monitor on a PC. Poor comm channel quality may be a factor in permitting supplementation such as transcription or translation. Also the system may have a default such that with a poor communications channel the users must reboot and re authorize the recording. A no comm time out function is necessary in the event the parties or a single party having control do not initiate an OFF command CMD for the record function. How factors relate to which controls are given to which comm party the group associated with the user and the category of communications session. Again the category of the comm session is related to the category of the communication. Hardware limits at the central location the remote location and transmission quality between the central remote location should be taken into consideration in this decision making matrix.

Function step identifies how much factors. Access to the recorded comm session content may be altered. A summary may be provided to all participants but access to a translation transcription or supplementation as well as indexing may be limited only to the sponsor or host of the conversation registered user or to principal parties in a conference room recorded session situation. Access to the log data may be given to a wider group of comm participants as compared with access to the content itself. Log data does not include the comm session recording. Some of the segments or portions of the recorded comm session may be made available to one or more of the comm parties. Access to supplemental data is also a consideration in the how much decision making factor.

Step securely stores the comm session as well as the chronologic date and time as well as other logs such as geographic tags or trackers for each of the comm parties. The system may embed markers for authentication AU purposes in the recorded comm session. Some of these markers may be considered audio or digital audio watermarks or digital watermarks. In some instances encryption of the recorded conversation is appropriate based upon the decisional matrix factors 5W 2H. In other instances or in a best practices situation an archive ARCH is utilized by the system which compresses and distributes to multiple storage facilities the recorded comm session. A log of the archive is also created and stored.

Step stores all exchanged communication data. For example although two participants may engage in recording the voice communication during a comm session it is increasingly popular to exchange emails instant messages IM or text messages SMS as well as present information on a different comm channel than the recorded voice comm channel. Therefore the system can be configured to exchange not only the voice communications but also other data communications on different comm channels. This includes audio video audio and video all documents transferred between the parties white board information email information bulletin board information and in a highly developed system Internet search results displayed on a common screen to the participants. Screen shots of that web based presentation and search strings and retrieved documents may also be compiled by the sophisticated system.

Function block creates the authentication AU data. This includes in the best practice situation a hash code for the recorded comm session and for all data communications. Alternatively or in addition thereto word counts character counts and total time for the comm session is recorded.

The custody flowchart continues at Cu in step . The system maintains physical and electronic custody of the comm sessions and all the communications logs. Physical security such as locked the doors and electronic security such as passwords for e files and high level digital security is recommended. The recorder in the access module for comm session DB may be a physical lock box in the possession of the third party remote from the AU center . In this sense the recorder is a black box similar to the recording devices on airplanes. Function block relates to the remote storage of comm session data. This remote storage is discussed above in connection with and . In this situation when the recorded comm session is remotely stored apart from the central system operated by the System Admin the central system periodically checks the authentication of the recorded comm session when that recorded comm session is in a remote location. This AU content check may include a confirmation of the hash code. A log is created for these remote storage check events.

Although the concepts of custody are closely related to the concepts of control for the purposes of understanding the breath and the scope of the present invention minor overlap and separation of functions between the custody and control aspect is reasonable. Further the separation of the modules in is presented only to understand the invention. In practice the modules and submodules may be renamed and interspersed throughout the system without regard to the logical presentation herein. The organizational plan set forth herein only explains the features of the invention it does not dictate the best operational flow of data and control inputs and outputs for the invention. In practice the system may be reorganized in any efficient manner without regard to the major modules discussed herein related to acquisition custody control release distribution and ultimate document destruction retention protocol .

Function block again globally creates and maintains access logs for all recorded comm sessions. Function block from a global or high level prospective maintains the authentication ID AU ID for all persons who access the recorded comm sessions. Of particular note access is provided to the communicating parties such as the caller who initiated the recorded comm session the called communicating party second communicating party any group associated with the parties and the manager of the comm parties or supervisor. A hierarchical 5W 2H analysis can be employed in the AU ID process regarding access to the recorded communications.

Step recognizes that the record content has an access control. Step identifies that default access is provided to the recorded comm session. For example government requirements or legal requirements for E Sign may require that the calling party and the called party have full access to the entire recorded comm session. As a system default an NDA session limits recorded session access to just the communicating parties. The identify of each party having access to the recorded comm session should be authenticated by the system prior to permitting access. Supplemental AU ID for access may be required in certain situations. The supplementation may include a voice comparison of the party seeking access compared to the recorded voice which is part of the recorded comm session. Fraud issues activate on a hierarchical manner greater authentication routine. Risk management is also a factor. The authentication routines use the primary secondary and tertiary and all supplemental routines discussed above in connection with the acquisition module.

Step defines the user access to the recorded comm session. The user access control may be established or defined by the user in certain situations during a pre communication session. Notice to the called party of the access controls is typical. Approval by the called party for the access control is a best practice. During the comm session or intra sessional the user may define access controls. Notice and approval ACK of all the comm parties is reasonable. After the comm session has been recorded by the system the user may further define access controls in a post comm session as long as notice approval ACK and information is transparent to all comm parties. Of course in some situations like those discussed above in connection with the system would not give a particular comm party control over access to the recorded comm session. For example as discussed above in if user U is an investigator for an insurance company investigating the details of an accident or an automobile crash the user U should not be given the opportunity to change the access control to the recorded comm session. Further after a time acquisition time plus a set period the user U is no longer permitted any access to the record. This is a group defined access control. In this situation the group that is the insurance company who maintains agent control over investigator U sets the controls. Therefore the use of term user in the control module as well as throughout the entire invention includes the concept that the user is subject to strict group controls based upon the user s organization or status in connection with the group. In other situations such as a friendly conversation between two communicating parties each user may be provided with access controls such that the user can define the total access permitted in the pre intra sessional comm and post comm settings. Again notice to the comm parties and approval is a best practice.

Steps through provides a dynamic process for establishing user defined access. It should be noted that this dynamic process can be applied to various aspects of the invention whenever a user or group can affect or change a control parameter regarding acquisition custody control distribution different channel communications segmentation indexing archiving whatever. The dynamic process from through can be applied to various user selectable functions.

In step the system recognizes whether a dynamic setting is necessary. If not match detected by system the NO branch is taken and the system moves to step . If YES the system may employ one of at least two different processes. In YES branch Y the system executes step wherein one communicating party has selected a range value for a category or level of importance of a recorded comm session and in this example this selection is set during a pre comm session. As an example the user may select a value range for the importance of the comm session between 1 and 5. A 1 value indicates a high or critical importance whereas a 5 value recognizes a low importance comm session. Non numeric terms such as high medium or low may be used. In step the other communicating party selects his or her range or value for the comm session. The second party may set it during a pre comm session an intra sessional manner or post comm session. Typically the initiating comm party sets a value because he or she will initiate the comm session and therefore set up the base parameters for the comm session. The second communications party may have a pre set value if the second comm party is a registered user. Alternatively the first comm party may have notified the second party and the second comm party may have completed a summary or a S profile and set the value for the comm session in a pre comm session manner. An example of an intra sessional setting is when both parties have a dashboard or control panel on a website display on a PC and the comm parties are communicating through the web based portal or cell phone or different comm channel. The server at AU center serves a display to users A and B on the client computers used by users A and B. Users A and B select CMD or menu items on the PC and the client computers A B forward the same to the server at AU center . During the comm session one party may change the value or importance rating for the comm session. In a post communication session the second comm party would be given notice of the recorded comm session via email sms or various mechanisms including a call back from the system. The second comm party could select the value range either through IVR selection on a web based display or various mechanisms described herein. If the importance values for the content are identically set by both comm parties decision step notes the match. If YES the system moves to step for the post comm session event. If NO the system executes step which adjusts the selected value either assigning the highest value established by the comm parties or applying some rule based analysis. The system default rules apply matrix factors 5W 2H discussed above. If the system does not automatically apply caps or minimums or use the higher user input value or apply some other rule based hierarchical output to the differential inputs by comm party one and comm party two optionally step causes the system to move to jump point B at the YES Y branch leading from dynamic process step .

The second YES branch Y executes step which is an interactive question and answer process. The question and answer process may be web based enabling the user to select buttons preset or a menu selection or may be interactive voice based. For example the system may request from the user whether a contract is to be formed or the recorded comm session is pre contract negotiations or whether the recorded session is for notes or is an artistic recording. As discussed later the comm system can be utilized by an artist to record an oral record to document the creation date and content of an artistic event. The event may be audio AV multimedia or anything electronically recorded or recordable or transmittable. In step the comm parties select the answer for the question and answer. Once both parties have selected and completed the interactive question and answer from the system a decisional step determines whether there is a match. If NO the system executes step calling for an adjustment or reassignment based on the proper rule. If YES the system executes step which notifies the parties.

The foregoing dynamic decision making process can be applied to any user selectable control parameter described in this Certification System in any of the modules in . The SMI can be configured to present menu items or numeric range values to each user and based thereon the user can select the appropriate menu item for that control or operational parameter. If the communicating parties selections match then the system uses that parameter. If NO then the system activates the dynamic decision making process. In some instances the better practice will be for the system to select the more restrictive control selected by any particular party. In other instances the system may suggest a compromised parameter to each communicating party and after notice to the parties the parties then select YES or NO. When the system cannot automate the dispute resolution system defaults are applied. In some instances such as critical contract matters or in group conferences these differences may not be worked out and the system may default to NO Recording Permitted Dispute Pending Over XYZ Engage Dispute Resolution Process on the PC Dashboard. During the communication session the parties may resolve the acquisition custody control distribution or destruction dispute. The system is dynamic enough to accommodate these error events. Real time resolution of user disputes can be solved and system operational parameters set to an agreed level in real time by the intra sessional control panel and or the post comm sessional panel or IVR process. In a more sophisticated system the System Admin could engage a Q A session via IVR or call center action or electronic communication somewhat like a bid and ask multiple query communication to resolve any particular dispute. With operating experience the System Admin refines the menu selections and definitions and the user selectable control points. Therefore the best system will gather disputed control matters and simplify the menu selections to reduce the error disputes. In this iterative manner with the automated dynamic decision making process the system learns the disputed topics and re sets system defaults to reduce the error disputes.

As an add on to the foregoing the system may permit users to type in their thoughts on a control topic and after a sufficient data collection the system operator can list the top ten topics for that control feature. These top ten features then become selectable menu items. This free form data input process may be employed to develop classification categories to create a list of classes of communications. With system wide data collection once a class of communication has a reasonable number of user throughputs the system operator can then set system defaults for all basic control points for that class of communication. This free form input for classification is part of the invention to define classes and to better present a limited number of selectable controls to the user.

Continuing to flowchart Cntrl step addresses external or extrinsic defined access conditions. Access may be defined by a group having control over one or more users or may be imposed by government requirement statute or regulation or the category of the content record for the comm session may have defined parameters. For example E Sign laws and HIPPA regulations have certain defined statutory and regulatory access issues and there are best practices particularly in connection with HIPPA that the System Admin may impose for defining access to the recorded comm session. Step recognizes that the System Administrator is interested in any indicia of fraud in the communicating party profile or in the group grp for the comm party. Remote comm sessions are subject to security breaches into the data store. The System Admin must carefully control access to these remote comm storage locations. Risk analysis is appropriate for long term storage and ultimate retrieval and authentication purposes.

Step recognizes that the comm session might be subject to alteration addition and deletion. Each one of these tasks are subject to different degrees of control. For example alteration is the insertion of markers or indicia including segmentation of the comm record. The system logs all access events. If the AU ID of the party seeking access fails the system automatically increments AU ID task on a hierarchical basis. This is discussed above in connection with the acquisition module. If violations of AU ID are numerous the system default is No Access or Alternation Permitted. Default conditions are imposed for the alteration of recorded comm session for the addition or supplementation of those recorded comm sessions as well as control relating to deletion. The user to some extent may define alteration the addition of content and markers and segmentation. External or extrinsic factors affect the alteration adding or deleting of content or parts thereof as well as indexing. The System Admin will add nominal requirements established by the TOS or term of service. A log is created of all alterations and additions.

Step recognizes that the comm sessions are organized for review or retrieval by the comm parties. The organization is important to obtain reasonable access to the database of stored comm sessions. The comm sessions can be organized in a common format which is defined or controlled by the user. The user may select folders in which the comm sessions are placed as well as topics or directories. The user may also rearrange the recorded comm session by parties who participated in the comm session. The users may be subject to group defined format. This enables the manager of particular user to quickly locate a particular comm session. The second communicating party may have a different index folder for the recorded communication on the first party.

Step recognizes that the conversation might be supplemented and controls should be imposed on that supplementation. For example the supplementation could involve transcribing the recorded conversation translating the conversation from one language into another or an emotional analysis may be imposed on the conversation to better understand the parameters of the communication. These supplemental controls can be imposed prior to the comm session during the comm session intra sessional or after the comm session has ended. They may be user defined or triggered based upon a geographic indicator. For example when the user is registered and when the second communicating party is not in the U.S. the user defined default may automatically apply a translation supplementation. Further the user may want to record all voice communications between U.S. participants and non U.S. participants. For non U.S. comm sessions it may not be necessary to obtain the called party s consent ACK. This non U.S. event may be a user defined default which is triggered based upon the geographic data obtained from the second communicating party comm device. The supplementation may be triggered based upon a particular comm channel selected by the first communicating party or the second communicating party. The supplementation may be triggered based upon the particular comm device utilized. Also the comm parties may have a favorites list where whenever a first communicating party speaks with a second communicating party certain user defined controls are automatically implemented. For example in a divorce all communications between divorced parties may be subject to recording. Lastly the category of the content may automatically cause a supplementation command for transcription translation or emotional analysis. With respect to emotional analysis the emotional analysis may be turned ON automatically or may be automatically triggered not manually ON by user CMD based upon an ongoing voice analysis during the comm session. For example a scream may trigger the EMO ON task. The recorded comm session would be supplemented with emotional indicia characteristics to better assess the communications.

Continuing the control module in step the supplemental recorded comm session control enables the user or group or a default setting to automatically add an index to the recorded comm session. The index might be periodic markers audio or digital markers or it may be index points added by one or more of the users at important random times during the recorded comm session. The comm session may also be watermarked to enhance the ability of the System Admin to confirm and authenticate that the recorded reproduced conversation is identical to the acquired comm session. The watermarking may be automatic or may be imposed by the System Admin as part of the risk management or may be added to avoid fraudulent events.

Step recognizes that the system may supplement the recorded comm session with key words. The key word supplementation involves transcribing the recorded voice into an electronic text. Key words are extracted from or identified in the text either by the user by manual selection or user favorite list or dictionaries or white lists or black lists. The recorded comm session is then marked with the key word indicia much like a word index. In this manner the supplementation includes a key word index for the recorded comm session indicating where the key word is found in the comm session. The supplement marker is a time indicator marker in the recorded session or the marker could be to a page in the transcript such as done with depositions. Step recognizes that the comm session can be segmented. The segmentation can be done by the user as discussed above in connection with many of the control submodules pre session or intra sessional or post comm. The segmentation may be defined by the user or the system administrator or government requirements. Step is a fact check module. The fact check operates based on the key word process. For example if the key words extracted are names of individuals the fact check routine gets those individuals names conducts an Internet search to cross check whether the individuals do in fact belong to a certain organization or are otherwise connected in some manner as discussed during the comm session. Retrieved documents from the Internet search may further enhance the veracity of the statements made during the recorded voice communication. A report is generated for the fact check module . Step executes the custody log control and step jumps to the release module.

From decision step if there is a match between release and distribution requirements set by comm party one and comm party two the YES branch is taken and step applies any extrinsic or external distribution requirements. For example in recorded comm sessions involving emergency 911 calls it may be that these 911 recorded calls are released a set time period for example 48 hours after the recorded event in accordance with public records laws. Step indicates that time factors are imposed on the release and distribution. The time t may be calculated from the date of acquisition or from the time the recorded comm session was supplemented transcribed or indexed or otherwise accessed by the second communicating party. The total time in storage is also a factor in the release and distribution. Step addresses who is the party requesting the release and distribution. The AU ID of that requesting party as well as all the communicating parties is processed. The targeted party to get the authentic copy of the recorded comm session is subject to the AU ID process discussed above. Therefore all distribution is subject to the AU ID. In step the what decision process is implemented. Has the requesting party requested all content of the recorded session or part of it. Has the requesting party requested the access log to the recorded comm session. Does he want the recorded session and all supplemented materials key word fact checked or just the summary of the comm session. Step recognizes that a hierarchical or rule based process is applied to these factors. The 5W 2H factors and the decisional matrix is discussed above in connection with . These factors may be ranked and the AU ID protocol may be increased or decreased based upon a consideration of these factors. The purpose of the request and who is the requesting party and who is the party subject to distribution that is the targeted distribution party is a factor in determining the appropriate release and distribution. The user may have defined the release and distribution. If both parties are registered users they have defined full access within seconds of the completion of the recorded session. The second communicating party may only have a summary profile. A notice routine to the other party is activated see above in connection step through . An ACK subroutine may be added for risk management purposes.

Step is the when analysis. These release and distribution controls may be applied during a pre comm session in an intra sessional manner and during a post comm session. The System Admin will impose some nominal default settings or maximal caps on user distribution controls. Government or legal requirements may impose longer or stricter release and distribution controls. For example the release of recorded health information for HIPPA would be limited primarily to the patient who is the comm party. If the patient has recorded the comm and the system authenticates the ID of the patient s medical surrogate by medical appointment a registered approved agent of the registered patient user the appointed party may have access to that recorded comm session.

Step is the when analysis. The distribution controls may be imposed real time rt when the comm session is being recorded plus a user response time. For example the user may impose in real time that the recorded session is available to either party after 48 hours of the recorded session. During that 48 hour response time the second communicating party has access to the central system and provides a summary profile and has the opportunity to review the recorded conversation. Without regard to whether an S profile is complete within that 48 hours the comm session is available 48 hours after the recording because both parties agreed regarding that 48 hour distribution control. The distribution control may be limited such that the distribution only occurs when both comm parties have a distribution command CMD that match each other. The distribution control may be applied after a set time plus a supplemental add on time. For example transcription may require an additional three days before the recorded comm session is released.

Function block notes that the parties may modify the release and distribution. The modification of a release control for the recorded session is subject to a high AU ID protocol. A high degree of authentication of the communicating parties is necessary since a modification of the recorded comm session would be made. Notice to all the comm parties may be best practices. See steps . The modification of the comm session may in itself be a supplemental comm session record with the modification request. Step recognizes that the system may automatically impose a digital rights management DRM algorithm to the recording session. The DRM can be used to limit who can open and play the recorded session as well as to document access to the recorded session. Step is the how factor analysis. The distribution must be identified by distribution channel as well as the type of copy to be distributed whether subject to DRM or a copy content format such as a text pdf audio audio visual with or without watermarkings indexing marking as well as supplemental records. Step is the authentication. This creates a log for all copies distributed and the authentication of the targeted party subject to the distribution. An immutable authenticated copy of the comm session is made. The System Admin may certify the acquisition control custody and creation of the authenticated copy. Finally the authenticated copy is released.

In step the document retention or record retention and destruction functions are identified. The System Admin may have default settings such that all records are destroyed 20 years from the comm session. The default or destruction may be event defined user defined subject to external factors or subject to a 5W 2H analysis. The event conditions could be the categorization of the content. For contracts the parties should input into the system the term of the contract and therefore destruction of the record would take place within a set period of time after the term of the contract expires. For example if the statute of limitations is five year and the contract is enforceable during a two year period the destruction trigger is activated in seven years contract term plus statute time . If contract negotiations are being recorded the statute of limitations for oral contracts may be applied rather than the statute for written contract. For consumer transactions the system administrator may apply the term of service TOS default. For example the terms of service may call for destruction of the recorded comm session two years after the delivery of the goods or the services. HIPPA requirements may also be used as default. Of course the users may define to some extent the destruction of the record. The comm party notice routine discussed should be applied.

Step recognizes that notice may be given to the comm party of the destruction. Step permits comm party via a command CMD to reset the total storage time. Step after the destruction deadline passes destroys all recorded copies and scrubs all storage locations of that recorded comm session. Step compresses the data log and stores it for retrieval purposes.

The revenue module or flowchart is shown in . Other revenue systems can be utilized rather than the one described herein. In step a registered user selects a subscription plan with either a monthly reoccurring charge a per comm session charge or free samples of x units or x recorded time. Supplemental services may be selected by the user upon completion of the user s profile. Monthly and per comm session charges are paid to the System Admin. Step permits the user to update his or her profile. The registered user upon initiation of the comm session becomes the first communicating party. The second communicating party may be a registered user in which case the second communicating party enters the system prior to update profile . If the second communicating party is not a registered user that unregistered user may execute a pre communication summary profile as noted in step or a post communication summary profile as noted in step . The System Admin may provide the unregistered user with free samples either x comm session units or total comm time to engage and promote the non registered user to become a fully registered user. In either case from step and the non registered user has the option at to complete the profile at step . Upon completion of the full use of profile the user then becomes a registered user and can execute the subscription plan in step . With the registered user or a partly registered S profile user the system in step applies loyalties points or frequent flyer miles to the registered user account. In step the party dials in to a dedicated comm channel such as dedicated telephone line. The registered user has a communications channel charge and part of the money from that charge is given to the System Admin by the comm channel vendor. The comm channel vendor bills the DID user. This is the situation where a free conference call is employed. In a free conference call settings users dial in to a predetermined number and there are long distance charges associated to that number. The long distance charge fees are shared between the conference center calling System Admin and the comm channel vendor. In step the system calls out to a second communicating party to join the comm session. In this situation the registered first communicating party has input the called party s number and the system calls to that number. The call out is charged to the first communicating party s account. The System Admin receives some of this money and the comm channel vendor receives another portion of that money. Step increments the registered user loyalties points and profile based upon these communication events. Decision step in Rev flowchart determines whether either comm party has requested a supplemental service. If Y the user is charged at and money is distributed to the System Admin the supplemental service vendor the business affiliate and the comm party s user s profile is incremented with loyalty points. A business affiliate may share in the supplemental service if the business affiliate has promoted new supplemental service on the System Admin website. In other words if the business affiliate provides low cost transcription services and when of the comm parties in an intra sessional or a post comm setting selects the transcription from the sponsored ad by the affiliate the business affiliate of the System Admin is entitled to a referral fee for that supplemental service.

Decision step is activated either after the NO step from decision step or the charge user step . Decision step notes whether there is a request to supply an authenticated identification to a third party supplier. Third parties will pay the System Admin for the authenticated identity of persons involved in the system. If YES the System Admin receives some money for supplying the third party AU ID the third party AU ID vendor receives some money and the referred business affiliate receives some money. In either event from the YES or NO branch from decision the system in step certifies the recorded comm session records and certifies the identity of the communicating parties. This distribution event is all subject to an authentication certification request from a requester. The System Admin may charge a flat fee for certifying the comm session record or may base a fee upon the amount of time in storage or some cost plus factor. The authenticated identity may be subject to another add on charge. This is noted by jump point C immediately prior to decision step . Further the party requesting the certified record may request supplemental services. Jump point D immediately prior decision regarding supplementation is noted. Step notes that the System Admin may receive a license fee for licensing out the authentication program and licensing out the certification program. Remote program processes are subject to further license fees. These license fees may be a monthly fee or may be time based based on the amount of recorded comm storage or time in storage or may be based on per unit comm session or based upon record certification units. In other words the charges for the license may be nominal but the System Admin is paid upon certification of the recorded material. The System Admin may be paid when he or she authenticates a party s identity as noted in jump point C or when the supplemental services are provided as noted by jump point D.

Certification File. A means to date and time stamp delivery and or receipt of a file including a contemporaneous confirmation of the delivered content of the file. An example of Certification File use is the filing of copyright specimens for USPTO Provides the means for artists writers and creative individuals to document the date and time of first creation of a creative work song poem jingle etc. and verify the content of such a creation by recording the detail of the creative work in a phone call.

Certification Text This feature provides for users to send text messages to individuals and multiple parties through the Certification Call TTPS and have Certification Call maintain a long term secured record of the date and time the text message was sent received as well as the content and chronological flow of the text messages associated aspect can include hyperlinks contained in the SMS or MMS transmission to allow recipients of a Certification Text to retrieve identified Resources the access download of these resources are logged and become an aspect of the Certification Call distribution record where appropriate additional DRM features can be integrated into the Certification Text Resources.

Certification Blast a certified broadcast to identified users Initiating users can create an audio recording of a message representation directive set of facts etc. and have that recording delivered in a designated file format e.g. wav mp3 an email link to the recording played directly to the recipient over the telephone or sent with instructions which may or may not include DRM or security considerations such as a PIN for the recipient to listen to the recording over a telephone or Processed e.g. transcribed translated and emailed to defined users . User can designate distribution list and schedule of delivery. Also provides for determining and documenting that recipients received and accessed the recording.

Certification Poll Polling organizations can utilize this service to record and document called parties responses and comments to questions posed by the organizations and have a verifiable record of results that can be deemed to be certified results. Results can be Processed and organized into data arrays.

Certification Contracts. Users can activate Templates. The system provides for certain standard contractual agreements or compliance requirements e.g. sale of a car sale of household items realtor transactions work for hire agreements rentals compliance forms release of confidential information through NDA s consent forms to be conducted over the telephone using voice prompted templates.

Verified Video Provides verification of the date and time of a recorded video as well as the content and length of the video recording made over the Certification Call System. Also provides for option to authenticate parties to a video recording and certifies the location of the video with a GPS coordinated geo tagging utility.

E commerce Assurance Utility convenient way for users of a service like eBay or craigslist to confirm the identity of transactional partner and confirm operational details through an on demand Certification Call available as part of sponsoring service the ecommerce sponsor will allow Certification Call to have limited access to profile member account information to facilitate and authenticate identity and transactional information the foregoing functionality will also allow for user rating information.

Certification Shop or Certification Buy A method of making person not present or card not present purchases more secure easier faster and at the same time providing certain disclosures which the Certification Shopper affirmatively acknowledges. An individual becomes a Certified Shopper through the Certification Call enrollment and authentication process or through a federated authentication model. Certification Shoppers would shop and learn more about an item by accessing a Certification Call DID and entering a number they see unique to the product they want to purchase. They d hear a description and availability of the product and would be prompted to press a key to purchase. The buyer would be asked to confirm payment mechanism that would already be listed in their user preference in their account. An auto generated sales invoice receipt Certification Receipt could be sent either to their phone as text voicemail or an actual spoken automated phone call and also sent to their online account. They would then receive a special number to present to the merchant for pickup of their items or alternately they could choose to have the item Certification shipped to their address listed in their account. The item s tracking and arrival information would be sent either to their phone as text voice or an actual phone call and or to the User s account online.

Certification Ship Method of certifying shipment and delivery of goods and services purchased through telephonic and online means utilizing feature sets available from the System notification payment and certified delivery acceptance or fulfillment . The delivery may be notified to the recipient in a manner elected on the User Preference Panel. An acceptance verified by the authorized individual for the accepting party with a Certification Call made at the time of delivery can also integrate Processing such as voice biometric check to confirm that the person accepting delivery is the one allowed to accept. The Certification Ship can also record and archive a statement from the accepting party that the goods delivered conform to the expected delivery or some other confirmation. Where the identity of the person accepting delivery may be requested by the shipper the delivery courier can perform a Verified Video for example using an ordinary smartphone capturing the acceptance event and upload the video to the Certification Call System which in turn will time date stamp and geo tag the event.

Confidentiality Control with DRM. This format allows the user to establish a particular Certification call as a confidential communication. When the Confidentiality setting is enabled e.g. through the User Preference Panel the called party or other participating users receive a voice or visual disclosure that the call is confidential and will not be distributed to third parties without mutual consent . Certification Call will take precautions to ensure the archived recording has a digital rights management wrapper that discloses the Confidentiality status. Additional precautions available will include consistent with our TOS and enabled instructions of the Users restrictions on printing redistribution copy protection and or password protection other methods that inhibit viewing or publication of the Confidential Certification call without the express consent of all parties to the Confidential Certification call.

Certification Test Provides a telephonic or online methodology for identify verification of an individual to a test sponsored by a Certification Call sponsoring member where the individual s responses to test questions are recorded and documented and the time and date of such responses are archived in a secure manner consistent Certification Call s TOS and business practices. The risk management parameters of the Certification Test can be configured to record independent tracking variables to help ensure test administration guidelines are adhered to and to freeze out the prospect of the test taker receiving unauthorized assistance.

Certified Audits Provides the means for auditors to document management representations on specific financial matters and line items made to the auditor on a real time basis using various digital formats telephone video audio recording and have such documented files archived in a secure fashion for later retrieval. Such files will be certified for its contents and well as the logistics related to the creation of the file.

Certified Blogs Provides the capability to capture and store certain Blogs on a real time basis securely archive such Blogs verify the identity of the Blogger and provide a certified accurate transcript of the content of the Blog and its logistics.

Certified Voicemail Email Text messages documents photos etc. Provides the capability to confirm the content of Communications authenticate the source and verify the identity of individuals and entities sending information in various digital formats to third parties. Certification will also include verifying that the original file s have not been tampered with and are digital originals in all aspects.

Certified Transcripts Provides a means for organizations educational institutions legal entities and individuals to forward to designated recipients transcripts of performance or transcripts of conversations depositions and representations in such a way as to confirm and certify the source of the transcript and its contents.

Certified Survey Provides a means for certifying the results of a survey taken on various matters on an online face to face and or telephonic basis. Processing can include verifying the identity of the survey participants or confirming the eligibility of respondents to participate in the survey. Results can be securely archived and certified for later retrieval by sponsoring parties.

Certified Access Provides a means to verify on a real time basis the identity of an individual s seeking access to controlled or sensitive information and determine their authorized level of access to such information.

Certified Bids Provides the means by which parties bidding in a real time or staged auction by a professional organization or bidding on the sale of a certain item by an individual can have their identities verified and the logistics of their bid documented for accuracy and archived later review by third parties.

Certified Bets. Provides the means by which parties to a wager can verify the identity and location of the participating bettor as well as the terms communicated or associated with the wager and the financial status and banking arrangements of the participants. Wager results may be associated and or archived for later review or auditing by third parties.

Certified Funds Provides the means to confirm on the SMI or through other means the availability of funds payment or some other financial transaction status. Processing may include verification of the identity of parties wiring and receiving funds for various purposes and the associated logistics of the funds transfer as well as the source of funds used in the transaction.

Certified Accreditation Provides the means to verify the current financial status and credit history of individuals and maintains an accredited database or registry for verification by related and authorized third parties. Can be used for example to verify that individuals are accredited investors in accordance with regulatory requirements for prospective investment opportunities.

Certified Receipts Provides the means for documenting the logistics associated with the creation of a receipt its accuracy as well as the source of creation of the receipt. Receipts can be Processed to allow distribution to third parties.

Certified Archive Provides the means by which digital data stored and archived in various formats can be certified and Processed for example as to the date time and location via geo tagging such files were created that the original content has not been changed or tampered with and or the verification or certification of the identities of the parties creating or administering the data.

Certified Donation Provides the means to verify the identity of donors to a cause or organization as well as the amounts donated and the logistics associated with the financial transaction. This can be performed on a one time basis or a database can be created for donations made to the same organization or cause on regular intervals. In the case of restricted or regulated categories e.g. political donations the system can screen eligibility and track donation or contribution levels to meet sponsor criteria.

Certified Vote Provides the means for certifying the results of voting on particular matters e.g. on a local state federal and or social trade or organizational level as well as other Processing such as screening the identity or eligibility of the voters participating in the voting process. System can camouflage individual results of voting action and provide results in an aggregate fashion as well as reporting on participation vote no vote by individuals.

Certified Consent Parental consent surgery consent etc. Provides the means for Processing a confirmation of authorized consent regime. The identity of parties consenting to a certain action can be verified as well as the logistics and content communicated to the subject of such consent documented. Access to the SMI or other means to access or distribute information in a database of consents can be controlled such that only authorized parties to the information may gain access to that particular content or alternatively once consent has been satisfied the SMI can issue a code that can be communicated to a sponsoring organization that allows further progress.

Certified Seller Buyer Provides a means to verify the identity and confirm some aspect of the status of an individual or entity e.g. eligible financially reputable in business for specified time etc. Parties to a purchase sale transaction or some other interaction could access the System SMI or alternate database of certified or verified users. Processing options can include ratings for multiple transactions over time. Such transactions could be conducted telephonically online over the Internet or over broadcast television means.

Other applications are apparent from the following titles Certified Transcripts Certified Senders as in sending money or other valuables . . . maybe on ebay craigslist etc Certified TV 

Certified Payments Certified Voicemail Email Text Certified Access to certain documents or areas of a website Certified Documents Certified location Certified Photos Certified Surveys Certified Audits Certified Copies Certified Account Certified Bids Certified Bets Certified Blogs Certified Funds see also receivemoney.com bankbuddy.com etc. Cert quick e Certified Credit Card Certified Receipts Certified Archive Certified Donation Certified Vote Certified Consent Parental consent surgery consent etc. and Certified Seller Buyer. The present invention relates to a data system a methodology of securing data on a personal computer PC system on a computer network LAN or WAN and over the Internet and computer programs computer modules and an information processing system to accomplish this system. In addition to the computer implementation of the inventive aspects of this invention a business method is also encompassed herein.

It is important to know that the embodiments illustrated herein and described herein are only examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings set forth herein. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed inventions. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others. In general unless otherwise indicated singular elements may be in the plural and vice versa with no loss of generality. In the drawings like numerals refer to like parts or features throughout the several views.

The present invention could be produced in hardware or software or in a combination of hardware and software and these implementations would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The system or method according to the inventive principles as disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments may be produced in a single computer system having separate elements or means for performing the individual functions or steps described or claimed or one or more elements or means combining the performance of any of the functions or steps disclosed or claimed or may be arranged in a distributed computer system interconnected by any suitable means as would be known by one of ordinary skill in the art.

According to the inventive principles as disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments the invention and the inventive principles are not limited to any particular kind of computer system but may be used with any general purpose computer as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art arranged to perform the functions described and the method steps described. The operations of such a computer as described above may be according to a computer program contained on a medium for use in the operation or control of the computer as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The computer medium which may be used to hold or contain the computer program product may be a fixture of the computer such as an embedded memory or may be on a transportable medium such as a disk or CD as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Further the program or components or modules thereof may be downloaded from the Internet of otherwise through a computer network.

The invention is not limited to any particular computer program or logic or language or instruction but may be practiced with any such suitable program logic or language or instructions as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Without limiting the principles of the disclosed invention any such computing system can include inter alia at least a computer readable medium allowing a computer to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may include non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory floppy disk disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. Additionally a computer readable medium may include for example volatile storage such as RAM buffers cache memory and network circuits.

Furthermore the computer readable medium may include computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

In the drawings and sometimes in the specification reference is made to certain abbreviations. The following Abbreviations Table provides a correspondence between the abbreviations and the item or feature.

The claims appended hereto are meant to cover modifications and changes within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

