---

title: 3-stage temperature control valve
abstract: A temperature control valve that effectively manages fluid pressure therethrough, including pressure differentials which may exist therein, such as from the upstream port to the downstream port, and about a piston slidingly disposed therewithin proximate a fluid flow path. In one embodiment a 3 stage valve is provided whereby fluid flows therethrough when the piston is in a first position, fluid flow is inhibited in a second piston position, and an override third position whereby fluid flows therethrough. When the piston is in the second position, the fluid pressure differential across the piston is balanced and an axial spring force on the piston is relatively small, thereby reducing any subsequent axial force required to advance the piston to the third free flow position, and allowing the valve to be comprised of cheaper materials including plastic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08464962&OS=08464962&RS=08464962
owner: Showerstart, LLC
number: 08464962
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 788 884 filed Apr. 23 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 878 417 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 794 735 entitled TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED RESTRICTIVE VALVE filed Apr. 25 2006 which application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 154 404 filed Jun. 15 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 681 804 which claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 655 192 filed Jan. 14 2005 the specifications of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is generally related to restrictive valves and more specifically to controlled fluid flow restrictive valves with a temperature controlled cutoff port including a resettable release mechanism for overriding the temperature controlled flow cutoff port.

It is often necessary in both consumer and commercial contexts to wait for a water source to reach a suitable temperature prior to use. For example it is very common for an individual to turn on the hot water in the shower or at a sink and then wait for an extended length of time until the water is at the correct temperature.

Additionally vast amounts of water and energy are wasted each year due to the delay in receiving water at the correct temperature. That is as most individuals are reluctant to stand by the shower and continuously monitor the water temperature for many minutes a significant amount of hot water is simply lost down the drain. This increases both water costs as well as heating costs. Multiplied by the number of individuals that must engage in this practice on a daily basis the waste is significant.

A flow control valve utilized in a household such as to provide the delivery of water to a shower head typically sees a water pressure of at least 100 psi. This high water pressure can affect the operation of the water control valve when it includes moving parts. For instance the pressure at an upstream port relative to the pressure at a downstream port can negatively affect the performance of the shut off valve. Moreover this high pressure can require operational portions of the valve to be comprised of more expensive and stronger materials to withstand any pressure differentials between the upstream port and the downstream port.

There is desired an improved controlled restrictive valve that effectively manages a pressure differential which is simpler in design and which can be made of less expensive materials such as plastic.

The present invention achieves technical advantage as a temperature control valve that effectively manages fluid pressure therethrough including pressure differentials which may exist therein such as from the upstream port to the downstream port and about a piston slidingly disposed therewithin proximate a fluid flow path. In one embodiment a 3 stage valve is provided whereby fluid flows therethrough when the piston is in a first position fluid flow is inhibited in a second piston position and an override third position whereby fluid flows therethrough. When the piston is in the second position the fluid pressure differential across the piston is balanced and an axial spring force on the piston is relatively small thereby reducing any subsequent axial force required to advance the piston to the third free flow position and allowing the valve to be comprised of a cheaper material such as plastic.

Only one moving part is provided within the valve body namely the piston. A temperature controlled actuator such as paraffin actuator is configured to axially advance the piston as a function of the fluid temperature. When the fluid temperature reaches a predetermined temperature the actuator advances the piston to the second position. A piston spring is biased against the piston and which spring force is overcome when the upstream fluid pressure is permitted to be provided to a proximal end of the piston this fluid pressure advancing the piston to the third position. When the piston is in the second position the differential pressure between the piston proximal end and the piston distal end is substantially equal. This configuration allows the piston the valve body and other valve materials to be comprised of less expensive plastic materials.

Referring now to there is shown an exploded view of a first embodiment of the present invention assembly. The valve assembly is comprised of the following components a main body rear a main body O ring a slide spring a slide a slide O ring a piston spring a piston two piston O rings a screen a body front an actuator a release pin a release pin spring and a pin retention ring . The valve assembly housing is comprised of the following components a housing first part a housing second part and a handle .

The main body O ring slide spring and the longer end of the slide are operably inserted into the wider threaded end of the body rear . The main body is comprised of body rear and body front . The piston spring a first piston O ring the piston and a second piston O ring are operably inserted into the wider threaded end of the body rear . The screen and the slide O ring are operably inserted into the wider end of the body front . The wider threaded end of the body rear is operably coupled to the wider end of the body front to enclose the aforementioned components. The temperature sensor and actuator is operably inserted into the narrower end of the body front . The release pin is operably inserted into body rear with the release pin spring . The housing first part and the housing second part are operably coupled to substantially enclose the valve assembly and the handle is operably coupled to the release pin . In one exemplary embodiment a handle screw is used to operably couple the handle with release pin .

Body rear further includes main body outlet port A release pin housing B spring retainer D and stop lip C. Slide further includes slide nose A slide head B slide head lower surface C hollow slide body D and slide ports E for controlling the flow of water through the valve assembly. Piston spring is dimensioned for receipt into hollow slide body D and to abut at a front end piston base B and at a second end spring retainer D. Piston includes piston head A piston base B piston stem C and piston head cavity D. Piston head A includes a piston head cavity D for receipt of actuator nose B there into. Body front includes body end shoulder A capable of receiving and stopping the motion of slide as urged in an upstream direction by slide spring . Body front also defines at an upstream end inlet port B. Body front is seen to have threaded walls for threaded engagement with body rear . Actuator is seen to have threaded walls A for threaded engagement with threaded walls C of body front . Actuator also has actuator nose B shaped to fit snug within piston head cavity D as seen in for example. also illustrates a channel E see also through piston head A which will allow a small amount of water to flow through the valve even when in the shutoff position illustrated in .

Left in the condition as illustrated in that is with override locked out or disengaged the only way water will resume flow is subsequent cooling allowing hose to retract which will allow piston spring to move piston and uncover slide ports E allowing flow to resume through the hollow section of slide body D and piston and out through outlet port A and body rear .

The user can adjust the water mix to the desired temperature above or below the cutoff temperature when in the bypass engaged condition illustrated in . When the user is through with showering the user will simply shut off the mixing valves which are typically upstream of valve assembly . At this point no low water flow slide spring will allow slide to move to the left or upstream. When slide head B abuts shoulder A release pin under the impetus of release pin spring will move to the lockout position as illustrated in thus automatically resetting the override to a pre override position. While the drop in hydraulic pressure allows the slide to move up to the pre override position other mechanical or electrical means may be used to achieve this function including direct mechanical engagement with the mixing valves or position pressure sensors combined with actuators to move the slide.

Whereas illustrates a pair of O rings fitted by compression to grooves in outer walls of piston it is seen with respect to that a piston gland O ring may be provided fittable to a groove on the inner walls of piston head A. Gland O ring will make contact with the actuator nose B as seen in . Thus it is seen the embodiment illustrated in has a piston with three O rings two on the outside and one gland O ring on the inside to contact the actuator. The two on the outside will be maintained in their groove under compression and will contact the inner walls of the slide as seen in A and B for example.

The use of the gland O ring is to help seal off water the use of the three O rings including the ones at the ends of the piston will help provide a cushion and a drag that will provide dampening and thus help reduce the likelihood from hammering that may occur.

Details of a release assembly whose function it is to release slide and therefore activate the bypass or override function as seen in are seen to include handle screw for engaging handle and extending therethrough to engage release pin threaded portion C of release pin . Pin cylinder cap having cap threaded area A screws into a threaded area on release pin housing B of body rear . With this it can be seen that the release pin spring will act on release pin land B. Thus in the valve assembly a release pin actuated by a handle the release pin having cam pin will always urge release pin towards an engaged or interference position as illustrated in . It is seen that release pin has a hole D in release pin arm A to receive cam pin shown in and would be perpendicular to release pin arm A and extend through the hole B. As seen in cam is insertable into release pin housing B and has boss A that will seat into the hole G slots in the base of release pin housing B. Central opening C in cam is dimensioned to allow arm A to extend through the cam and through opening E in the base of release pin housing B so as to be capable of reaching the position which locks out the override A and B .

On the other hand as seen in Applicants valve assembly may be downstream from mixing valve and in line with a delivery conduit . In it is seen that valve assembly is downstream of a mixing valve and upstream of a showerhead not shown .

The embodiments illustrated see for example show that Applicants temperature sensing mechanism for example actuator is advantageously but not necessarily placed in the most upstream position so a to better respond to temperature changes and avoid the heat sink effect of elements downstream of the actuator. Further it is seen that Applicants sensor is pushing the piston in a downstream direction as it expands that is pushing in a direction that is assisted by the water pressure moving the piston as illustrated in the drawings from left to right. Actuator is in one embodiment a wax actuator adapted to respond by expanding in a range of approximately 90.degree. F. to 110.degree. F. such as an actuator manufactured by Vernet as Model Nos. A034 and A092 P. Element both senses temperature changes and responds as by expanding or contracting to such change. The sensing and actuating functions may be achieved through separate elements however. Other temperature actuators sensors such as a temperature responsive memory wire a bimetallic element or other known and appropriate temperature responsive phase change materials or electromechanically operated temperature sensors may be used in conjunction with Applicants novel valve assembly such as those known in the art.

As seen with reference to the Figures the slide will typically have an upstream slide head area that is responsive to water pressure in urging the slide to a downstream direction. Likewise the piston typically would have an area exposed to water pressure upstream that would tend to move it to a downstream position. In Applicants novel valve such area on the slide here seen to be an annular ring is significantly larger than the piston head area.

While the grasping member to the release of the override feature is illustrated to be a handle the override feature may be actuated with a lanyard chain electronic button switch and optical or other sensor. Moreover a visual audible indicator see may be used to indicate that the shower is ready that is when the temperature actuator has restricted the flow of water . Indeed a visual or audible reminder may be used including a popout indicator or a constant or blinking light. Temperature or pressure actuated visible or audio indicators may also be used.

As is illustrated Applicants novel valve may be located in between the shower arm and the showerhead using matching threads. It may also be incorporated into the showerhead. Applicants novel valve assembly may be retrofittable to many shower arms by removing existing threaded showerheads and inserting in the space between the showerhead and the end of the shower arm Applicants novel valve and threading the showerhead to the downstream end after threading the valve into the end of the threaded end of the shower arm. The valve may also be built into the shower arm or shower stall tub walls see .

Referring now to there is shown another preferred embodiment of the present invention depicted as valve wherein like numeral refer to like elements. Valve is seen to comprise of a body front threadably received into the proximal end of main body whereby an upstream port is defined at a proximal opening of front body . Axially disposed in a central cavity of main body is seen a stationary sleeve having a slidable piston axially disposed therein. Piston has a recessed middle portion defined between a pair of O rings and forming an annular fluid passageway between the piston middle portion and the opposing inner wall of sleeve as shown. A fluid passageway is defined between the outer surface of sleeve and the inner wall of main body . The sleeve has a first set of openings extending therethrough communicating the piston fluid passageway with the sleeve passageway . The sleeve further includes a second set of openings extending thru the sleeve wall distal of openings and a third set of openings extending thru the side wall thereof distal openings . An annular passageway is defined between the sleeve body and the main body at a distal end of sleeve and which is in fluid communication with openings . An O ring is provided in an annular raised portion of the sleeve providing a fluid seal between the sleeve and the main body . This annular raised portion of sleeve is defined between the second set of openings and the distal third set of openings as shown.

The temperature sensitive actuator as previously described is axially disposed through sleeve and the actuator nose B engages a distal end of piston as shown. An actuator spring is disposed about actuator nose B and creates a spring force between an actuator nose cap and the inner distal wall of piston as shown. A plurality of openings are defined through a proximal end of sleeve and provides fluid communication from the upstream port to the fluid passageway about sleeve as previously discussed. A fluid screen is disposed across openings as shown. Piston spring is seen to be axially positioned within main body and engages an anterior shoulder of main body as well as an annular shoulder of piston . Piston spring is configured to resist the distal advancement of piston and urge the piston back to its first position as shown in when fluid pressure is removed from the upstream port. However piston spring permits the piston to advance to its second position as shown in as the actuator nose B distally extends as fluid temperature increased.

Main body is seen to include a threaded extension configured to receive a radially extending pin extending through a main body opening as shown. The pin has a distal tip portion extending into a proximal sleeve opening and has a seal ring disposed about the pin tip to provide a fluid seal thereabout. A handle collar is threadably coupled to the extension and has an opening configured to receive the pin . A fastener such as a screw secures the handle to the pin . Handle has a lever arm portion configured to facilitate rotation of the handle and pin to advance the piston to the third position as shown in . Main body is also seen to have a threaded distal end threadably receiving an o ring disposed thereabout a collar and a ball member secured thereabout so as to couple to a showerhead. The valve may be positioned in a hot cold water mixing valve to create a unitary structure as shown in .

Valve is configured to operate in three positions with the first position being shown in . In this first position the piston is positioned at a proximal end within sleeve and fluid is permitted to flow from the upstream port to the downstream port as shown by the arrows depicting fluid flow. Specifically fluid is permitted to flow from the upstream port through the sleeve openings into sleeve passageway through the intermediate openings into a sleeve cavity back through the distal openings through annular passageway behind the distal end of sleeve and through distal passageway to the downstream port . The first position depicted in illustrates the free flow of fluid when the temperature of the fluid is below a predetermined temperature and the actuator nose B is retracted as shown. The fluid pressure at the upstream port depicted as P provides the pressure creating the fluid flow therethrough. It is noted that this pressure P is also communicated to the piston passageway and thus there is no differential pressure between the piston flow passageway and the distal sleeve passageway .

Referring now to there is shown a second valve position whereby the fluid flow has reached the predetermined temperature causing the actuator nose B to responsively extend the piston to the second position. In this second position the distal piston O ring provides a liquid seal distal of the intermediate openings such that fluid cannot flow past the piston to the downstream port . Rather fluid is communicated from the upstream port through proximal sleeve openings to sleeve passageway and through both openings and and terminating within piston passageway as shown. Of note is that no fluid pressure P is provided to a cavity defined between the piston and a proximal wall of the sleeve . In the second position the actuator nose B is at its maximum distal position and thus the piston does not extend distally further than the position shown in . There is also no fluid pressure in sleeve chamber and thus there is no differential pressure across the piston between sleeve passageway and sleeve cavity . However the pressure P is provided about the piston to the fluid passageway and between the pair of piston O rings . Hence the only axially force on piston is the biased force of piston spring j. As seen in this second position the release pin remains in its extended position and into sleeve opening .

Referring now to there is shown a third position whereby the handle is manually rotated to responsively retract the distal tip of pin from the sleeve opening permitting fluid and the pressure P from the upstream port to be communicated through opening to the sleeve proximal chamber . By providing fluid and the fluid pressure P to be communicated to cavity this fluid pressure P overcomes the piston spring force of spring and the piston responsively extends distally to a third position such that it engages body shoulder as shown. When the piston is in this third position the fluid pressure P is also provided to sleeve passageway the proximal openings into chamber . The fluid is then permitted to flow through the valve through the front body openings seal passageway intermediate sleeve openings piston passageway distal sleeve openings annular passageway behind the distal end of sleeve and piston passageway to downstream port . When piston is in this third distal piston the differential fluid pressure across the piston from chamber to passageway and is almost nothing is negligible. Thus when the piston is in any of the three positions shown in and the differential pressure across the piston is negligible. Advantageously this permits the piston to be comprised of cheaper materials including plastic as it is not subject to significant forces that would otherwise require it to be comprised of a stronger more expensive material such as a metal. Similarly no slide spring is required and thus the sleeve the main body the pin and front body can also all be comprised of cheaper and moderate strength materials such as plastic. As shown in the simple retraction of the pin simply allows the pressure P to advance the piston and the pin is not required to experience or resist any other forces.

To reset the valve fluid pressure simply removed from the upstream port thus removing the pressure P from chamber allowing the actuator to cool such that the nose B retracts and the piston urges the piston back to its first position shown in . The handle can be simply rotated back to its normal position shown in as well. It is noted that the handle includes an extension that rotatably engages a cam such that the pin is retracted when rotated as shown in .

Advantageously the actuator pin acts as a pressure relief for the valve whereby if the valve is in position where the water flow is essentially stopped and the mains pressure is very high over 100 psi for example the pin acts against a pin spring disposed thereabout. When pressure is high enough the pin opens the actuation port and opens the valve thus removing the pressure and protecting the valve. ASTM certification requires that this valve withstand 300 psi and hence this arrangement advantageously allows the valve of the present invention to comprise of a cheaper plastic and yet meet the ASTM requirements.

Also shown in is a small opening operating as a piston port extending between chamber and a piston recess proximate piston spring to allow a trickle flow of fluid thru the valve body. This piston port allows the piston to retract after water flow stops. Otherwise the valve would have a hydraulic lock condition. There is also shown the piston having a small opening extending through its wall proximate the piston flow passageway such that when the piston is in the second position as shown in a small leak flow of fluid is permitted from the upstream port to the downstream port as required by regulations.

Advantageously the valve has only one moving part namely the piston. Advantageously the piston is axially balanced meaning that there is no significant differential pressure between the proximal end thereof and the distal end thereof in any of the three positions. These is a significant technical advantage since the piston and other valve elements can be made of less expensive materials including plastic yet withstand the significant pressure of fluid passing therethrough even when the fluid flow is restricted. The piston is configured such that the piston seals experience wear over time and the springs and expand and retract during operation. The result is a highly reliable and inexpensive temperature controlled restrictive valve.

Though the invention has been described with respect to a specific preferred embodiment many variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the present application. The intention is therefore that the appended claims be interpreted as broadly as possible in view of the prior art to include all such variations and modifications.

