---

title: Underwater RFID arrangement for optimizing underwater operations
abstract: A method and system to optimize underwater operations utilizing a radio frequency identification (RFID) arrangement. The RFID arrangement includes a plurality of RFID tags positioned on an underwater surface, with each of the plurality of tags coded with unique information related to each tag's location on the underwater surface. The RFID system also includes an RFID reader/interrogator attached to an underwater explorer. When the underwater explorer is within a reading range of a tag, the reader/interrogator reads the unique tag information. The tag information is used to optimize underwater operations performed by the explorer, which may be a diver or a water vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536983&OS=08536983&RS=08536983
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08536983
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 254 868 entitled Underwater RFID Arrangement for Maximizing Underwater Vessel Operations filed Oct. 26 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application No. 61 328 440 filing date Apr. 27 2010 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Miniature Robotic Hull Grooming Vehicle by joint inventors William Martin Hertel III Donald T. Darling and Kenneth W. Holappa.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to an underwater radio frequency identification RFID arrangement for optimizing underwater operations and in particular an RFID arrangement including a plurality of RFID tags carrying unique information and an RFID reader interrogator for reading the unique information carried on the plurality of tags.

Current and previous methods of determining a precise location of a vehicle when underwater on a ships hull or the vehicle s direction of travel on the hull are based on acoustic or sonar systems. These systems transmit hi frequency sound waves through the water and register the vibrations reflected back from the desired object. Positioning is then determined by sonar triangulation a surveying method that provides coordinates of where the desired object is in reference to a baseline station which acts as a marker or reference point for navigation. A basic system would consist of fixed and mobile transponders beacons and a computer with a software program that determines the relative position of the mobile transponder s in relation to the fixed one.

There are several disadvantages associated with these types of systems. First they use active high powered systems that transmit sound waves underwater which is not desired. Additionally these systems are expensive and high maintenance. For example in order to work properly these systems require continual re deployment and calibration of the beacons. Also a large learning curve for the operators is also required.

In one aspect the invention is an underwater operations optimization system. The system includes a water vessel having a submerged hull surface. The system also includes a plurality of underwater radio frequency identification tags positioned along the submerged hull surface. In this aspect each tag of the plurality of tags has unique identification data related to the positioning of said tag on the hull surface. According to the invention the system further includes an underwater explorer for travelling along the submerged hull surface. The underwater explorer includes a radio frequency identification reader for reading the unique identification data of each tag when the reader comes within a reading range.

In another aspect the invention is an underwater location system. The underwater location system includes a plurality of underwater radio frequency identification tags positioned along an underwater surface. In this aspect each tag of the plurality of tags has unique identification data related to the positioning of the tag on the surface. The underwater location system also includes an underwater explorer for travelling in close proximity to the underwater surface. The underwater explorer includes a radio frequency identification reader attached thereon for reading the unique identification data of each tag when the reader comes within a reading range as the underwater explorer travels in close proximity to the underwater surface.

The invention relates generally to an arrangement that uses radio frequency identification RFID technology to optimize underwater operations by determining an exact underwater location of an underwater explorer. The arrangement may also optimize underwater operations by determining orientation and direction of motion of the underwater explorer. is an exemplary illustration of such a system. illustrates an underwater location system utilizing an RFID arrangement according to an embodiment of the invention. As shown the system includes a submerged surface . The surface may have any desired geometry. The surface may be the surface of a water vessel such as a ship or a submarine or the like. Alternatively the surface may be a non vessel surface such as a submerged surface at a dock a dam wall or even the surface of an object.

The RFID tags are positioned at precise predetermined positions along the surface . Each location is distinct not only because of the position on the surface but also because of the topography or other characteristics of the surface at that particular location. Each RFID tag carries unique identification data related to its location. As outlined below the mobile underwater unit includes an RFID reader interrogator so that whenever the mobile unit comes within a passive reading range of a tag the reader receives the unique identification data of that tag and based on the reception of that data the mobile unit is able to determine its actual location.

According to the embodiment of the mobile underwater unit is a hull grooming unit that is provided to remove fouling from the hull surface and to suppress the growth of early stage fouling. As shown in the magnified view the hull grooming unit includes one or more low pressure devices and wheels for maintaining proper contact with the hull surface brushes for removing and suppressing fouling and an optional umbilical . The hull grooming unit may also include grooming and cleaning tools such as jets thermal and irradiative applicators and the like and combinations thereof. The grooming unit may also be equipped with a sensor suite enabling hull inspection functions in addition to grooming functions. The components of the hull grooming unit including sensors for differentiating between groomed and dirty portions of the hull surface are disclosed in related U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 328 440 entitled Miniature Robotic Hull Cleaning System which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it discloses.

According to the embodiment of each RFID tag has a unique identification number and ship location information programmed thereon. Thus for example if a tag is positioned at an upper edge of the keel at a rudder at a propeller or at an edge of an intake opening that specific information related to the location at the keel at a rudder at a propeller or at an edge of an intake opening is associated with the unique identification number. RFID tags may have any desired dimension. As outlined below the tag data is used to identify the location of the hull grooming unit on the surface and to provide navigational input.

As shown in the hull grooming unit which may be remotely autonomously or diver controlled further includes an RFID reader for detecting the RFID tags which are preferably LF passive tags. As the hull grooming unit traverses submerged portions of the hull surface the reader detects the tags and gathers the information thereon as the reader moves within a passive detection range. The passive detection range is dependent upon a number of variables including size form and fit of the RFID tags as well as reader antenna design orientation etc. According to an embodiment of the invention the passive detection range is up to about 18 inches in calm conditions and up to about 12 inches in condition in which cavitation is experienced. According to this embodiment the hull grooming unit travels at about 0.5 m s. As outlined above each RFID tag has a unique identification number and ship location information programmed thereon each providing a virtual signpost as to where the hull grooming unit is located at a particular time. The reader transmits the current RFID tag information to a host device . The host device includes a system specific database that correlates that tag information to the actual hull position where the RFID tag was placed by utilizing a lookup table for example.

The main memory functions as a primary storage and may be a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM or a combination thereof. The removable storage device provides additional data storage and may be a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM magnetic tape flash memory PC CARDS or other portable storage device or combinations thereof. The input device may be a keyboard touchpad mouse joystick a remote device a microphone or combinations thereof. The input display may be a LCD flat panel display etc. According to an embodiment of the invention the display may also be an input device such as a touch screen display.

As stated above the host device is equipped to and runs one or more system specific hull positioning programs for determining the exact location of the hull grooming unit on the hull surface . The one or more hull positioning program may be stored on any of the computer readable mediums outlined above in the main memory and or the removable storage device . shows the host device interfacing with the hull grooming unit via the input output bus . The interface between the host device and the hull grooming unit may be a wireless interface such as the well known Infrared Data Association IrDA interface or a Radio Frequency RF interface such as the well known Bluetooth RF interface. In embodiments in which the hull grooming unit is equipped with an umbilical the interface between the host device and the unit may be a wireline interface such as a universal serial bus USB which may be Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 Enhanced Parallel Port EPP Small Computer System Interface SCSI or Integrated Drive Electronics IDE connectors.

The hull grooming unit is also provided with a navigation program stored on the memory which together with the RFID reader functions as a navigation system. The navigation system utilizes data received by the RFID reader to aid navigation and ultimately grooming operations of the hull grooming unit. As outlined above the RFID tags are positioned at specific locations along the surface of the hull with each RFID tag carrying information specific to its location thus allowing each tag to act as a virtual signpost. According to an embodiment of the invention the tags are positioned so that only one tag at a time is within the detection range of the RFID reader . This allows the RFID reader to track and update location data one tag at a time.

As the hull grooming unit travels along the hull surface the RFID reader detects the tags and transmits tag information to the host device via the interface . As stated above the host device includes one or more system specific hull positioning programs. The output data stream of the hull grooming unit is calibrated by the one or more hull positioning programs used in real time to provide the actual location tracking of the unit . The location tracking may be accomplished by the one or more system specific hull positioning programs by correlating the tag information to the actual hull position where the RFID tag was placed via a lookup table for example.

Regarding the one or more system specific hull positioning programs associated with the host device any verified system specific hull or vessel positioning program such as NAVMODEL for example may be employed. NAVMODEL is a U.S. Navy hull modeling software application that can when used in conjunction with an acoustic type navigation system indicate the precise location of a surveyed fixed point on various ship hull types. When executing the hull positioning program such as NAVMODEL the CPU loads processor instructions from a computer readable medium and executes the program instructions in a known manner. The computer readable medium utilized may be the main memory which may be RAM or ROM. The computer readable medium may also be the removable storage device which may be a CD ROM magnetic tape flash memory PC CARDS or other portable storage devices.

The navigation system of the grooming unit which includes the navigation program and the RFID reader is compatible with the one or more system specific hull positioning programs and may be a Short Base Line SBL or Long Base Line LBL based acoustic navigation system. Such an acoustic based navigation system would have a desired intrinsic bandwidth which would allow for reliable two way communications and precision timing. The actual location of the grooming unit as calibrated by the one or more hull positioning programs of the host device may be used by an operator or by the navigation system of the hull grooming unit to control subsequent movement of the grooming unit .

According to another embodiment in addition to the dispersed RFID tag the hull surface may also include tag clusters as shown in . As outlined above each RFID cluster is made up of a plurality of RFID tags arranged in a tight knit close arrangement in which the RRID tags of the cluster are arranged closer than RFID tags that are not arranged in a cluster. Because of the close arrangement of the tags in the cluster typically more than one of the tags in a cluster maybe detectable by an RFID reader at a given time. Additionally because of the proximity of RFID tags with respect to other RFID tags within a cluster tags may be sequentially readable by an RFID reader at predetermined intervals which is not possible with RFID tags that are not in a cluster . The sequence in which a two or more RFID tags within a cluster are read may be used to the direction of travel and the orientation of the hull grooming unit .

As outlined above the hull grooming unit may be remotely controlled diver controlled or may be autonomous. When the hull grooming unit is remotely controlled the arrangement of may be used with an operator having access to the remotely located host device . According to this embodiment the hull or vessel positioning software such as NAVMODEL monitors the data produced by the navigation system in real time and uses the data to update the information presented to an operator. The position of the grooming unit with respect to the hull surface may be shown on the display which may provide a virtual replication of the submerged hull surface and the location of the underwater vessel thereon. Based on the displayed representation of the grooming unit with respect to the hull surface the operator may enter navigational directives via the input or according to operational desires. Thus for example if the display indicates that the hull grooming unit is approaching an intake or a moving part such as a rudder the operator may enter a command to reduce the speed stop the advancement or alter the path of the unit . If there are no obstacles to be avoided the operator may allow the unit to continue on a predetermined path. A similar process occurs when the unit is operated by a diver. When operated by a diver the arrangement of may be used.

In embodiments in which the hull grooming unit is autonomously controlled the navigation system may be equipped with a fixed position reference sensor. When equipped with the fixed position reference sensor the NAVMODEL or other system specific application s may perform dynamic recalibration of the fix provided by the navigation system without operator intervention. According to this embodiment the navigation system of the unit may have one or more programmed paths. The tag data provided by the reader is used to dynamically control the navigation path of the hull grooming unit in accordance with the operational directives of the navigation program. Thus for example if the NAVMODEL or other similar application determines that the hull grooming unit is approaching an intake or a moving part such as a rudder that has a known location the navigation system according to programmed responses may reduce the speed stop the advancement or alter the path of the unit . If there are no obstacles to be avoided the navigation system may allow the unit to continue on a predetermined path. When autonomously controlled the arrangements and of respectively may be used.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the RFID system as disclosed herein may be used to survey different underwater environments. Thus RFID tags may be placed on objects that are underwater or may be positioned along an ocean floor for example. An underwater vehicle that may be remotely operated or diver operated may be equipped with a RFID reader that reads information embedded on RFID tags. Alternatively a diver may be equipped with a RFID reader that reads information embedded on RFID tags. Based on information received the underwater vehicle diver would be able to survey the environment. If for example the tags are attached to objects that are located underwater the tags may include information pertaining to the type of object and the location of the object. The subsurface vehicle diver having the reader may be used to verify or check the position of the underwater objects or may merely be used to collect data provided on the tags. The collected data may be utilized to impact future operations of the subsurface vehicle diver or may be used for other purposes. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

