---

title: Programmable crosspoint device with an integral diode
abstract: A programmable crosspoint device with an integral diode includes a first crossbar, a second crossbar, a metallic interlayer, and a switching oxide layer interposed between the first crossbar and the metallic interlayer. The switching oxide layer has a low resistance state and high resistance state. The programmable crosspoint device also includes an integral diode which is interposed between the second crossbar layer and the metallic interlayer, the integral diode being configured to limit the flow of leakage current through the programmable crosspoint device in one direction. A method for forming a programmable crosspoint device with an integrated diode is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207520&OS=08207520&RS=08207520
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08207520
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100402
---
This invention has been made with government support. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Nanoscale electronics promise a number of advantages including significantly reduced feature sizes and the potential for self assembly or other relatively inexpensive non photolithography based fabrication methods. Nanowire crossbar arrays can be used to form a variety of electronic circuits and devices including ultra high density nonvolatile memory. Programmable crosspoint devices can be interposed between nanowires at intersections where two nanowires overlay each other. These programmable crosspoint devices can be programmed to maintain two or more conduction states. For example the programmable crosspoint devices may have a first low resistance state and a second higher resistance state. Data can be encoded into these programmable crosspoint devices by selectively setting the state of the crosspoint devices within the nanowire array. The state of a target crosspoint device can be read by applying a voltage across the target crosspoint device and measuring the current which passes through the target crosspoint device. However leakage currents which pass through other paths can obscure the current passing through the target crosspoint device. Reducing these leakage currents within the nanowire array can yield significant operational and manufacturing advantages.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

One particularly promising family of nanoscale devices incorporates a crossbar architecture. Studies of switching in nanometer scale crossed wire devices have previously reported that these devices could be reversibly switched and may have an on to off conductance ratio of 10. These devices have been used to construct crossbar circuits and provide a promising route for the creation of ultra high density nonvolatile memory. Additionally the versatility of the crossbar architecture lends itself to the creation of other communication and logic circuitry. For example new logic families may be constructed entirely from crossbar arrays of switches or from hybrid structures composed of switches and transistors. These devices have the potential to dramatically increase the computing efficiency of CMOS circuits. These crossbar circuits could replace CMOS circuits in some circumstances and enable performance improvements of orders of magnitude without having to further shrink transistors.

The design and manufacture of nanoscale electronic devices presents a number of challenges which are being addressed to improve commercial production of nanoscale electronic devices and incorporate these devices into microscale and larger scale systems devices and products.

One of these challenges is leakage current. As discussed above these programmable crosspoint devices can be programmed to maintain two or more conduction states. For example the programmable crosspoint devices may have a first low resistance state and a second higher resistance state. Data can be encoded into these programmable crosspoint devices by selectively setting the state of the programmable crosspoint devices within the nanowire array. The state of a target programmable crosspoint device can be read by applying a voltage across the target programmable crosspoint device and measuring the current which passes through the target crosspoint. However leakage currents which pass through other paths can obscure the current passing through the target crosspoint. Reducing these leakage currents within the nanowire array can yield significant operational and manufacturing advantages.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Throughout the specification a conventional notation for the flow of electrical current is used. Specifically the direction of a flow of positive charges holes is from the positive side of a power source to the more negative side of the power source.

Although individual nanowires in are shown with rectangular cross sections nanowires can also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The nanowires may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities. The term nanowire crossbar may refer to crossbars having one or more layers of sub microscale wires microscale wires or wires with larger dimensions in addition to nanowires.

The layers may be fabricated using a variety of techniques including conventional photolithography as well as mechanical nanoimprinting techniques. Alternatively nanowires can be chemically synthesized and can be deposited as layers of approximately parallel nanowires in one or more processing steps including Langmuir Blodgett processes. Other alternative techniques for fabricating nanowires may also be employed such as interference lithography. Many different types of conductive and semi conductive nanowires can be chemically synthesized from metallic and semiconductor substances from combinations of these types of substances and from other types of substances. A nanowire crossbar may be connected to microscale address wire leads or other electronic leads through a variety of different methods in order to incorporate the nanowires into electrical circuits.

At nanowire intersections nanoscale electronic components such as resistors and other familiar basic electronic components can be fabricated to interconnect two overlapping nanowires. In this example programmable crosspoint devices are disposed between a first layer of approximately parallel nanowires and a second layer of approximately parallel nanowires . These programmable crosspoint devices may perform a variety of functions including providing programmable switching between the nanowires. For purposes of illustration only a few of the programmable crosspoint devices are shown in . As discussed above it can be desirable in many devices for a programmable crosspoint device to be present at each nanowire intersection. Because every wire in the first layer of nanowires intersects each wire in the second layer of nanowires placing a programmable crosspoint device at each intersection allows for any nanowire in the first layer to be connected to any wire in the second layer .

According to one illustrative embodiment the nanowire crossbar architecture may be used to form a nonvolatile memory array. Each of the programmable crosspoint devices may be used to represent one or more bits of data. For example in the simplest case a programmable crosspoint device may have two states a conductive state and a nonconductive state. The conductive state may represent a binary 1 and the nonconductive state may represent a binary 0 or visa versa. Binary data can be written into the crossbar architecture by changing the conductive state of the programmable crosspoint devices. The binary data can then be retrieved by sensing the state of the programmable crosspoint devices .

The example above is only one illustrative embodiment of the nanowire crossbar architecture . A variety of other configurations could be used. For example the crossbar architecture can incorporate programmable crosspoint devices which have more than two states. In another example crossbar architecture can be used to form implication logic structures and crossbar based adaptive circuits such as artificial neural networks.

According to one illustrative embodiment the state of a target crosspoint between wire B and wire C can be read by applying a negative or ground read voltage to wire B and a positive voltage to wire C . Ideally if a current flows through the crosspoint when the read voltages are applied the reading circuitry can ascertain that the crosspoint is in its conductive state. If no current or an insubstantial current flows through the crosspoint the reading circuitry can ascertain that the crosspoint is in its resistive state.

However if the crosspoints are purely resistive in nature i.e. a low resistance is a conductive state and a high resistance is a resistive state a number of leakage currents can also travel through other paths. These leakage currents can be thought of as electrical noise which obscures the desired reading of the crosspoint 

According to one illustrative embodiment the crystalline titanium dioxide layer may be formed using atomic layer deposition with a process temperature of approximately 400 C. This temperature creates a poly crystalline structure in the crystalline titanium dioxide layer . As used in the specification and appended claims the term crystalline can be used to refer to any solid material whose constituent atoms molecules or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern which extends in all three spatial dimensions at some length scale. As such the term crystalline can refer to layers or materials which exhibit conventional crystalline polycrystalline polymorphic allotropic or quasi crystalline structures. The term crystalline does not preclude dopants point defects grain boundaries dislocations or other crystallographic defects.

As discussed above the thickness of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer may be adjusted by exposing the substrate to the desired number of cycles of precursor gases. According to one illustrative embodiment the thickness of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer may be from 10 nanometers to 100 nanometers. For example the crystalline titanium dioxide layer may be 40 nanometers thick. The crystalline titanium dioxide layer may include a number of impurities. For example the inclusion of oxygen vacancies can be used to increase the electrical conductivity of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer .

Above the crystalline titanium dioxide layer a metallic interlayer is deposited. This metallic layer is not used to form an external electrical connection to the programmable crosspoint device . Instead the metallic interlayer forms an interface between the crystalline titanium dioxide layer and the switching oxide layer . First the metallic interlayer may serve as a barrier between the crystalline titanium dioxide layer and the overlying switching oxide layer . This barrier prevents the diffusion of dopants or other contaminants between the two layers .

Second the metallic interlayer may average the electrical properties of the layers above and below it. For example if the programmable crosspoint device has a cross sectional area of 50 nanometers by 50 nanometers one portion the crystalline titanium dioxide layer may have a high electrical conductivity due to dopants trapped at a particular grain boundary while the remainder of the layer has a lower electrical conductivity. The metallic interlayer is electrically connected over the entire upper surface of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer and consequently averages out the electrical conductivity of the crystalline layer. Third the metallic interlayer ensures that there is a good electrical connection made between the whole upper surface of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer and the whole lower surface of the switching oxide layer . Fourth the metallic interlayer can be used to create a rectifying interface with the crystalline titanium dioxide layer . This illustrative embodiment is discussed below with reference to . Alternatively the interface between the metallic interlayer and the titanium dioxide layer could be Ohmic and the interface between the titanium dioxide layer and the bottom platinum layer could be rectifying. This illustrative embodiment is discussed below with reference to .

Over the metallic interlayer a switching oxide layer is formed. This switching oxide layer may be formed from a variety of materials including titanium dioxide. According to one illustrative embodiment this layer may be deposited using atomic layer deposition. For example a switching oxide layer with a thickness of between 3 to 15 nanometers may be deposited using atomic layer deposition with a process temperature of approximately 300 C. This may produce an amorphous form of titanium oxide which has the desired characteristics. Over the switching oxide layer the upper crossbar is deposited.

The switch is made up of the switching oxide layer and its interfaces with the metallic interlayer and the upper crossbar . The titanium oxide which makes up the switching oxide layer is configured to serve as a matrix which contains mobile dopants. These mobile dopants have a voltage threshold for motion. When a voltage which exceeds the voltage threshold is applied across the switching oxide layer the mobile dopants move through the titanium dioxide matrix to a new location. This can alter the electrical resistance of the switching oxide layer .

A reading voltage which is lower than the voltage threshold can be applied across the switch to measure its resistive state. The reading voltage is not great enough to produce significant motion of the mobile dopants. Consequently the switch can be read multiple times without altering its resistive state. For example when the switch is in a highly resistive state the reading voltage would produce a relatively small amount of current through the switch . When the switch is in a low resistance state the reading voltage produces a larger current through the switch .

As discussed above leakage currents through surrounding crosspoint devices can obscure the measurement of the resistive state of a target crosspoint device. Consequently it can be desirable to limit the flow of electrical current through the crosspoint devices in one direction. Referring back to the reading current for all crosspoint devices flows only one direction. As illustrated in the reading current flows upward through the crosspoint devices. As shown in the leakage current must flow downward through at least one crosspoint device to return to line B. By forming an integral diode in each of the crosspoint devices the backward flow of electrical current through the crosspoint devices can be significantly reduced. This limits the leakage current and improves the functionality of the crossbar array. For example the crossbar array could be larger because the increase in potential leakage paths created by enlarging the array is offset by the diodes which block reverse currents.

In the illustrative embodiment shown in the diode includes the crystalline titanium dioxide layer and its interfaces with the metallic interlayer and the lower crossbar . According to one illustrative embodiment the crystalline titanium dioxide layer contains a relatively high level of dopants and consequently has a relatively low electrical resistance.

The interface between the crystalline titanium oxide layer and the metallic interlayer has few oxygen vacancy dopants and exhibits rectifying behavior. Specifically this upper interface allows relatively unimpeded current flow from the top crossbar to the bottom crossbar but blocks current flowing in the reverse direction.

To the right of the cross sectional diagram of the programmable crosspoint device an electrical schematic is shown. The resistor R represents the resistance of the crystalline layer and its bottom interface with the lower crossbar . The diode D represents the rectifying behavior of the upper interface. The memristor M represents the programmable resistance of the switch . For purposes of illustration the very low resistances of the metallic layers have not been illustrated.

Similarly shows a cross sectional diagram of a programmable crosspoint device on the left and a corresponding electrical diagram on the right. In this illustrative embodiment the dopant concentration is at the upper interface of the crystalline titanium oxide layer and the lower interface exhibits rectifying behavior. This reverses the diode direction and allows the current to flow from bottom crossbar to the upper crossbar but blocks it in the opposite direction. This dopant concentration could be created by placing a thin layer of titanium between the metallic interlayer and the crystalline layer . As discussed above the titanium has a high affinity for oxygen and will draw oxygen atoms out of the crystalline layer to create the dopant concentration .

As discussed above the resistance R of the crystalline layer is relatively low compared to the resistance of the memristor M . For a given current the voltage drop across a resistor is proportional to the electrical resistance of the resistor. When two resistances are in series they create a voltage divider. In a voltage divider the voltage across each of the resistors is proportional to their resistance. For example a voltage of 4 volts is applied across two resistors in series with the first resistor having a 1 Ohm resistance and the second resistor having a 3 Ohm resistance. The voltage drop across the 1 Ohm resistor is 1 volt and the voltage across the 3 Ohm resistor is 3 volts. In the programmable crosspoint device it is desirable that the voltage drop is primarily across the switching oxide layer . During programming the voltage drop across the switching oxide layer creates the electrical field which moves the mobile dopants. During reading it is desirable that the switching oxide layer be the primary factor in how much current flows through the device. For at least these reasons it is desirable that the crystalline titanium oxide layer have a low electrical resistance. This low electrical resistance can be created in a number of ways including adding dopants to the crystalline layer . The dopant concentration and concentration and these additional dopants are not mobile within the crystalline layer under normal operating conditions. Consequently the characteristics of the crystalline layer remain substantially unchanged during the operation of the programmable crosspoint device.

A switching oxide layer may be deposited using a number of techniques including atomic layer deposition. For example the atomic layer deposition may be performed at 300 C. and produce a layer thickness of between 3 nm and 15 nm. According to one illustrative embodiment the thickness of the switching oxide layer may be 5 nm.

To turn the switch to an ON state a voltage is applied to move the mobile dopants within the switching oxide layer and reduce the electrical resistance of the switching oxide layer . In this case the programming voltage which changes the state of the switching oxide layer to the ON state is illustrated in as a dotted line which loops to the left. The dotted line exhibits hysteresis which demonstrates that the switching oxide layer has changed states. For example as the negative programming voltage is beginning to be applied a negative voltage of 0.5 volts results in only 10amps of electrical current flowing through the switching oxide layer . However after the maximum programming voltage has been applied a negative voltage of 0.5 volts results in 10amps of current flowing through the switching oxide layer . This is a change of two orders of magnitude and indicates that the mobile dopants have shifted so that the switching oxide layer has a lower electrical resistance.

The application of a positive voltage to the switch is shown as a dash dot line which extends to the right. This loop also exhibits hysteresis. As the positive voltage is initially applied relatively high currents flow through the switch . However as the mobile dopants shift within the switching oxide layer the resistance of the switch is reduced and the current levels drop. For example when the positive voltage is initially applied a 0.5 voltage results in 10amps of electrical current flowing through the switching oxide layer . However after the maximum positive programming voltage has been applied a positive voltage of 0.5 volts results only in 10amps of current flowing through the switching oxide layer . This is a change of two orders of magnitude and indicates that the mobile dopants have shifted so that the switching oxide layer has returned to its higher resistance state.

An application of a positive voltage across the diode results in the rapid rise in the current through the diode . For example an application of 0.5 volts results in a current of 10amps. This indicates that in the forward direction the diode has a lower resistance than the switching oxide layer . However in the reverse direction the diode has a much higher electrical resistance as indicated by the lower currents when a negative voltage is applied. For example when 0.5 volts is applied only 10amps flow through the diode . This diode is robust and has a large enough rectification to limit the leakage current in the crossbar and also allows high enough currents to pass through for the programming voltage to change the state of the switch . Significantly the electrical behavior of the diode exhibits very little hysteresis which indicates that the electrical characteristics of the diode are substantially stable.

As used in the specification and appended claims the term forward resistance refers to the resistance of a diode to the flow of electrical current in the direction in which the diode has the lowest electrical resistance. As shown in the flow of electrical current when a positive voltage is applied to the diode has a low or forward resistance. As used in the specification and appended claims the term reverse resistance refers to the resistance of the diode in the blocking direction. For example applying a negative voltage to the diode in results in the reverse resistance limiting the current flow through the diode .

A variety of other steps could be included in the method. For example a titanium layer could be formed in proximity to the crystalline titanium dioxide layer to create a dopant concentration at an interface of the crystalline titanium dioxide layer. As discussed above this dopant concentration creates an Ohmic connection at the interface. Additionally a variety of dopants could be deposited in the switching oxide layer. For example ion implantation could be used to accurately place a desired concentration of mobile dopants in the switching oxide layer.

The examples given above are only illustrative embodiments of a programmable crosspoint device with an integral diode. A variety of other embodiments could also be used. For example the dimensions and material of the programmable crosspoint device could be altered to achieve the desired performance. Additionally the methods of constructing the programmable crosspoint device could be changed to reduce the cost or produce higher quality results. For example the atomic layer deposition process could be replaced by the chemical vapor deposition or another process.

The design requirements for the programmable crosspoint device are influenced by a variety of factors. For example the size of the crossbar array the material composition of the switching oxide layer the mobile dopant species the size of the crossbars the robustness of the reading and writing circuitry and other factors could influence the amount of allowable leakage current. In some embodiments design requirements may dictate that the diode must reduce the leakage currents by one order of magnitude two orders of magnitude or more so that design is functional.

Additionally the design requirements may also include limits on the resistance of the diode. For example design requirements may specify limits on the resistance of the diode in both the forward and reverse directions. These limits could be expressed in absolute terms or in relation to the resistance of the switch in its low or high resistance state. According to one illustrative embodiment the forward resistance of the diode is no more than one half of the resistance of the switch in its lowest resistance configuration.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

