---

title: Dynamic place visibility in geo-social networking system
abstract: In one embodiment, a user of a social networking system requests to search for a place near the user's current location. The social networking system generates a list of places near the user's current location, select a sub-set from the list of places based on visibility and activity of the user and the user's social contacts for each place in the list, and returns the sub-set to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832093&OS=08832093&RS=08832093
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08832093
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100818
---
The present disclosure relates generally to a geo social networking system and more particularly to dynamically adjusting visibility of places created in a geo social networking system.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests.

Particular embodiments relate to dynamically adjusting the visibility of places maintained in a geo social networking system. In particular embodiments a geo social networking system may provide a list of suggested places to a user based on the user s geographic location to facilitate a check in at a given place. The places may be user created and system created. Embodiments described below may modulate the visibility of one or more places based on a visibility setting that considers one or more of the activity of the user and the user s social contacts relative to the places maintained by the system. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user first registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can be generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 filed Apr. 19 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein describes example social graph structures that may be used in various embodiments of the present invention.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to places. Places correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. As described in more detail below check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. As described below a user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. A entry including the comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. The user may also add delete or update events that the user is associated with. For example a user may update a social event associated with a time and date that the user is planning to attend or make comments in his wall posts about a past event he attended.

A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information when checking in to a place is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information such as the user that initially created the place reviews comments check in activity data and the like . Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . In particular implementations location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of an object such as a mobile device. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with Wi Fi and GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments location database may store a geographic location and additional information for a plurality of places. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. A place may also be more particular to a user or group of users such as a person s desk in an office building a bedroom in a house a traffic jam at a street corner and the like. A geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station or within a radius or relative distance of another place . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid of the shape. For example additional information of a place can be business hours photos or user reviews of the place. In other embodiments a place can be located within another place forming a hierarchical relationship. For example an airport is place that and has multiple terminals. These terminals may also be places that may or may not be associated with a larger encompassing place i.e. the airport. Location database may also maintain additional information of a place such as descriptions thumbnail map parameters business hours contact information web address web links photos icons badges points or user reviews or ratings of the place. A place object maintained by location database may also include one or more tags associated with the place e.g. coffee shop cross streets etc. and one or more category identifiers that facilitate searches for places. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data.

Places in location database may be system created or defined and or user created. For example location database may store information relating to places created by users such as in connection with a user s check in activities. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop and places service stores the user created place in location database . As discussed above social networking system may create one or more data structures relating to the place such as a data object corresponding to the place and a data object corresponding to the user s check in. In some implementations social networking system may also create a check in edge relationship between the node associated with the user in a social graph and a hub node associated with the place if the social networking system maintains a hybrid social graph structure disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. A check in data object may include a user identifier associated with the user a place identifier or a pointer to a place object or hub node a time stamp and other meta information such as geographic location coordinates of a mobile device of the user comments of the user etc. . In one implementation places service allows users to register the presence of other users such as the user s friends at a place in connection with a check in. In one implementation location database maintains check in data including for a given check in the name of the place a time stamp corresponding to the check in a user identifier associated with the check in a geographic location of the user provided in the check in request and if applicable a list of any friend s the user tagged in connection with a given check in event. In some implementations the number of users that have been tagged in connection with a check in may also count as a separate check in or some weighted amount. In some implementations a tagged user check in is only counted if the tagged user approves or acknowledges the check in. In other implementations more recent check ins whether in the total number or recent column relative to a current search are weighted more highly than older check ins.

In particular embodiments places service may be operably connected to databases and . In connection with a check in or a general search of nearby places a user can receive a list of places near the user s current location by providing text such as a text string that contains a full or partial name describing a place such as a name of the place or a category or concept associated with a place and or a geographic location to place services . Places service may search location database and provide the user a list of places near the geographic location that match the text string if provided . illustrates an example graphical user interface for a type ahead listing of suggested places on a mobile device. shows a user interface where a user has entered the term caf . The client application that provides the user interface may periodically transmit the text string in a search request as the user enters additional text or changes existing text in the text entry field possibly causing the places service to transmit a renewed list of places to the client application. In other implementations the client application may also retransmit the search request if the current location of the user changes by more than a threshold distance. However as any other user of a social networking system can create one or more places a place search of nearby places based on a distance from the user s current location and or a text string match can yield a result that may or may not be relevant or appropriate to the user. For example a place with offensive language in its name or in its description can be inappropriate even if the place is very close to the user s current location. In another example place A may be more relevant to a user than place B if none of the user s friends have checked in or searched for place B but many of the user s friends had checked in place A. In yet another example one set of users may refer to a given place by a different name such as a nickname for a place e.g. Mickey D s than a second set of users e.g. McDonald s . In addition some places created in the system may only have significance to a user or a particular set of users such as the user s house or office cube. It is thus desirable to control visibility of places to eliminate irrelevant and or inappropriate place search results for a user or group of users to prevent one or more places from obscuring or interfering the list of places that a user may see during a search. Some implementations of the invention balances hiding of places that may be irrelevant or inappropriate to a search against the benefits of having places created by other users exposed to others so that check ins are facilitated.

In particular embodiments a social networking system may set up a place visibility policy to control visibility of places by creating a visibility state for each place maintained by the system. In particular embodiments a visibility state of a place may be that the place is visible to all users in the social networking system. In particular embodiments a visibility state of a place may be that the place is visible only to direct social contacts friends of one or more users associated with the place e.g. a creator of the place a user that has checked in to the place or a user that has searched for the place . In particular embodiments a visibility state of a place may be that the place is visible only to a creator of the place. In particular embodiments another visibility state of a place may be that the place is hidden from all users in the social networking system.

In some search or check in flows visibility states of one or more places may be overridden or ignored. For example social networking system may ignore the visibility state of a place if it algorithmically determines that the user is searching for the place. In one implementation social networking system may ignore the visibility state of a place if the user has entered most or all of a name for the place in a text entry field such as the text entry field of . In addition social networking system may ignore visibility states of a place when a user attempts to configure a new place to prevent a second user from unintentionally creating a duplicate place. In one implementation social networking system may use a Levenshtein edit distance to search for places similar to the name a user provides when creating a new place.

In particular embodiments the check in or search request may additionally include a text string. In particular embodiments places service may access location database to identify a set of one or more places wherein a place identifier e.g. a name a metadata value of each place matches the text string partially or completely and where the place is within a threshold distance of the user s current location. For example if a user wants to search for or check in to a nearby coffee shop the user can type coffe in a web page or a client application. The places service can return a list of nearby coffee shops e.g. Starbucks Coffee Peet s Coffee and Tea Dunkin Donuts etc.

In particular embodiments places service may access location database and select a sub set from the set of one or more places near the user s current location based on place visibility states and possibly users associated with each place Step . illustrates an example method of selecting one or more places based on place visibility. In a user having a user ID 50 at location X Y transmits a request to search for nearby places in connection with an attempted check in to a nearby place in a social networking system. Places service fetches a friends list user ID 100 200 and 300 from user profile database and accesses location database to identify a list of nearby places place ID 1 2 3 4 and 5 and for each place a visibility state and one or more users associated with the place if applicable. In one embodiment the one or more users associated with a place may include one or more users who may have checked in to the place before one or more users who may have searched for the place before and a creator of the place. In some implementations social networking system may also assess the relative effort that a user made to check in to a place. This level of effort can be used to weight the value of a check in as used in determining a visibility state. For example a check in where a user initially creates a place or begins the workflow to create the place before being presented with the place name when a visibility state is overridden may be weighted more highly than a check in associated with a user who selects a place from a list of places. In addition check ins to a place associated with a group of users that are friends or close contacts may be down weighted over check ins from a more distributed set of users to prevent potential collusion from affecting visibility. In one embodiment if the visibility state of a place is set to be visible to all users then places service may add the place to the sub set of nearby places e.g. Place ID 1 . In one embodiment if the visibility state of a place is set to hidden to all users then places service does not add the place to the sub set of nearby places e.g. Place 4 . In one embodiment if the visibility state of a place is set to visible to friends and the one or more users associated with a place overlap with the friends list then places service adds the place to the sub set of nearby places. For example places service adds place ID 3 to the sub set of nearby places because user ID 100 is associated with place ID 3 and is a friend of user ID 50. For example places service adds place ID 5 to the sub set of nearby places because the requesting user ID 50 is the creator of the place. For example places service does not add place ID 2 to the sub set of nearby places because there is no overlap between the friends list and the associated users. In particular embodiments places service may provide the selected sub set of the one or more nearby places to the user for the user s check in request Step . In the example of places service returns a list of places ID 1 3 and 5 to the requesting user ID 50. For example this list of places could be returned to a client application of a mobile device to be displayed to a user in a type ahead listing of suggested places as the user enters text into a text entry field as illustrates .

In particular embodiments when a user creates a place in a social networking system the social networking system may set the initial state of the place s visibility state. In particular embodiments the social networking system may set the initial state of a newly created place to be visible to all friends of the creating user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may set the initial visibility state based on the level of trustworthiness of the creating user. For example the social networking system can set the initial visibility state to be visible to all friends of the creating user if the creating user has a high trustworthiness score. Alternatively the system may set the initial visibility state to be visible only to the creating user if the creating user has a low trustworthiness score. For example the social networking system can set the initial visibility state to be visible to all users in the social networking system if the creating user had created many places in the past and none of those places had been flagged as inappropriate e.g. spam offensive etc. . Additionally some networking computing systems monitor the interactions of users with the system and generate scores that generally indicate the trustworthiness of a user. In some implementations the trustworthiness score may be based at least in part on indications of whether the interactions are attributable to human users or internet bots. An example process of determining the level of trustworthiness of a user based on user actions is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 744 filed on Feb. 2 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. In one embodiment when a user creates a new place social networking system may access an external or internal search service against the name provided by the user and the geographic coordinates associated with the check in to determine whether such search service returns information in search results suggest that the newly created place corresponds to an actual location. If so social networking system may set the initial visibility state to globally visible. In particular embodiments the social networking system may set the initial visibility of a place to be hidden from all users. For example if a user wants to create a place for a military installation and the social networking system can set the visibility to be hidden from all users for national security reason. For example the system may maintain a set of place names and or geographic locations or regions that are prohibited from being made visible. In particular embodiments the social networking system may set the initial visibility of a place based on nature of the creating user or the place. For example the social networking system may set the initial visibility of a place created by a individual user as visible to the user s friends and set the initial visibility of a place created by a well known business as visible to all users in the social networking system.

Social networking system may also import place information from trust or semi trusted sources. In some implementations social networking system may initially set the visibility states of such places to globally visible. In some implementations social networking system may maintain this visibility state even if a number of users flag the place. In some implementations social networking system may allow users to report a place as closed which may lower the visibility state or cause the place to be placed on a review queue for review by editorial staff.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may make a place visible to a user regardless of the visibility state of the place. In particular embodiments if a first user wants to create a place and the social networking system determines that the place has been created by another user the social networking system may provide the place to the first user to check in instead of creating a duplicate instance of the same place. In particular embodiments if a user searches a first place near the user s current location by providing text such as a text string that contains a full or partial name describing the first place such as a name the social networking system may make a second place visible to the user if the name of the second place matches completely or partially to the text string.

The social networking system can increase the visibility of the place if the place becomes more popular for example more than 10 distinct users in the social networking system check in to the place. Similarly the social networking system can decrease the visibility of the place if the social networking system determines that the place is offensive or inappropriate to other users when for example more than 10 distinct users in the social networking system flag the place as offensive. In addition a user may also flag a place as being no longer active such as a restaurant that has moved or gone out of business.

In an alternative embodiment the social networking system may calculate a composite score including a positive interaction component and a negative interaction component. For example the social networking system may calculate a user trust score for each distinct user that interacted with a place checked in or flagged it . The social networking system may also consider or count the number of tagged users that were checked in by other users either as separate counts and or if a user approved the check in as an additional weighting factor for counting a particular check in. This score may range from 0 1 . The social networking system may then add up the user trust scores of all users who checked in to a place and separately add up the user trust scores of all users who flagged the place. The social networking system may calculate the ratio of sum scores people who flagged the place sum scores people who checked in or flagged the place . The social networking system may then select a visibility state based on the value of the ratio relative to a set of threshold that correspond to the different visibility states. In some implementations social networking system may require a minimum number of data points flags and check ins before adjusting a visibility state from its initial setting.

In addition other events and factors may be relevant to determining the visibility state for a place. For example if a user claims the page corresponding to the page as authentic such as a business owner claiming administrative rights over the page the social networking system may set the place to globally visible. Furthermore the social networking system may apply a hysteresis mechanism to prevent the visibility state for a place from throttling back and forth in a short period of time or after a small number of additional user interactions. For example the social networking system may apply a mechanism that models arrival rate of check ins flags as a Poisson process and calculates probabilities that the ratio could fluctuate by a certain amount. When there are only few data points a single check in flag has a bigger effect on the ratio than if there are many check ins flags. The Poisson process approach provides one method for preventing the visibility state from oscillating back and forth. In addition social networking system may also prevent the visibility state of a place from being downgraded if there are a threshold number of check ins to a place under the assumption that the shear number of check ins may indicate that a place is legitimate regardless of the number of flags. Still further check ins and or flags bunched in time may be de weighted as they are much more likely to be attributable to spam behavior.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example places service and social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

