---

title: Telephony application services
abstract: Telephony application services are provided through use of a service delivery platform (SDP) and by implementing a service-oriented architecture (SOA)-based approach. Various “widgets” of telephony functionality are selected, each widget providing functionality such as call forwarding, call blocking, conferencing, etc. These widgets provide not only call manipulation, but can provide the logic used to process a call. An application or application service thus can combine and/or compose these widgets as needed to provide telephony functionality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08879547&OS=08879547&RS=08879547
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08879547
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100601
---
This application is related to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 183 439 filed Jun. 2 2009 by Maes and entitled Telephony Application Services of which the entire disclosure is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

With the development and proliferation of technologies such as Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP an increased amount of telephony and related functionality is being made available over electronic networks such as the Internet. A telephony application can provide functionality over an electronic network that is common for traditional public switched telephone networks PSTNs . Such functionality can include call forwarding voice mail conference calls call blocking televoting call screening telephone number portability toll free calls and Freephone prepaid calling account card calling virtual private networks e.g. family group calling or enterprise telephony networks on PSTN Centrex service virtual private branch exchange PBX private number plans with numbers remaining unpublished in directories short numbers and short codes Universal Personal Telecommunication service a universal personal telephone number mass calling services prefix free dialing from cellphones abroad seamless multimedia messaging service MMS access from abroad reverse charging home area discounts premium rate calls call distribution based on various criteria associated with a call location based routing time based routing proportional call distribution e.g. between two or more call centers or offices and call queueing.

The functionality can be implemented in what is known in the industry as an Intelligent Network IN . The Intelligent Network can use a variety of protocols sometimes using a layered approach where the application layer is referred to as the Intelligent Networks Application Part INAP and sometimes using a less layered protocol such as the Transaction Capabilities Application Part TCAP . One standard for the IN protocols is the Customized Applications for Mobile networks Enhanced Logic CAMEL which allows increased functions for mobile phones. A Camel Application Part CAP can be layered on top of TCAP so that additional functions can be added to TCAP.

For European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Wireline or old wireless networks the following protocols are used INAP INAP Capability Set One CS 1 INAP CS 1 an Ericsson variant and SINAP a Siemens variant . For North America the Advanced Intelligent Network AIN is often used by carriers such as Qwest Communications AT T EMBARQ Wireless and Rogers Communications. For Global System for Mobile communications GSM and Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems UMTS the following protocols are typically used CAP v1 to v4 INAP CS 1 and SINAP 5m 7m. For networks using wireless code division multiple access CDMA 1x Wireless Intelligent Networking WIN phase 1 IS 771 and WIN phase 2 IS 826 are often used. Second and third tier operators operating in locations such as Mexico and Brazil sometimes do not yet have a fully capable Intelligent Network therefore Integrated Services digital network User Part ISUP and Telephone User Part TUP protocols are also relevant in those localities.

A Service Control Point SCP typically is used to carry out the above and other functions that are not directly related to the routing of messages through the network. An SCP allows control at the service level of a network so that a service logic can drive the protocol to provided one of the services above. In general the service logic is protocol specific and developed and executed directly as a manipulation of the protocol specific exchanges. The service logic is built for one specific IN i.e. a well defined protocol . In integrated telephone networks these servers are mostly implemented as functions in the telephone exchange but in more open networks such as Internet protocol IP telephony networks based on the SIP session initiation protocol protocol Next Generation Networks NGN and Internet protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS these are often separate computers which comprise the server.

In one approach an SCP server supports the execution of service logic of applications such as call processing and routing call termination messaging and subscriber independent or subscriber dependent applications. The SCP includes service logic which implements the behavior desired by the operator i.e. the services. During logic processing additional data and capabilities required to process a call may be obtained from the Service Control Function SCF . Examples of the applications provided on an SCP as service logic include such capabilities as local number portability free call routing resolution conference bridge services and unified messaging. The application telephony service can be provided by service chaining on calls incoming or outgoing .

Telephony applications i.e. telephony IN PSTN service on service control points are generally one of two types those that are signaling only and those that involve media manipulation. The former are often related to a routing resolution including functionality such as local number portability free call routing and other services where the dialed number must be translated to a routable address. Examples involving media manipulation include conference bridge applications interactive voice response IVR etc. which are services with which many business professional are familiar. The call steps for such an example include the following. A user calling in on a pre published number. The dialed number is translated into an IP address and named the endpoint of the application server and the call is routed to that endpoint. The application server connects to the media server instructing the media server to play a greeting and collect the conference number. The media server returns a conference number and the application server instructs the media server to play a prompt to collect the authorization number. If the digits collected are correct the application server tells the media server to move this call to a particular conference bridge.

Another example is a prepaid SCP in which the service is a prepaid service for a call or messaging. In such a service the system checks the user s subscription and also manages the user s ratings and balances.

Such approaches however retain aspects of the PSTN versions but do not take full advantage of the new electronic environment.

Embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure relate to providing telephony application services through the use of a service delivery platform SDP and a service oriented architecture SOA based approach. Various widgets i.e. SOA services including but not limited to telephony functionality each providing discrete functionality such as call forwarding call initiation etc. are combined and or composed into an application. The widgets provide multimedia session or call manipulation as well as logic used to process a multimedia session or call or set of calls or sessions between multiple users and access information about the user manipulate that information e.g. subscribe or charge and message between users. An application telephony service can be built by composing the widgets as needed to provide the desired telephony functionality IN. The application telephony service can also be used to debug the application. The widgets also can provide functionality for a single application that services disparate networks at the same time. Note also that calls should be interpreted as any media type or multimedia session or messaging. This can include video video and voice video and or voice and data etc.

One embodiment relates to a platform for providing network based telephony functions as application services. The platform includes at least one processor a memory operatively coupled to the at least one processor and a plurality of widgets executing on the at least one processor. The widgets each have a reusable function for a telecommunications network application in which the plurality of widgets are enabled to execute on more than one network technology such that a function of a widget is available on a first network through an application programming interface API function call and on a second network through a second API call.

Another embodiment relates to a computer implemented method for providing network based telephony functions as application services. The method includes executing on a processor a plurality of widgets on at least one processor the widgets each having a reusable function for a telecommunications network application accessing from a memory operatively coupled to the processor one of the widgets from a first network through a first application programming interface API function call and accessing using the processor one of the widgets from a second network through a second API call. The first and second networks utilize different protocols.

Yet other embodiments relate to machine readable tangible storage media which employ or store instructions for the method described above.

Another embodiment is a computer implemented method for implementing telephony services. The method includes executing a first widget on a processor the first widget having a reusable function for a telecommunications network application executing a second widget on the processor the second widget having a reusable function for the telecommunication network application and combining the widgets using the processor such that the widgets are executed in one application. The method further includes providing the functions as telephony services on a network in which the widgets are enabled to execute on more than one network technology such that a function of each widget is available on a first network through an application programming interface API function call and on a second network through a second API function call.

Yet another embodiment is an telephony application server in a deployed system. The deployed system includes a telephony application server AS an administration portal operatively connected with the telephony AS an operator portal operatively connected with the telephony AS and an end user portal operatively connected with the telephony AS. The deployed system also includes a charging function server operatively connected with the telephony AS and a call detail record CDR server operatively connected with the telephony AS. The telephony AS is deployed to interface with a public switched telephone network PSTN gateway an emergency call center a charging function and a lawful interception server.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of the inventions disclosed herein may be realized by reference of the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments overcome the aforementioned and other deficiencies in existing approaches to electronic network based telephony systems by providing a platform for developing and utilizing telephony functions as application services.

An approach to providing telephony application services in accordance with one embodiment takes advantage of the fact that various services can be provided through use of a service delivery platform SDP and by implementing a service oriented architecture SOA based approach. Further information about a service delivery platform and SOA based approaches is detailed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 357 653 filed Feb. 16 2006 entitled Factorization of Concerns to Build a SDP Service Delivery Platform pending examination as well as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 019 335 filed Jan. 24 2008 entitled Integrating Operational and Business Support Systems with a Service Delivery Platform pending examination each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. As discussed in these references an SDP implementation can take advantage of various enablers to provide some reusable functionality such as a call control enabler which enables call control functions to be performed and abstracts these functions from the underlying network. A media server enabler allows media server functionality such as deriving a conferencing function or streaming functionality to be provided independent of how the functionality is actually realized. An SDP also can include an enabler such as a voice access enabler that allows voice dialog to be added to an application.

An SDP is not absolutely necessary as widgets that are built over different networks are also suitable. Also the use of enablers is not necessary to carry out the invention. Nothing shall be construed in this application to restrict the invention to embodiments having an SDP and or enablers.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments however take this concept to the next level. The approach described above can take advantage of components such as application programming interfaces APIs to set up a call between two endpoints such as two users or a user and a device or to perform other functions such as connecting five people in a conference call or processing multimedia sessions or receiving call notifications.

Various advantages are obtained by instead defining widgets of multimedia session e.g. call functions including but not limited to telephony functionality. Each widget can provide a function such as for example call or multimedia session forwarding call blocking emergency call initiation conferencing call hunting messaging charging profile etc. Each widget can be a portion of code or light application that sits above the call control enabler of the SDP to provide telephony functionality or other multimedia session functions. These widgets thus can not only provide session manipulation but can provide logic that can be used to process a session and other network e.g. IN functions etc. The widgets can also provide logic for media and multimedia control messaging charging and access to user details.

An application or service thus can combine these widgets to provide multimedia telephony and other IN functionality. For example an application can utilize a set of widgets to authenticate a sender of the communication i.e. a subscriber based on a credentials b profile e.g. pre paid or post paid corporate gold regular etc. or c standing e.g. bill account balance and bill payment settlement status and determine the task that is desired for the communication e.g. based on the subscription profile such as what services settings and preferences have been set for the subscriber . After determining this information the logic in the widgets can be used to determine how to process the communication such as to place a call in voicemail or conference page an associated recipient send a message charge for a service initiate a multimedia session etc.

An implementation of telephony application services thus can utilize the widgets as building blocks to do business signaling allow for the abstraction of the signaling and base signaling. Once this is provided a wide variety of applications can be built to perform functions such as multimedia and call forwarding call blocking call intercepting etc. The widgets can be composed as necessary using the SDP to provide a full fledged telephony application or application service. For example a VoIP application can be created that determines based upon various factors where to forward a call such as may be based on current user presence information user preferences etc. In another example a private branch exchange PBX application can be created that allows a user to in a real time or in a pre programmed fashion decide where calls should be forwarded etc. The composition can be accomplished using any appropriate technology such as Java or BPEL Business Process Execution Language as described for example in the reference incorporated above. These widgets can be composed to provide a new telephony or multimedia application or application service.

Thus an implementation in accordance with one embodiment provides a set of widgets that can be composed to provide a telephony application or application service. The set of widgets can be abstracted from the technology of the underlying network e.g. PBX SIP over IMS etc. to not only expose the call control capability or media server capability but other call related functionality such as forwarding of a call obtaining information about a call authenticating a call hunting for a target checking for presence information directing the call based on this information etc. Full fledged applications such as PBX applications then can be built through composition of the different individual widgets.

Such functionality today would be provided through proprietary implementations without reuse a of the widgets b across protocols c of IT practices to compose widgets. The functions would not be presented as individual call processing widgets that can be composed at will to build an application. Using composed widgets provides advantages such as an ability to react very quickly on a call at that level with the right latency etc. as it is not critical to talk to the application at the time of the call because the logic will be in place for the application to handle the call correctly.

Further many existing application such as VoIP and virtual PBX applications utilize similar functionality but these applications are built separately even in the same environment. Such an approach results in duplication of code and thus a waste of resources and increased chance of error. Using approaches described herein a component such as a call control enabler can be used to build the desired application using the primitive functions or widgets as a composition of those functions in an appropriate environment such as Java or BPEL for example.

An example implementation will now be described that focuses on specific technology and two particular aspects including how to integrate to IMS or PSTN IN features provided on SIP as well as how to provide telephony application services if basic functions are provided such as VoIP Virtual PBX SCIM SIP AS presence adapters to network call control media server control voice access media and multimedia applications e.g. IPTV Video web conferencing call etc. and messaging. It should be understood that these aspects are merely exemplary and that a number of other components can be used substituted and or combined to perform these and other tasks. Some of these are described and or suggested elsewhere herein as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the specification and figures.

It is possible to implement a system where services can be deployed on many networks legacy current future and variations and have them co exist. Examples for implementing such systems can be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 167 705 entitled Roaming Across Different Access Mechanisms and Network Technologies incorporated herein by reference as well as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 357 653 filed Feb. 16 2006 which is cited above.

For example and illustrate an exemplary service delivery platform SDP based architecture that can be used in accordance with one embodiment. In the exemplary architecture of the SDP includes a horizontal standards based platform that abstracts the underlying network resources and follows a service oriented architecture SOA . Further information about such a service delivery platform is detailed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 357 653 filed Feb. 16 2006 cited above. In one embodiment the SDP utilizes a horizontal SOA platform based on the Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE . The SDP includes a converged container based on Java Specification Requests JSR 116 289 and JSR 32 which includes SOA SIP AS OSA AS and telephony AS as a J2EE converged container. The SDP also exposes mobile voice and other communications enablers.

In the SDP configuration is shown to implement the desired functionality on top of an underlying J2EE core provided by the application server. It is valuable to have a common identity managed across all the elements and the network as well as a common view of all the data about a principal. A basic approach to providing a service delivery platform starts with a standards based IT Information Technology platform e.g. J2EE and makes the platform carrier grade and extends beyond Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to protocols such as SIP Diameter and Parlay. To support the key protocols relevant to telecommunications for example the SDP can provide support for SIP ISC Diameter and Parlay Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA as well as adapters to messaging gateways. A standard approach can be used to build adapters to any other resource or protocol using JCA 1.5 J2EE Connector Architecture 1.5 for example. Enablers are provided as reusable components that abstract the network resources and standard northbound interfaces. IT SOA then can be used to provide services such as revenue generating services utilizing SOA based policies and business rules e.g. from third parties . The platform then can provide for SOA based integration of systems and services with the SDP. Exposure to third party content and a service provider can be achieved by SOA to expose integrate and enforce policies. SOA also can be used to also support and rationalize policy management and evaluation throughout the service provider environment.

A set of enablers can be provided and implemented on SIP Parlay or IN protocols. These enablers can include for example a presence enabler that follows OMA SIP SIMPLE Presence XDM and RLS enabler specifications to provide an out of the box IMS presence server and SIP SIMPLE presence server. It can also aggregate presence from other networks e.g. network presence and provide a northbound Parlay X interface for applications to use presence without participating in the presence network. Location data can be modeled as a presence attribute using an extensible presence data model. Enablers can for example allow for multimedia and multiparty call control over SIP internet and IMS as well as Parlay. A media server control enabler and voice access enabler that are the MRFC functions of MRF are able to control a wide variety of voiceXML servers IVRs announcement servers and media servers e.g. MSML MSCML MSCP and MGCP . Protocols not available out of the box can be built on SIP AS or using JCA 1.5.

The present invention relates to the systems and methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 533 773 issued Sep. 10 2013 titled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR IMPLEMENTING SERVICE LEVEL CONSOLIDATED USER INFORMATION MANAGEMENT which is hereby incorporated by reference. A software application can issue a command to create a new account in a unified user profile UUP . The UUP component can cause a workflow to be launched which may consist of one or more business processes which interact with an Operations Support System Business Support System OSS BSS to initiate an update to the OSS BSS owned repository or repositories . Once the OSS BSS repository is updated the UUP continues such that the resulting updates in the OSS BSS repository are reflected in a data hub and UUP or any other repository that may be visible aggregated by the UUP . The UUP is a virtual view of other data repositories such that when data is updated the view by default is also updated. Alternatively the data is synchronized replicated from the repository. In such a situation automation of the process between OSS BSS repositories and the UUP occurs. However if this is not well automated then the workflows may be responsible for triggering the replications in order to make sure the changes are correctly reflected in the UUP. The end result seen by the application is the same but any corresponding actions are taken care of by the workflow. Another alternative has the UUP component updating the data in a database component with SOA data management capabilities wherein the database component itself is able to trigger a workflow that creates a business process which interacts with the OSS BSS.

The enabler of is connected to a life cycle management interface. The interaction between a life cycle management interface and an enabler is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 458 703 issued Jun. 4 2013 titled RESOURCE ABSTRACTION VIA ENABLER AND METADATA which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The enablers and enabler framework can provide for use of SOA throughout the SDP based approach to providing telephony application services providing exposure of Web services to third parties and or third party gateways and providing the implementation of policy application and orchestration in BPEL including functionality such as carrier grade BPEL SOA. The Enabler framework also can provide for the use of rules or policies PDP as well as technologies such as BAM and Studio SCE Service Creation Environment . The use of an enabler framework also can allow various policies to be applied such as OSE PE OMA PEEM IETF PDP PEP 3PGW or Subscriber GW policies which can be implemented on an SOA based architecture to take advantage of BPEL a rules engine Oracle Web Services Manager OWSM etc. Any process execution language can be used including not only BPEL but also various other rules scripts etc. The enablers also can provide for OSS BSS SDP integration providing functionality such as WS ESB SOA etc. as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 019 335 filed Jan. 24 2008 cited above.

As discussed above such an approach provides for integration with networks such as IMS and legacy networks. illustrates an example of one such implementation in accordance with one embodiment. In this example applications and enablers at the service layer utilizing an SDP as described above are able to access resources such as IMS resources SIP resources and legacy or other network resources through an adapter or integration framework as discussed elsewhere herein. The framework can include SIP application services to access SIP resources as well as OSA application services to access other network resources using Parlay JCA to IN protocols etc. and both the SIP AS and OSA AS can be used to access IMS resources e.g. S CSCF. Such an implementation provides for co existence of the resources across the networks along with a smooth migration to new or additional networks. Such an implementation also can provide for convergence via network abstractions allowing services on any networks as well as Identity Management through the SP domain and shared integrated OSS BSS for true convergence.

As illustrated in the stack of use of an SDP allows an SOA based implementation to be used for telephony AS independent of the network technology and or vendor. As can be seen there can be various network components and gateways such as PSTN Wireless and IP Network components. A network and gateway layer can be used in combination with a network adapter layer or as part of the same layer in order to communicate with the various components and gateways. Application middleware can take advantage of the network adapter layer to provide for functions such as development deployment execution and management independent of business rules and the specific network. The SOA infrastructure and business rules then can be provided as a layer on top of the middleware layer providing for the application of business rules and SOA including functions such as PE rules orchestration WSGW WS gateway etc.

The service plane in also includes a SIP servlet container providing functionality such as proxy registrar and location functionality. illustrates an example of an example architecture for such a SIP container that can be used in accordance with one embodiment. Such an implementation can be used to provide a communication and mobility server in one embodiment which can be used to provide a telephony AS on devices such as telephones cellular phones PDAs etc. The architecture is shown to include a number of SIP infrastructure enablers . One such enabler is a presence enabler for providing presence information such as SIP SIMPLE Presence XDM RLS and aggregation. Other enablers can include a proxy for SIP routing a registrar enabler for mapping a public address to current user information a location enabler for determining current user SIP network location an application router etc. The architecture also includes an application session component allowing SIP and HTTP servlets for example to share session state via an application object. The architecture can also include containers and protocol components for HTTP SIP and other protocols as needed for the target network and gateway components.

The SIP container in is in one embodiment a JSR 116 or JSR 289 compliant container that provides converged application support e.g. click to call radius support e.g. a specialized login module and integrated AAA database and Session Traversal Utilities for NAT STUN support. The container also can provide support for integrating with ENUM E.164 Number Mapping databases for number translation. The container can be compatible with Diameter Sh Ro Rf . . . and can provide availability across platforms such as Linux SUN Solaris HPUX AIX Windows etc.

Such a communication and mobility server in one embodiment can provide support for a scalable proxy registrar and location services for VoIP applications as well as a re brandable VoIP video IM client. The server also can be IMS ready able to be deployed as an IMS SIP application server and or an IMS presence server. The presence server can be SIP SIMPLE compliant and can provide XDM XML Document Management RLS Resource List Server and Presence Aggregation Support. The presence server also can be OMA Open Mobile Alliance and IMS compliant.

Such a network connectivity server can allow Next Generation Networking NGN applications to be developed that run on today s networks providing a smooth migration of services from legacy to IMS IP. The inclusion of a network adaptation layer provides JCA 1.5 based connectivity to a Parlay gateway which is extensible to any resource and provides for OSA AS in J2EE using Parlay Parlay X realization APIs and working on JCA 1.5 and SIP. The layer also provides multi application server support and high performance. For example illustrates a view of an implementation of the OSA AS component of in accordance with one embodiment which rigorously follows a Parlay 5.1 Java Realization J2EE Local and Parlay X 2.1 WS. While the enablers in such an implementation may share northbound interfaces with Parlay JR X the enablers can be more than simply Parlay components as discussed elsewhere herein.

As discussed such approaches can be used to provide telephone application services that can be utilized by a number of different applications and technologies. In one example a VoIP application can be provided that takes advantage of implementations in accordance with various embodiments. For example illustrates an example wherein an interface for a VoIP application is shown to allow a user such as an operator to access and utilize the system to communicate with devices such as soft VoIP Video clients terminal adapters and third party soft clients. Such a VoIP application can compose a selection of widgets to provide functions such as voice calling video calling instant messaging including audio messaging call history custom presence subscription and publication presence policy management multi account management contact list management custom installer branded skins and themes and high quality audio and video codecs including G.711 G.729 H.261 and H.263. A VoIP application also can be extensible on SDP providing functions such as presence and instant messaging e.g. Presence VoIP Video Presence VoIP Video SIP Interoperability with X10 and Presence VoIP Termination on PSTN Call out . Such an application also can provide functionality such as call in SMS out SMS in dual ring video mail ring back tone location based RBT etc. Such a VoIP application can include features such as legal intercept class 5 features PSTN and voice mail routing call forwarding caller privacy and or identity incoming and outgoing call barring PSTN prefix ENUM routing address translation local number routing emergency service routing ACR DCR regulatory features and legal intercept CALEA and similar built on an industry standard platform such as J2EE and running on commodity hardware.

Various features exposed by such a platform as enablers or applications can be combined using SOA or SOA SCIM such as is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 018 718 filed Jan. 23 2008 entitled Service Oriented Architecture Based SCIM Platform pending examination and application dispatching such as is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 969 343 filed Jan. 4 2008 entitled Abstract Application Dispatcher pending examination each of those applications hereby being incorporated herein by reference. In an SOA SCIM based approach use or the SDP provides for other approaches where in S CSCF or in network or limited to SIP AS lacks service level context composition with other enablers. Service level intrinsic SCIM functions can be provided as application routing on the message SIP servlet composition for SIP only SOA composition of enablers application building blocks or applications and or application dispatching in service layer. The services thus can be applied on call by combining using SOA SCIM or application dispatching.

Integration of such functionality with IMS is achieved in one embodiment as illustrated in the example of . In the figure OCMS Oracle Communication and Mobility Server is the SDP were the telephony AS executes. Such an implementation can provide for application dispatching as well as VoIP VPBX domain with registrar location replication such as is described in more detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 383 024 filed May 12 2006 entitled SIP Routing Customization pending examination which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Such a deployment also can provide for third party registration to S CSCF. In all cases the S CSCF now identifies inclusion of the SIP AS on the message path i.e. as a Telephony service . Using VoIP with such a deployment provides telephony AS in J2EE for example to provide VoIP services dispatched on calls SCIM VPBX Adapters JCA 1.5 or Network GWs e.g. PIMG to integrate to NGN legacy resources IP PBX and IP Centrex and custom features as J2EE components. The method of integration can be made relatively generic in order to allow integration of a non IMS SIP application to IMS or an application that provides Telephony service on SDP i.e. via enabler to IMS and legacy PSTN IN networks because the services are abstracted from the network. The application may also need access to user data but this can be accomplished in one embodiment using a unified user provide UUP discussed above that provides a virtual view of the all the subscriber data.

In accordance with the above descriptions a set of widgets can be built on various programming models in an operating environment discussed below . Each widget represents a base function required for the support of typical and other telephony functions such as 

In an embodiment the functions in the widgets above are implemented as reusable components e.g. SIP servlets or SOA service calling enablers . The functions could also be implemented on SIP servlets or on an IN as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 021 991 filed Feb. 7 2011 titled SERVICE BASED CONSOLIDATION OF APPLICATION ACROSS NETWORKS which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The widgets are then composed in code logic or via business processes like BPEL which may be precompiled at run time .

Applications such as conference VpBX or Telephony class 5 e.g. residential VoIP can be built as a combination of widgets such as the example widgets below 

Some advantages of present embodiments over prior technology are that 1 the same widgets can be used for almost all network technologies 2 IT SOA development of the widgets can be performed on an IT platform e.g. JEE and 3 there can be IT SOA composition of widgets via IT tools e.g. BPEL studio .

Some widgets may not be connected to any enablers but may be included in the application for internal use. Adjunct widgets can provide internal functions and processes for the application. Widgets are reusable components that implement a function useful to applications. Some widgets may provide things like a web or message driven interface to manage a queue that is really not a calling enabler but a separate reusable type of application module.

Applications can be a composition of widgets utilizing BPEL or other script logic code to integrate elements. The widgets can be mixed and matched to provide telephony services billing services and other functionality at the back end as part of the application. Separating the widgets and functionality from the particular network can allow the same application to be used on different networks without alteration.

In certain embodiments an application is used on two or more networks at the same time. One network can be a local area network and another a public switched telephone network PSTN . Because the application services both disparate networks at the same time the application behaves the same on each network. If a user switches from one network to another while using the application the application can use the same memory states cache pages and other back end server efficiency mechanisms to speed responses.

With an embodiment in which an application serves multiple disparate networks at the same time a technician may be able to more easily troubleshoot and debug problems. One could test a function of the application on one network then test the same function on the other network. If the same symptom of the problem occurs then the technician could narrow down the problem to the application. If the symptom is different on the two networks then the technician would narrow the problem to the network and not the application. This troubleshooting can be automated as well to determine the rough boundaries of the problem and whether anomaly occurs on the network or in the application.

In most embodiments the system includes some type of network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols GRPS GSM UMTS EDGE 2G 2.5G 3G 4G Wimax WiFi CDMA 2000 WCDMA the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server computers which can be general purpose computers specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. One or more of the servers e.g. may be dedicated to running applications such as a business application a Web server application server etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers .

The Web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The Web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers business applications and the like. The server s also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers . As one example a server may execute one or more Web applications. The Web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The system may also include one or more databases . The database s may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example a database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and or in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10g that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

