---

title: Method and apparatus for dynamic power savings based on location
abstract: Techniques to dynamically manage power for a mobile computing device based on a location of the device are described. For example, a mobile computing device may comprise one or more wireless transceivers, a location module operative to monitor one or more location parameters for the mobile computing device, and a power management module operative to dynamically enable or disable one or more of the wireless transceivers based on a comparison of the one or more location parameters and information from a wireless communication technology database. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874130&OS=08874130&RS=08874130
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08874130
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth. In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing such an array of functionality in a single device may require one or more wireless transceivers. Each wireless transceiver may be associated with one or more wireless communication technologies and each may each consume device power. When the device is operated in an area in which fewer than all of the available wireless communication technologies are available operating each wireless transceiver may consume device power unnecessarily. It may be advantageous to disable one or more unavailable or underperforming wireless transceivers to conserve power improve performance and improve the user experience based on a location of the device if it known that certain wireless communication technologies are not available at that location. As a result it is desirable to enhance the dynamic selection enabling or disabling of wireless communications technologies or wireless transceivers. For example it may be advantageous to dynamically disable a wireless communication technology or wireless transceiver based on a location of a mobile computing device and information from a wireless communication technology database. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve the management of mobile computing device power consumption based on wireless transceivers or wireless communication technologies.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to power management techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to dynamically enabling or disabling one or more wireless transceivers of a mobile computing device based on a comparison of one or more location parameters associated with the mobile computing device and information from a wireless communication technology database.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a power management module. In various embodiments the power management module may be operative to access a wireless communication technology database compare feature set information for one or more wireless communication technologies based information from the database and based on a location of the mobile computing device determine that one or more wireless communications technologies are unavailable or do not provide a sufficient quality of service QoS at the location and selectively and dynamically enable or disable one or more of the wireless transceivers based on the comparison.

Examples of information included in the wireless communication database may include but are not limited to one or more of location parameters network parameters system parameters network availability signal quality signal strength connection speed connection type connection specification cost of connection a list of available voice services a transmission quality parameter a reliability parameter a communication protocol a device capability a voice service feature cost value a power parameter user preference a location a calling region and so forth.

Other examples of communication parameters may include without limitation a network scanning threshold parameter a radio frequency channel parameter an access point parameter a rate selection parameter a frame size parameter an aggregation size parameter a packet retry limit parameter a protocol parameter a radio parameter modulation and coding scheme MCS acknowledgement parameter media access control MAC layer parameter physical PHY layer parameter and any other communication parameters affecting operations for a radio transceiver or wireless communication technology implemented by a mobile computing device. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The terms wireless network wireless transceiver s and wireless connection technology are interchangeable as used hereinafter.

Dynamically disabling one or more wireless transceivers based on location information and information from a wireless communication technology database may provide several advantages. For example by disabling a wireless transceiver associated with a connection technology that is not available at a current location device power may be conserved. If a user is in an area where it known based on information in the wireless communication technology database that a Wi Fi connection is not available for example it may be advantageous for the mobile computing device to automatically and or dynamically disable the wireless transceiver associated with Wi Fi connections in order to prevent time outs and to conserve power associated with the device continually scanning for a Wi Fi network. This may be accomplished in some embodiments by comparing information obtained from a wireless communication technology database with a location of the mobile computing device.

Present implementations for conserving power for a mobile computing device include decreasing a polling period for a wireless communication technology when the device is located in a area with low coverage. For example a device may determine that the signal strength for a particularly wireless communication technology is low and may in turn reduce the polling period for that technology. While this approach may result in some reduced power consumption additional power could be saved by dynamically disabling the wireless communication technology. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Pre smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

Similarly in various embodiments remote device may comprise a wireless communication device similar to mobile computing device that may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. For example remote device may comprise a second mobile computing device a router a node B cellular interface gateway switch or other network device capable of wirelessly communicating with mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile computing device may include a processor coupled to the power management module in some embodiments. The processor may be operative to execute the power management module . The mobile computing device may further include a memory coupled to the processor . The memory may be operative to store the power management module and the location module . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise a computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . In some embodiments the computer readable media memory or other storage device may comprise a non transitory storage device. As depicted in the memory may store a power management module and location module in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide dynamic power management operations for the mobile computing device . Although the power management module and location module are shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that power management module and or location module may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although power management module and location module are depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for power management module and or location module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may include one or more modules such as transceiver connection technology modules and or antennas arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links and or wireless networks. Examples of a wireless communication links and or wireless networks may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In the latter case the wireless nodes may include one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transmitter receivers transceivers radios chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth. In one embodiment certain devices may include antenna arrays of multiple antennas to implement various adaptive antenna techniques and spatial diversity techniques. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the location module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS or GPS module compass cellular triangulation logic dead reckoning logic relative positioning logic or any other suitable device or logic operative to monitor location parameters for mobile computing device to determine a location of the mobile computing device . Location parameters may include a current location speed or direction of movement or any other suitable parameter used for determining a current or future location of mobile computing device .

In some embodiments the location of the mobile computing device may comprise a current location. For example location module may be operative to determine the current location of the mobile computing. In various embodiments the location may comprise one or more anticipated locations of the mobile computing device. In some embodiments the location module may be operative to estimate the one or more anticipated locations of the mobile computing device using one or more of a global positioning system GPS a compass a GPS history a known destination location or address or a direction and or speed of movement of the mobile computing device . For example mobile computing device may include a GPS module operative to report a current location of the mobile computing device to the connection location module and to also report one or more anticipated future locations of the mobile computing device based on an address entered by the user for use in determining directions to a known location.

In various embodiments power management module may be configured to and or operative to dynamically enable or disable one or more of the wireless transceivers or wireless connection technologies based on a comparison of the one or more location parameters received from the location module and information from a wireless communication technology database. In some embodiments the wireless communication technology database may be stored locally on mobile computing device in memory for example. In a preferred embodiment the power management module may be operative to request and receive the wireless communication technology database from a remote device such as remote device for example.

The wireless communication technology database may comprise one or more lists of correlated location information and wireless communication technology information generated in some embodiments. One example of a wireless communication technology database is shown and discussed in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the wireless communication technology database may be generated or populated with data by one or more users of the one or more wireless communication technologies one or more service providers or one or more mobile computing device manufacturers. For example the database may be populated over time by data uploaded by users e.g. crowd sourced regarding available wireless connections at certain locations. Similarly device manufacturers may generate the database and load the database on any number or type of wireless devices that may be available in a wireless network or area. In some embodiments wireless communication service providers may generate and make available the database on any number or type of network components. In various embodiments the coverage database may be populated with information that is learned by each device over time through use in a variety of locations. The information in the coverage database may map a given location to coverage information for different services carriers or wireless connection technologies at that location. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the information contained in the wireless communication technology database may comprise one or more communications parameters comprising one or more of wireless communication technology availability signal strength bandwidth or cost. For example the information may comprise any parameter that are suitable to assist in determining whether or not a wireless communication technology is available in a particular location and or whether or not the wireless communication technology provides a threshold QoS at the location. In some embodiments each database may include information on multiple locations or multiple databases may be provided for multiple locations with each database corresponding to a particular location. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The one or more wireless communication technologies may comprise one or more of cellular Wi Fi wireless local area network WLAN wireless metropolitan area network WMAN or personal area network PAN communication technologies in some embodiments. For example the database may contain information regarding the availability and quality or other factors relating to a cellular voice connection a cellular data connection and a Wi Fi connection in some embodiments. While a limited number of connection technologies and connection parameters for a limited number of uses are described herein for purposes of illustration it should be understood that any suitable connection technology wireless communication technology wireless network standard or communication protocol could be used to establish any type of wireless connection and still fall within the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the power management module may be operative to dynamically disable one or more of the wireless transceivers if one or more wireless communication technologies associated with the one or more wireless transceivers is not available or does not provide a quality of service QoS above a predefined threshold at a location determined using the one or more location parameters. For example the power management module may be configured to compare the location of the mobile computing device with information from database regarding wireless communication technologies at that location. For example power management module may determine that a Wi Fi connection is not available at the current location of the mobile computing device and may disable a wireless transceiver associated with Wi Fi connections to conserve device power.

In some embodiments the power management module may be operative to periodically request one or more location parameters from the location module and perform the comparison with the information from the wireless communication technology database after a predetermined time period or after the mobile computing device has been moved a predetermined distance. For example mobile computing device may include a default time after a transceiver has been disabled until a new or updated database is obtained and a new comparison is performed. In some embodiments the time period may be network specified device specific or user configurable. Similarly mobile computing device may include a default distance after a transceiver has been disabled until a new or updated database is obtained and a new comparison is performed. For example a user may being walking or riding in a motor vehicle with their mobile computing device and may enter an area in which the previous information obtained from database is no longer applicable. As a result it may be desirable to obtain a new or updated database and perform a new comparison after a mobile computing device has traveled moved or otherwise been relocated a certain distance. The distance may be a default distance a user configurable distance or the distance may be calculated based on knowledge of available connections in an area surrounded the original location of the mobile computing device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments power management module may comprise or include an algorithm for performing the comparison based on the database information. In various embodiments the power management module may be configured to execute an algorithm to generate an expected quality of service QoS or service matrix for each connection technology wireless network or carrier and may select a connection technology or wireless network to be disabled based on the expected QoS or switching matrix. For example the algorithm may include any of the above or any other factors relevant to establishing a wireless connection using one of a plurality of available connection technologies . In some embodiments the expected QoS and or service matrix may be based on one or more performance or cost metrics for each available connection technology . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the power management module may be configured to automatically initiate a wireless connection with one or more target devices using a connection technology or wireless network that is not or will not be disabled based on the comparison. For example after performing the dynamic disabling of one or more unavailable or underperforming network technologies mobile computing device may automatically initiate or establish a wireless connection using any one or more of the remaining connection technologies.

A power management preference application may comprise one or more visible user interfaces for ease of use in some embodiments. For example the application may comprise a simple interface allowing a user to enable or disable the dynamic power management feature and to select preferences for establishing connections including time distance and or feature preferences for one or more wireless networks. Preferences may include for example ranking of items by importance to the user such as cost quality processing impact or any other factor. In some embodiments an underlying or hidden layer may be configured for decision making. For example the algorithm described above may comprise the underlying layer.

In various embodiments the power management module may be configured to monitor any selected connection technologies or wireless networks after a connection has been established. For example mobile computing device may establish a connection with a wireless network or remote device using a dynamically selected connection technology and the power management module may thereafter continue to monitor to the established connection as well as other available connections. In some embodiments the power management module may be configured to automatically disable one of the one or more connection technologies based on changes in system network or other parameters. For example if the power management module determines that a connection technology has become unavailable or has degraded in quality an additional disabling may occur. The additional steps may be transparent to the user in some embodiments in that the disabling may occur in the background without dropping an existing call or data connection for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in database each table representing connection information for communication technologies and may include different features and locations representing whether or not a particular feature is available in a particular location. For example. Connection technology may include features . In some embodiments connection technology includes features and n at location features and at location features and n at location features and n at location and features and n at location m. In various embodiments power management module may use this information to determine which of one or more wireless transceivers can be disabled. For example if it is determined that mobile computing device is operating at location a wireless transceiver or wireless communication technology associated with feature may be disabled.

Database represents a simplified version of a sample wireless communication technology database and simply illustrates whether or not a particular feature is available at a particular location. In some embodiments database may additionally include information concerning the strength or quality of one or more features or connection or any other suitable information. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the database may be stored on a computer readable storage medium of the mobile computing device or it may be stored on one or more remote device one or more devices of the wireless networks or a home wireless network and may be wirelessly accessible by the mobile computing device . The computer readable storage medium that contains the database and the feature set information may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM of the mobile computing device in some embodiments. In various embodiments the feature set information may be preconfigured or preloaded and stored on the SIM by a home wireless network provider or by a user of the mobile computing device. For example a home wireless network provider may preload a SIM with roaming wireless network information including feature set information for the roaming wireless networks or carriers. In some embodiments a user of mobile computing device may additionally or alternatively have the option of updating changing or otherwise amending the database to reflect changes in roaming wireless networks or to reflect user preferences.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some embodiments a location of a mobile computing device may be determined at . For example location module may be used to determine a current or estimated future location of mobile computing device . At a wireless communication technology database may be requested based on the location. For example power management module may request database from remote device based on a determined location of mobile computing device .

At in various embodiments the location may be compared with information contained in the wireless communication technology database. For example power management module may include an algorithm configured to compare the location of mobile computing device with connection information contained in database to determine what communication technologies are available at that location. In various embodiments one or more wireless transceivers may be dynamically enabled or disabled based on the comparison at . For example power management module may determined based on the information in the database and the location of the mobile computing device determined and retrieved from location module that one or more of wireless connection technologies are not available at a particular location and may disable the associated wireless connection technology to conserve power for mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments the wireless communication technology database may be requested from a remote device. For example mobile computing device and or power management module may request database from remote device . In other embodiments the wireless communication technology database may be requested from a memory of the mobile computing device. For example the database may be stored in memory or any other suitable memory of mobile computing device .

A determination may be made as to whether or not one or more wireless communication technologies associated with the one or more wireless transceivers is available at the location in various embodiments. For example power management module may determine based on information in database that one or more of transceivers is not available at a particular location. In some embodiments a determination may be made as to whether or not one or more wireless communication technologies associated with the one or more wireless transceivers provides a quality of service QoS above a predefined threshold at the location. For example power management module may determine that one or more of transceivers are associated with a connection in a particular location that will not provide an adequate level of services. Based on these determination in various embodiments the one or more of the wireless transceivers or more wireless communication technologies associated with connections or services that are not available at the location or do not provide a quality of service QoS above the predefined threshold may be disabled. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments a time period may be measured or a distance that the mobile computing has traveled may be calculated since a last request for a wireless communication technology database. For example power management module may be operative to track how long it has been or how far mobile computing device has traveled since a last database has been acquired or since a last check regarding the status of available connections has been performed. In some embodiments an updated wireless communication technology database may be requested if a predetermined amount of time has lapsed or a predetermined distance has been traveled. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth similar to transceivers connection technologies of . In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals similar to antennas of . As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Palm WebOS Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a power management module . The power management module may be the same or similar to the power management module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

