---

title: Techniques for determining the effects on a system of a component that has four states
abstract: Techniques for determining effects on a biological system include determining rate constants for a particular time interval starting at an initial time. Each rate constant indicates a rate of transition from one of four states to a different one of the four states for a component of a biological system in presence of an external factor. A temporal change in a probability that the component is in a particular state after the initial time is determined without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. This includes determining three relaxation time constants that describe exponential changes based on the rate constants. The effect of the external factor on the biological system is determined based on the temporal change in the probability that the component is in the particular state. The probability at an arbitrary time is determined based on the rate constants and initial probabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08180577&OS=08180577&RS=08180577
owner: University of Maryland, Baltimore
number: 08180577
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims benefit of application Ser. No. 11 687 635 filed Mar. 17 2007 which claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60 783 935 filed Mar. 20 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. HL068733 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to determining an effect of a factor on a biological system by determining a temporal change in probability of a component occupying a particular one of up to four distinguishable configurations called states. In a particular embodiment an effect of a factor such as presence of a ligand or introduction of a voltage change on an ion channel in a membrane of a cell is determined by determining a temporal change in probability that the ion channel is in one of four distinguishable states.

Many biological systems important to a normal or diseased processes in a cell can be described as dependent on the population of different states of each of one or more different components especially protein molecules. A protein molecule typically has many possible configurations both absent external forcing and in response to the presence of external factors that exert some force on the protein. External factors can take many forms from the application of an external voltage to the presence of ligands that bind at one or more sites on the protein. The probability that a protein is in one configuration or another is affected by these factors. The probability can be expressed by repeating an experiment many times with the same protein starting configuration and the introduction of the same factor and counting the occurrence of each state in the group of experiments. By the same token the probability can be expressed by determining the percentage of a large number of the same protein that occupies each of the states. The bulk process of the cell is then dependent in part on the percentage of the population in each of the states.

For example a protein that resides in a cell interior is acted upon by a therapeutic pharmacological agent when the protein is in one configuration but not in a different configuration. The effectiveness of the therapeutic agent then depends on the probability that the protein is in a particular state which corresponds to the population of the different states for a large number of molecules of that protein.

In one well known and heavily studied example the protein molecule serves as a gated ion channel in a cell membrane that blocks passage of a certain ion in one or more states and allows passage of the certain ions through the membrane in one or more other states that can be induced by application of a certain voltage as an external gating factor. The controlled passage of such ions is essential in some very important bulk cell processes such as the conduction of electrical impulses in nerve cells and muscle cells. The open state of an ion channel can be measured by a current that flows through the channel. When a channel is closed or inactive no ions flow and current is zero. When an ion channel is inactive it does not respond to the external gating factor by switching to an open state.

The features of average trace include an exponentially increasing current in a negative direction along portion and an exponentially decreasing current in the negative direction along portions and . The response of such proteins to the presence or absence of external forcing is the object of efforts to predict and control cell processes for both diagnosis and treatment of disease. Example uses include drug response and drug screening applications. The features of average trace not only represent measured current changes but also indicate the temporal change in the probability that the ion channel is in the open state of the three or four states used to explain the membrane behavior. Viewed in this light shows an exponentially increasing probability of an open state along portion and an exponentially decreasing probability of the open state along portions and .

Observations of the type depicted in have been explained by proposing three states for the protein serving as the ion channel. Other observations showing a delay in response to a voltage change have been explained using four or more states including two or more closed or inactivation states e.g. see R. Hahin and L. Goldman Initial Conditions and the Kinetics of the Sodium Conductance in Giant Axons I. Effects on the Time Course of the Sodium Conductance v72 pp 863 877 1978 . Goldman Gating current kinetics in Myxicola giant axons v59 pp 574 589 1991 and L. Goldman Sodium Channel Inactivation from Closed States Evidence for an Intrinsic Voltage Dependency v69 pp 2369 2377 1995 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein . Of course each state used to explain an observable behavioral effect may consist of one or more actual states.

In many circumstances the temporal changes of probability for states for a particular protein are predicted based on an initial population distribution among the states values for rate constants for the transition from one state to another and a system of ordinary differential equations. Generally such rate constants can be assumed constant only for a particular protein and fixed external forcing. Nevertheless much progress is made in predicting cell processes under these conditions. The solutions require numerical computations that are effectively performed only using computers iterative methods and long iteration times with many time steps.

The process is used both to determine rate constants that match observations in the presence of various factors e.g. to fit the rate constants to the observations and also to predict the behavior of the biological system based on the rate constants determined independently of those observations e.g. based on previously determined rate constants in earlier experiments in the same laboratory or published in the scientific literature.

Analytical solutions that do not require computationally intense iterative methods have been developed for fewer than four states and for four states when certain rate constants are eliminated forced to zero . However with no general analytical solution many workers are forced to employ the computationally intense iterative methods over many small time steps to deduce the temporal changes in probability for a particular state or states. This impedes both the determination of rate constants to match data and the prediction of effects of an external factor on a system given its effect on one or more rate constants.

Based on the foregoing there is a clear need for an analytical solution for time changes in probability for a general four state biological system based on rate constants alone or in combination with initial population distributions of the four states.

Techniques are provided for determining effects on a system of a component with four states. The techniques include determining rate constants for a particular time interval starting at an initial time. Each rate constant indicates a rate of transition from one of four states to a different one of the four states for a component of a biological system in presence of an external factor. A temporal change in a probability that the component is in a particular state after the initial time is determined without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. This includes determining three relaxation time constants that describe exponential changes based on the rate constants. The effect of the external factor on the biological system is determined based on the temporal change in the probability that the component is in the particular state.

In some embodiments initial probabilities for the four states are also determined. Then the probability at an arbitrary time is determined based on the rate constants and the initial probabilities.

These techniques allow temporal changes in behavior of system to be more quickly predicted. In turn this allows predictions to be more easily compared to observations and rate constants to be more quickly and easily tuned to observations.

A method computer readable medium and apparatus are described for determining an effect of an external factor on a biological system. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of an ion channel in a cell membrane in which the ion channel occupies one of an open state a first closed state a second close state corresponding to a delayed response to an external voltage and an inactive state that does not open in response to an external voltage but may recover to one of the closed states in response to an external voltage. One of these embodiments is described by L. Goldman Quantitative Analysis of a Fully Generalized Four State Genetic Scheme vol. 91 pp 173 178 July 2006 hereinafter Goldman the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments other biological systems such as other cell organelles are involved having four or fewer states of proteins or other components of the biological system that respond to other physical or chemical factors. For example in some embodiments an ion channel in a cell membrane responds to a concentration of a ligand or other molecule in the vicinity of the ion channel. In some embodiments the component is a protein that is not an ion channel for a cell membrane and the external factor is a chemical compound of a class called a ligand a receptor agonist a receptor antagonist an antibody and a therapeutic agent. In still other embodiments other non biological systems such as chemical physical climatic systems are modeled with four states.

Furthermore embodiments are described in the context of a forward analytical computation starting with rate constants with or without initial probabilities and deducing temporal changes in probability such as one or more relaxation time constants of one or more states. However in other embodiments the reverse computation can also be performed analytically without resort to numerical iterative methods by making some simplifying assumptions. For example given observed values of one or more relaxation time constants or steady state probabilities based on observed temporal changes a corresponding number of unknown values of rate constants can be deduced by using algebra to invert one or more of the equations presented. Once inverted the inverted equations can be used repeatedly to deduce those rate constants from the relaxation times or steady state probabilities. Similarly observations of probability amplitudes for one or more states at one or more times before steady state can be used to deduce a corresponding number of initial probabilities.

In step data is received that indicates rate constants for transitions among four states for a component of a biological system. Any method known in the art for determining and receiving the rate constants data may be used. In some embodiments the rate constants are entered manually or retrieved from a local or remote data base or sent in response to a request sent to a different process on the same or different local or remote computer or received unsolicited from a process on the same or different local or remote computer. In some embodiments the rate constants are based on values in published scientific literature. In some embodiments rate constants are based on previous experiments. In some embodiments one or more rate constants are based on estimated values refined based on output from a previous execution of the steps of method .

The four states for which rate constants are received are designated herein by the numerals . A rate constant is designated by the letter k followed by two numerals the first indicating the source state and the second indicating the destination state. There are twelve rate constants to be received during step to encompass all transitions among the four states k k k k k k k k k k k k. is a block diagram that illustrates the four states and 12 associated rates for transitions between states according to an example embodiment.

The rate constants received during step apply in the presence of certain values for one or more external factors that affect the biological system that are introduced at a certain time called the initial time. The rate constants are assumed constant so long as the external factor values are approximately constant.

In step data is received that indicates initial probabilities for the four states. Any method known in the art for receiving the initial probability data may be used as described above for rate constants data. A probability is designated herein by the letter P followed by a numeral that indicates the state. A probability of a state at the initial time is called the initial probability and is designated by the letter i following the numeral that indicates the state. There are up to four initial probabilities to be received during step to encompass all four states P P P P. In some embodiments the initial probabilities are determined based on the steady state probabilities computed in a previous execution of method for different rate constants. The computation of steady state probabilities designated P P P P for states 0 1 2 3 respectively herein are described in more detail below with reference to . In some embodiments in which only exponential relaxation times or steady state probabilities or both are determined as described in more detail below with respect to step is omitted.

In step temporal changes in probability for one or more states are determined without numerical iterations of time differentials over multiple time steps. This direct determination without computationally intensive numerical iterations provides a distinct advantage for method over prior art approaches when four states are involved. Step is described in more detail below with reference to .

In some embodiments one or more of three relaxation time constants are determined for the change in probability of one or more states. The three relaxation time constants for state are designated herein as a b c. Three relaxation time constants are a characteristic of a four state system and can explain different exponential changes in probability with time in different portions of a trace for example in portions and of trace . Unlike prior approaches the three relaxation time constants can be computed directly from rates without numerical iteration and curve fitting. In some embodiments one or more of four probabilities at one or more arbitrary times t are determined for the change in probability of corresponding one or more states. The four probabilities corresponding to the four states at time t are designated herein as P P P and P respectively. In some embodiments step includes presenting data that indicates the predicted change in probability of one or more states e.g. a b c P P P P or P or some combination.

In step an effect on a biological system is determined based on the temporal change in probability. For example a temporal change in average ion current is determined based on the temporal change in probability of an open state for an ion channel. In some embodiments step includes presenting data that indicates the predicted behavior of the biological system

In step the effect on the biological system is compared to measurements of the biological system. For example a prediction of ion current determined in step is compared to trace in . In some embodiments step is omitted. For example in drug screening or experimental planning a variety of effects are determined in step to determine which drug to test or experiment to perform before any measurements are obtained. In some embodiments step includes presenting data that indicates the relation of predicted and measured behavior of the biological system.

In step it is determined whether to adjust rate constants or initial probabilities or both. For example in embodiments in which the rate constants are not known precisely initial guesses for one or more rate constants are used in step . Based on agreement with measurements in step the rate constants are accepted or changed. Any method may be used to determine whether to adjust the rate constants and initial probabilities and by how much. For example optimal estimation techniques well known in the art may be used to determine a goodness of fit and a change of goodness of fit with each change in one or more rate constants and a next guess for one or more rate constants. In some embodiments the changes in one or more rate constants are determined analytically by inverting one or more algebraic equations used during step and making some simplifying assumptions as appropriate. In some embodiments step is omitted and control passes directly to step to terminate method .

If it is determined in step to adjust one or more rate constants or initial probabilities then control passes back to step to receive data indicating the new rate constants if any and to step to receive the new initial conditions if any.

If it is determined in step not to adjust one or more rate constants or initial probabilities then control passes to step .

The four states for an ion channel are defined in Goldman as Open Closed Closed and Inactive represented by the symbols O IN respectively. One of the closed and closed states represents a state in which there is a perceptibly longer delay between onset of a voltage change and an opening of an ion channel the other closed state represents a closed state in which there is a shorter delay. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the ion channel states O 1 2 IN correspond to the general four states 0 1 2 3 respectively. Furthermore in Goldman the rate constants are also designated by the letter k but with the source and destination states expressed as subscripts following the letter k. The association between symbols used in Goldman and those used in the general case are listed in Table 1.

In step three exponential relaxation time constants are determined based on the rate constants received in step without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. For example the relaxation time constants a b c for the Open state are computed based only on the rate constants by evaluating equations provided in Goldman. These constants are evaluated starting with Goldman equations 9 through 20 that define twelve combinations K K K K K K K K K K K K of the rate constants. Then Goldman equations 22 through 25 that define terms are evaluated. Then Goldman equations 43 and 44 that define terms A and B are evaluated. Then Goldman equations 41 and 42 that define terms and are evaluated. Then Goldman equations 38 through 40 that define relaxation constants a b c are evaluated. The relevant Goldman Equations are provided here as Equations 1 through 23. 112101321 1 20121 2 33121 3 K4 k21 4 501020320 5 61020 6 73020 7 820 8 932313023 9 101323 10 110323 11 K12 k23 12 159 13 191559 26310711 14 159 1711269271036113510 15 3810 17121894710469 K3612 16 3 17 1 27 2 9 27 18 2 4 27 19 2 4 27 20 3 21 3 2 2 3 22 3 2 2 3 23 

These time constants can be used to describe the exponential changes in probability of a state over time using the mathematical constant base of the natural logarithm designated e according to the form P is proportional to eor eor eor some combination in at least a portion of a probability trace. In some embodiments no more computations are made during step and control returns to step after step . In some of these embodiments fewer than all three of Equations 21 through 23 are evaluated to produce fewer than all three relaxation time constants a b c. In such embodiments step to receive the initial probabilities P P P P may be omitted.

An advantage of the analytical solution for relaxation time constants a b c is that an analytical equation relates a given relaxation time constant to a value of a particular rate constant or subset of rate constants. This is not directly known using the iterative numerical methods. With the iterative numerical methods each kij value explored would require another P simulation and then a time constants deduced by curve fitting each simulated trace. Often just one or more simulated traces are presented to a user to assess visually a tedious and error prone task. To determine whether other factors have affected the observations additional iterative numerical simulations would have to be run. Third order differential equations would have to be derived and the relationship between the rate constants and would have to be defined.

In step one or more steady state probabilities designated P P P P for states 0 through 3 respectively are determined for a corresponding one or more states without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. The steady state probabilities are the probabilities at steady state when further temporal changes in probability are negligible. For example the steady state probabilities P P P P are computed based only on the rate constants by further evaluating additional equations in Goldman beyond those evaluated for step . These constants are evaluated with Goldman equations 27 through 31 in which the steady state probabilities P P P P are represented by the symbols Y X W Z respectively as listed in Table 1 . In some embodiments fewer than all steady state probabilities are evaluated. For example in some embodiments only P is evaluated using Equation 24. The relevant Goldman equations are provided here as Equations 24 through 27. 0 1712189471046936123810 24 1 2712351228945938114711 25 3 181115122810451046112612 26 2 1013 27 

In some embodiments no more computations are made during step and control returns to step after step . In such embodiments step to receive the initial probabilities P P P P may be omitted. Again an advantage of the analytical solution for relaxation time constants steady state probabilities is that an analytical equation relates a given steady state probability to a value of a particular rate constant or subset of rate constants. This is not directly known using the iterative numerical methods.

In step initial rates of temporal change for at least three of the four states designated P P P P for states 0 through 3 respectively are determined without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. The initial rates of temporal change are the first time derivative of the probabilities at the initial time t 0 . For example initial rates of temporal change P P P are computed based on the rate constants and the initial probabilities P P Pby further evaluating additional equations in Goldman beyond those evaluated for step and . These constants are evaluated with Goldman equations 6 through 8 at time t 0 substituting P P Pfor Y X and Z respectively. In embodiments that include step step to receive the initial probabilities P P P P should be included. The relevant Goldman equations are provided here as Equations 28 through 30. 05061738 28 11120334 29 39310111012 30 

In step initial rates of temporal curvature for at least one of the four states designated P P P P for states 0 through 3 respectively is determined without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. The initial rates of temporal curvature are the second time derivative of the probabilities at the initial time t 0 . For example initial rate of temporal curvature P is computed based on the rate constants and the initial probabilities P P Pby further evaluating additional equations in Goldman beyond those evaluated for step and . These constants are evaluated with Goldman equation 37 substituting P P P P for dY dt dY dt dX dt and dZ dt respectively. In embodiment that include step step to receive the initial probabilities P P P P should be included. The relevant Goldman equation is provided here as Equations 31. 0506173 31 

In step probability of one or more states at an arbitrary time t designated P P P P for states 0 through 3 respectively is determined without numerical iteration over multiple time steps. For example P is computed using the time t and the values determined above based on rate constants and the initial probabilities P P Pby further evaluating an additional equation in Goldman beyond those evaluated for step and . P is computed with Goldman equation 36 substituting P P P and P for dY dt dY dt Y and Y respectively. Goldman equation 36 is equivalent to the following Equations 32 to 35 for general states 0 1 2 3 0 0 00 32 0 0 00 33 0 0 00 34 0 0 35 

It is noted that for the duration of a time interval after the initial time during which the external factors are constant the rate constants and the initial probabilities are also constant. As a result the terms computed during steps through are also constant i.e. do not vary with t over the time interval. That is the terms P Ca Cb Cc a b c and e in the final equation are all constant. Thus steps through are executed once then step can be executed as many times as desired for a corresponding number of times t in any order and with any large temporal separation. Such is not the case with prior art approaches that use numerical iterative techniques to advance the probabilities in small temporal increments.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. Such signals are examples of carrier waves.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals that are transmitted over transmission media are herein called carrier waves.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface which carry information to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves. Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to an infra red signal a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

