---

title: Geotagging structured data
abstract: A mapping system comprising processes for creating and displaying structured geotagged data using interactive digital geographic imagery is disclosed. In one embodiment, a mapping system comprises processes and logic for creating a geo tag for structured data. A user creates a geo tag for a property of an object by selecting a geographic location on an interactive digital map and selecting the property of the object from a dialog presented to the user in response to selecting the geographic location. In this way, the user can more quickly and easily create structured geotagged data than can be accomplished using typical approaches requiring the user to manually enter geographic coordinates to associate a geographic location with structured data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104695&OS=09104695&RS=09104695
owner: Palantir Technologies, Inc.
number: 09104695
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100721
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 228 935 filed Jul. 27 2009 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The invention is related to creating and displaying data with the use of digital maps and more particularly to computer processes and logic for creating and displaying structured geotagged data with the use of interactive digital geographic imagery.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2009 2010 Palantir Technologies Inc.

Mapping computer systems mapping systems display digital geographic imagery of the Earth at varying perspectives including providing users an oblique view e.g. bird s eye view of objects on the surface of the Earth such as houses buildings roads lakes mountains and the like. Such geographic imagery may comprise satellite imagery aerial photography and the like. Since the Earth is a curved generally spherical object the geographic images are rectified by the mapping systems so that the mapping systems can project the images onto a two dimensional 2 D plane such as a computer display screen.

Mapping systems may use a coordinate system to identify a point on the surface of the Earth. One common coordinate system is geographic coordinates latitude longitude on the World Geodetic System of 1984 WGS84 datum. Latitude is an angular measurement in degrees ranging from 0 degrees at the Earth s equator to 90 degrees at the poles. Longitude is also an angular measurement but measured East or West instead of North or South. For example the location of White House in Washington D.C. on the surface of the Earth as identified by a geographic coordinate is 38.898748 degrees latitude and 77.037684 degrees longitude.

It is often desirable to associate a geographic location with a piece of data and then display the data as a superimposition on digital geographic imagery. For example it may be desirable to associate a geographic location with a street address such that when a map image of the street is displayed the address can be visually indicated by superimposing the text of the address a symbol or other indicator on the map at the geographic location. The process of associating a geographic location with a piece of data typically in the form of geographic coordinates e.g. latitude longitude is known as geotagging. One approach for geotagging typically involves a user identifying the geographic coordinates of a particular location using a mapping system and then manually entering the coordinates into a database containing the one piece of data that is to be geotagged. However this manual approach is awkward and inconvenient for the user and is a serious drawback for organizations that require geotagging of many thousands or many millions of pieces of data.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

Computer mapping processes for creating and displaying structured geotagged data using interactive digital geographic imagery are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

The present disclosure is directed to processes and logic for creating and displaying structured geotagged data using interactive digital geographic imagery digital maps .

In one embodiment a mapping system comprises processes and logic for creating a geo tag for existing structured data. According to one embodiment a user creates a geo tag for a property of an existing object by selecting a geographic location on an interactive digital map and selecting the property of the existing object from a dialog presented to the user in response to selecting the geographic location. A property value is input. The object and a property may be selected from among objects and properties that have been defined in an extensible object ontology that is coupled to the processes or logic. Multiple objects may be associated with the same geographic location. Multiple instances of the same object having different property values may be associated with the same geographic location. In this way the user can more quickly and easily create structured geotagged data than can be accomplished using typical approaches requiring the user to manually enter geographic coordinates to associate a geographic location with structured data.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises processes and logic for creating a geo tag for new structured data. According to an embodiment a user creates a geo tag for a property of a new object by selecting a geographic location on an interactive digital map and entering a label name for the new object in a dialog presented to the user in response to selecting the geographic location. In this way the mapping system allows a user to simultaneously create a geo tag and the structured data to which the tag will be associated. Further the geo tag and the structured data can be created through a single graphical user interface dialog.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises processes and logic for sourcing a geo tag. According to one embodiment the mapping system allows the user to associate a geo tag with a source of information about the geo tag such as a document media file hyperlink and the like. Multiple sources may be associated with the same geographic location.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises processes and logic for creating a geo tag for structured data from a geographic location that is determined by submitting a query string to a gazetteer system. According to one embodiment the mapping system allows the user to enter a query string related to a geographic location which the mapping system in turn submits to a gazetteer system. The gazetteer system returns geographic coordinates corresponding to the entered query string and the mapping system presents to the user an interactive digital map image of the Earth that corresponds to the returned geographic coordinates. The user can then geo tag structured data by selecting a geographic location on the interactive digital map and either selecting a property of an existing object from a dialog presented to the user in response to selecting the geographic location or entering a label name for the new object in a dialog.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises a process and logic for concurrent display of structured geotagged data superimposed on a digital map image and a histogram displaying properties of the structured geotagged data as a function of time.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises a process and logic for concurrent display of filtered structured geotagged data superimposed on a digital map image and a histogram displaying properties of the filtered structured geotagged data as a function of time.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises processes and logic for concurrent display of structured geotagged data superimposed on a digital map image. The displayed structured geotagged data fall into one or more user selected time windows selected by interacting with a concurrently displayed histogram.

In another embodiment the mapping system comprises processes and logic for dynamic and updated display of structured geotagged data superimposed on a digital map image. The displayed structured geotagged data fall into a user selected time window on a concurrently displayed histogram. The display of the geotagged data superimposed on the image is dynamically updated as the user adjusts the selected time window.

In the embodiment illustrated in client which may be implemented by one or more first physical computing devices is communicatively connected to application server which may be implemented by one or more second physical computing devices over one or more networks network links or inter networks. In some embodiments each such physical computing device may be implemented as a separate computer system as show in . For example client may be implemented in a computer system as a set of program instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium while application server may be implemented in a different computer system.

Client comprises graphical user interface GUI logic GUI logic may be a set of program instructions which when executed by one or more processors of the computer system is operable to receive user input and display one or more graphic constructs related to creating and displaying structured geotagged data using the approaches herein. GUI logic may be operable to receive user input from and display the graphic constructs to a graphical user interface that is provided on display by the computer system on which client executes.

Client may also interact with application server to provide input definition editing instructions expressions related to one or more objects or constructs as described herein using a programmatic interface. Application server may use process log store or otherwise interact with the received input according to application server logic.

Application server may be implemented as a computer system having the logical elements show in . In an embodiment the logical elements may comprise program instructions recorded on one or more computer readable storage media. Alternatively the logic elements may be implemented in hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

When executed by one or more processors of the computer system logic in application server is operable to create and display or otherwise use structured geotagged data using digital maps according to the techniques described herein. In one embodiment application server may be implemented in a Java Virtual Machine JVM that is executing in a distributed or non distributed computer system. In other embodiments application server may be implemented as a combination of programming instructions written in any programming language e.g. C or Visual Basic and hardware components e.g. memory CPU time that have been allocated for executing the program instructions.

In an embodiment application server comprises repository data access logic and mapping logic . Repository data access logic may comprise a set of program instructions which when executed by one or more processors are operable to access and retrieve data including digital map data structured data and structured geotagged data from data repository . For example repository data access logic may be database client or a Java Database Connectivity JBDC client that supports calls to a database server that manages data repository . Data repository may be any type of structured storage for storing data including but not limited to relational or object oriented databases data warehouses directories data files and any other structured data storage.

In the embodiment illustrated in mapping logic comprises logic to create read update and delete digital map data structured data and structured geotagged data in response to input from client . Mapping logic also comprises logic for processing input from client and for providing data to be rendered by GUI logic on display in response to client input. In one embodiment mapping logic is object oriented logic developed using an object oriented programming language such as the Java programming language. Further for purposes of illustrating a clear example certain embodiments are described with mapping logic receiving input from and providing output to client under control of a user. Alternatively mapping logic may define an application programming interface API and may receive input in the form of calls or programmatic requests from other logic systems or software elements and may provide output in the form of responses to the calls. Thus all description herein of user interaction with mapping logic broadly encompasses programmatic interaction with mapping logic without direct user involvement.

Application server may be connected to a gazetteer system . Gazetteer system is a computer system that functions as a geographical index. In one embodiment gazetteer system receives as input a search or query string and returns a list of geographic coordinates that correspond to the inputted query string. Gazetteer system may maintain a database for associating text with geographical coordinates. Gazetteer system may provide an online network accessible interface that can be accessed by another computer system such as application server using known or standardized network protocols such as the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP . Alternatively gazetteer system may be a component of application server .

In one embodiment geo tagging logic implements the functions described herein for creating a geo tag for structured data. Data sourcing logic implements the functions described herein for associating data sources with structured geotagged data. Gazetteer logic is configured to interact with gazetteer system by submitting search queries to gazetteer system and receiving in response a set of search results in the form of one or more geographic coordinates that correspond or match the given query. Gazetteer logic may interoperate with geo tagging logic to implement the functions described herein for creating a geo tag for structured data using a gazetteer system. Histogram logic implements the functions described herein for concurrent display of structured geotagged data superimposed on a digital map image and a histogram displaying properties of the structured geotagged data as a function of time. Event windowing logic implements the functions described herein for displaying filtered structured geotagged data according to user selected time windows. Filtering logic implements the functionality described herein for generating and displaying views of filtered structured geotagged data. Geo temporal filtering logic implements the functions described herein for generating geo temporal displays of filtered structured geotagged data.

In an embodiment logics may be implemented in a single computer program or module or implemented in a fewer number of computer programs or modules than is shown in . Further portions of logic may be implemented by computer systems other than application server such as for example by GUI logic of client . Thus the structural separation of functional modules as shown in is not required and the same functions described herein for such functional modules may be implemented structurally in any other convenient manner.

As shown in data repository may comprise structured data structured geotagged data map data and data sources . Structured data and structured geotagged data is described in greater detail below. Map data refers data for rendering geographic images on the display of client . Map data may comprise a library of digital images comprising satellite and aerial images of the surface of the Earth. In addition map data comprises image metadata for mapping a given image coordinate from an image of the Earth to a corresponding geospatial coordinate. Data sources refers broadly to any data that serves as a data source for structured data or structured geotagged data . Non limiting examples of data sources include electronic documents e mails electronic images or other media files a reference or link such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL to a document available from another computer system and the like.

Structured data is any data that adheres to a conceptual data model. In one embodiment the mapping system works with structured data that adheres to a conceptual data model comprising objects and properties that are organized according to an object ontology. An object represents a real world entity such as a person place or thing. An object can also represent a real world event such as a phone call or a meeting . Each object may have one or more properties for describing various aspects of the object. For example a person object may have an address property and a phone number property. Instances of objects may be labeled for identification. For example an instance of a person object may be labeled with the person s name.

The structured data may be stored in a database managed by a computer based database management system such as a relational database management system RDBMS according to a fixed or dynamic structure of data containers e.g. tables and relationships. The database structure may be described using an ontology embodied in a database schema comprising a data model that is used to represent the structure and reason about objects and properties in the structure. In an embodiment the ontology is provided as described in PCT international patent publication PCT US2008 064207 A2.

In one embodiment the mapping system works with objects and properties according to a user specified ontology specified in terms of object types and property types. Non limiting examples of object types include a person object type a location object type and an event object type. Non limiting examples of property types include an address property type a phone number property type and a location name property type. Objects may have any number of properties. Objects stored as structured data in the database may be instantiated based on user defined object types. Each property of an object stored as structured data may be instantiated based on user defined property types. Further object types and property types may be instantiated based on a base type. For example a base type for a home object type may be a location object type. The object ontology may be dynamically extended during use of the mapping system described herein by entering new names of objects or new property names causing the system to create entries for the objects or properties in the ontology.

Structured geotagged data is structured data that is associated with a geo tag. A geo tag is geospatial metadata that represents a point on the surface of the Earth according to a geospatial coordinate. A geo tag may be stored in a database and associated with structured data according to a database data model such as for example a relational database model.

In one embodiment a geo tag comprises an identifier of a location and an optional date range and may be associated with a property of an object. For example a geo tag may be stored in a database and associated with an address property of a person object. In one embodiment the location of a geo tag represents a point of the surface of the Earth and is stored as a latitude longitude geospatial coordinate pair according to the World Geodetic System WGS . However embodiments are not limited to any particular type or format of geospatial coordinates or any particular geodetic system and a geospatial location of a geo tag may be represented using virtually any geographic coordinate system such as a the Universal Transverse Mercator UTM coordinate system or the Military Grid Reference System MGRS .

The optional date range may be used to specify a time period during which the location identified by a geo tag is applicable to or valid for the property associated with the geo tag. Thus the optional date range is useful for capturing a temporal aspect of a geospatial attribute of a property of an object. For example consider an object representing a face to face meeting between two persons the object having a location property whose value is the postal address of the location of the meeting. In this example a geo tag may be stored and associated with the location property of the meeting object. In addition the geotag may specify a date range which indicates the duration of the meeting at the location indicated by the geo tag.

Map image is a digital photograph of a particular area of the surface of the Earth at a particular altitude. The image may be captured by a satellite or aerial photography and imported into a mapping system such as mapping system . The interface may allow the user to select a particular map data source or map tile source from among a plurality of different map data sources all of which provide different sets of data that map the Earth or parts of the Earth. The interface may provide other interface tools not shown that allow a user to locate a map image for a particular surface area of the Earth at a particular altitude. For example the initial map image presented to the user may be of the entire North American continent. The user may then use a pointing device such as a mouse or other input mechanism such as keyboard to zoom toward a particular surface region. For example the user may zoom from an image of the North American continent to an image of the Western United States and then to an image of Northern California to an image of Palo Alto Calif. and finally to an image of the 100 block of Hamilton Avenue in Palo Alto Calif.

Once the user has located the desired map image the user may wish to associate a particular geographic location depicted by the image with an existing property of an existing object stored as structured data in a database. In one embodiment to geo tag a property of an object the user uses a pointing device such as mouse or other suitable input device to identify and select a geographic location on map image . For example the user may direct using an input device a graphical pointer to a particular point on map image and then select the point by clicking a mouse button. Alternatively the user may select the geographic location by depressing a geo tag hot key while the graphical pointer is hovering over the desired geographic location on map image . In one embodiment the hot key is the lowercase t key on a standard QWERTY keyboard. As shown in the particular geographic point selected is within the area of crosshairs overlaid on map image . The crosshairs represent merely one example of how the system may indicate the selected location to a user. The area within the crosshairs is arbitrary and may have any size or shape. Other forms of indication may be used such as various polygons icons pointers or other user interface widgets.

In response to selecting a geographic location geo tag dialog is displayed. Dialog may be used to select an object and a property of an object to associate with the selected geographic location. To select the desired object dialog provides object label control and object type control property type control and property value control . Controls and may be used to select an existing object stored as structured data in a database based on an existing ontology or to create a new object to be stored as structured data in the database and in the ontology.

Object label control allows the user to search for an existing object based on a text label. Text inputted by the user into control may be used by the mapping system to query objects within structured data that have labels that match or contain the inputted text. The results of the query on the structured data may be presented to the user on the interface allowing the user to select one of the results as the desired object. For example shows drop down results panel showing search results resulting from a query against structured data for objects having a label matching the inputted text John Carrino . In the example depicted by no such objects were found as indicated by the No Results message at the bottom of panel . Panel also contains a list of recently used objects that may be selected by the user as the desired object. In one embodiment panel is presented to the user automatically as search results are available. In another embodiment panel is presented on demand in response to user input such as for example in response to the user selecting the drop down icon in object label control .

In one embodiment the mapping system is configured to perform an incremental search as the user inputs text in object label control . As the user types text into object label control possible matches are presented to the user for example on panel of . The immediate feedback of search results allows the user to select a desired object without having to type or input the entire label name into control .

In one embodiment if no object matching the inputted label text is found the user may create a new object with a label name equaling the inputted text. For example control on panel of allows the user to create a new object with the label name John Carrino .

Returning to object type control indicates the current type if any of the object selected in object label control . Object type control also allows the user to specify a new type for the object selected in object label control . In an embodiment the types available for selection in object type control are from an ontology such as the ontology described in PCT international patent publication PCT US2008 064207 A2.

Once an object is selected or a new object is created the user may select a property of the current object to be associated with the selected geographic location . To select a property of the current object the user may search for the property by value using property value control . As with object label control the mapping system may employ an incremental search as text is entered into control . If the desired property value is currently not a property of the current object then the user may create a new property of the current object by entering a new value in property value control . Property type control may be used to select the property type of a new property value entered into control or to select a new property type for an existing property value found using the search feature of control .

Dialog also comprises location information and date range information . Location information and date range 248 comprise the geospatial data of a geo tag that is to be associated with the selected object property.

In the embodiment depicted by location information indicates the geospatial coordinates of the selected geographic location in terms of latitude and longitude. However location information may indicate geospatial coordinates using other geospatial coordinate systems such as the Universal Transverse Mercator UTM coordinate system or the Military Grid Reference System MGRS . The user may use the drop down select box labeled Format to select the desired geospatial coordinate system used to represent the geospatial location of location . When presenting dialog to the user mapping system automatically determines the geographic coordinate e.g. latitude and longitude of the selected location . Thus the user does not need to enter the geospatial coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude of a desired geographic location in order to identify that location to the mapping system. Instead the user may simply select or click on the desired location on the map image to identify geographic location . Alternatively the user may use the hot key approach for identifying a location on a map image as described previously. To automatically determine a geospatial coordinate from a user selected location on a map image the mapping system may employ logic such as mapping logic for translating an image coordinate to a geospatial coordinate.

Date range information may be specified by the user to indicate a timeframe during which the specified location is applicable to the selected object property. For example a date range could be applied to a geo tag of an address property of a person object to indicate that the person had the address of the specified location during the specified timeframe. As another example a date range could be applied to a geo tag of an address of a meeting event object to indicate that that a meeting took place at the specified location for the specified timeframe.

Once an object and a property of the object have been selected the user can geo tag the selected object property by clicking the Tag button on dialog . Clicking button causes the mapping system to store data in a database such as data repository associating the indicated geospatial data and with the selected object property.

In an embodiment the mapping system allows the user to source a geo tagged property. Sourcing refers to associating in a database structured data with one or more data sources. Data sources may include manually entered data electronic documents e mails electronic images or other media files other computer systems and the like.

In an embodiment data sources dialog is displayed in response to the user selecting an active data source link on geo tag dialog . With data sources dialog the user can associate one or more data sources with a new geotagged property. To associate one or more data source with a new geotagged property data source dialog provides available data sources panel and selected data sources panel . With available data sources panel the user may enter text to search for existing data sources. In one embodiment a list of recently used data sources appears in available data sources panel .

Selected data sources panel lists the data sources to be associated with the new geotagged property. The user can add data sources to the selected data sources list by selecting one or more data sources listed in the available data sources panel and then selecting arrow . The user can remove data sources from the selected data sources list by selecting one more data sources listed in the selected data sources panel and then selecting arrow . The user has the operation to create a new data source by selecting button if the desired data source has not yet been entered into the mapping system.

Data source preview pane provides the user with a preview of the currently selected data source in available data sources panel .

Once the user has selected the desired data sources to associate with the new geotagged property the user selects the save button . Clicking button causes the mapping system to store data in a database such as data repository associating selected data sources with the selected object property as indicated by controls and on dialog . The user may repeat the foregoing process any number of times for any number of data sources.

Associating data sources with a geo tagged property provides numerous benefits in comparison to prior approaches. For example in a government application a user could associate multiple intelligence reports about a particular individual with a location that the individual is known to reside have a place of business or have another form of association. In a genealogy application a user could associate multiple images of historical documents with a present or historical location associated with a historical person. In a municipal building and planning application a user could associate construction permit documents construction plans correspondence and other images or documents with a map location indicating a residence or other building. Consequently with the techniques herein a map becomes a sophisticated data analysis tool that may be richly associated with a diverse universe of documents media files or other data.

The interface of comprises map image window map image geo tag dialog search field and search button . The interface may be displayed to a user on the display of a computer system such as display of client .

A process for creating a geo tag for structured data using a gazetteer system proceeds generally as follows. Initially the user enters one or more keywords into search field . The one or more keywords may be textual description of the geographic location the user desires to geo tag. For example in the example embodiment depicted in the user is interested in geo tagging the location of the Eiffel Tower .

After entering one or more keywords in to search field and upon selecting the search button mapping system submits the search keyword s to a gazetteer system. The gazetteer system returns to the mapping system one or more geographic coordinates that correspond to the given search keyword s . In one embodiment upon receiving the geographic coordinate s from the gazetteer system mapping system displays to the user a map image showing all the geographic locations that match the given search keyword s . In another embodiment depending on the number of matches and the geographical distance between the matches the mapping system displays a map image showing only a subset of all the geographic locations that match the given search keyword s . Each geographic coordinate returned from the gazetteer system that is displayed in the map image is flagged with a location identifier flag .

To create a geo tag for structured data for the location identified by flag the user may select a flag for example by double clicking with a pointing device on the graphical area of flag . Selecting a flag causes geo tag dialog to appear. The user may then use dialog to select an object property to associate with the location . In one embodiment the default property value presented in property value control is a string value returned from the gazetteer system in response to submitting the inputted search keywords to the gazetteer system.

According to one embodiment interface allows a user to view the locations of geo tagged events that occurred during a period time. The location of each event is indicated on interface as a superimposed dot on map image . Interface also provides a histogram showing the distribution of the occurrence of the events shown on map image over the period of time. Histogram allows the user to quickly determine when the events shown on map image occurred. For example a user viewing the example interface depicted in could easily determine that most of the events plotted on map image occurred in the spring of 2008 and the early fall of 2004.

According to one embodiment interface allows a user to filter geo tagged events displayed to the user based on the type of event. In one embodiment the type of event may be selected from event type filtering panel . In the example embodiment depicted in the Indirect Attack event type is selected in panel .

In one embodiment selecting an event filtering type in panel causes the mapping system to indicate on map image the locations of the geo tagged events that correspond to the selected event type. For example in the example embodiment depicted in selecting the Indirect Attack event type on panel causes the superimposed dots on map image that correspond to locations of Indirect Attack events to appear as yellow dots. All other events appear as white dots so that the locations of the selected event type can be visually distinguished from all other event types.

In another embodiment instead of showing both the locations of selected event types and non selected event types as superimposed dots on map image selecting an event type in panel causes the mapping system to indicate on map image only the locations of the geo tagged events that correspond to the selected event type. For example instead of showing both the locations of the Indirect Attack event type yellow dots and the locations of all other event types white dots selecting the Indirect Attack event type in panel causes the mapping system to superimpose a dot on map image only for the locations of Indirect Attack events.

Interface also provides a histogram showing the distribution of the occurrence of the events shown on map image over a period of time. The bars of the histogram may be color coded to visually indicate the number of events of a particular type that occurred during a particular time. For example in the example embodiment depicted by the color of the bars on histogram indicate that all Indirect Attack events occurred during 2004 while virtually all other events occurred in early 2008.

According to one embodiment the user can select one or more time windows on the histogram . By selecting one or more time windows the user can command the mapping system to show on map image the locations of only those events that occurred during the selected time window s . In one embodiment to select a time window the user uses a pointing device to select a first time boundary on the histogram timeline drags the pointing device to a second point on the histogram timeline and then releases the pointing device to select a second time boundary. The area between the selected first time boundary and the second time boundary represents the selected time window. In one embodiment the time window is shaded to give a visual indication with respect to a histogram timeline of the start date end date and duration of the time window.

In one embodiment a user can make multiple discontinuous time window selections. To do so the user may depress a designated keyboard key while making second and any subsequent time window selections so as to preserve the existing time window selections. In one embodiment the designated keyboard key is the Alt key or the Ctrl .

In one embodiment as time windows are selected by the user on the histogram the mapping system updates the display of map image . In particular the mapping system updates the display of map image to show the locations of only those events that fall within the selected time window. For example in the example embodiment depicted in only the locations of the events that fall within time windows A and B are designated with superimposed dots on map image .

According to one embodiment the user can select an initial time window on the histogram and then drag a boundary of the initial time window using a pointing device to expand or contract the time window. As the user expands or contracts the time window by dragging a boundary of the time window the mapping system continuously updates the map image to show the locations of the events that fall within the time window as the time window is expanded and contracted. In this way the user can create a geo temporal view of events that give the user a sense of the progression of the location of events over a period of time.

In the example embodiment depicted in initial time window has a start time boundary and an end time boundary . The duration of the time window is visually indicated as a grayed rectangular portion of histogram between boundary and boundary . As shown in the locations of events that fall within time window are shown on map image as a heat map. The colors of the heat map indicate the relative density of events that occurred at a particular location during time window . Cooler colors e.g. blue indicate a relatively few number of events at a particular location and hotter colors e.g. red indicate a relatively larger number of events at a particular location.

In another embodiment instead of creating a geo temporal view of events based on an expanding or contracting time window the user can create a geo temporal view of events based on a sliding time window in which as the user drags time window such that both the left most boundary and the right most boundary slide along with the window. As the user drags the sliding time window the mapping system continuously updates map image to indicate the location of events that occurred within the boundaries of the sliding time window.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. For example certain embodiments have been described with respect to geo tagging locations on the Earth but other embodiments may be applied to geo tagging other kinds of locations or other planetary bodies. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

