---

title: Context-enriched microblog posting
abstract: Disclosed are a system, method, and article of manufacture for context-enriched microblog posting. In one aspect, a message component is provided. A context data related to a context of a computing device used to generate the message component is provided. The message component and the context data are associated. The context data may be communicated to a web browser. The message component may be communicated to the web browser. The message component may be rendered in a format for communication as a short message service (SMS) message that includes a reference to the context data. The message component and the context data may be rendered in a format for communication as a multimedia messaging service (MMS) message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489132&OS=08489132&RS=08489132
owner: Buckyball Mobile Inc.
number: 08489132
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100429
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 12 422 313 filed on Apr. 13 2009 which claims priority from provisional application 61 161 763 filed on Mar. 19 2009. patent application Ser. No. 12 422 313 is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 11 519 600 filed Sep. 11 2006 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 551 935. patent application Ser. No. 11 519 600 is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 11 231 575 filed Sep. 21 2005 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 580 719.

This disclosure relates generally to a communication system and more particularly to a system a method and an article of manufacture of context enriched microblog posting.

A social networking website may include a number of features that allow users to interact. For example a user can post a message to either the user s social networking webpage and or another user s social networking webpage. Example interaction features may include microblogging applications such as status updates tweets wall posts and other types of message posts. Microblog posts can include such formats as plain text hypertext digital video and or digital audio.

Microblog posts can be generated with a mobile device. The post itself can refer to a context of the user and or the mobile device. A user s context can also increase the interest of other users in the microblog post by providing more information. Moreover other users may be interested in certain categories of contexts. Furthermore because the mobile device changes location in some cases the context can be dynamic. Thus associating context data with message postings can augment the user experience of a social networking website.

A system method and article of manufacture of context enriched microblog posting are disclosed. In one aspect a message component is provided. A context data related to a context of a computing device used to generate the message component is provided. The message component and the context data are associated in a microblog post. The context data may be communicated to a web browser. The message component may be communicated to the web browser. The message component may be rendered in a format for communication as a short message service SMS message that includes a reference to the context data. The message component and the context data may be rendered in a format for communication as a multimedia messaging service MMS message.

In another aspect a short message is provided. A location data of a sending device of the short message is provided. The short message is associated with the location data. The short message and the location data are rendered into a format accessible by a web browser. The short message may be posted as a microblog post.

In yet another aspect SMS text is decoded and parsed. A meaning of a SMS text term is determined. A context data of a sending device related to the meaning SMS text term is determined. The SMS text is annotated with a markup language. The context data is annotated with the markup language. The context data and the SMS text are linked together in a web page document.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Disclosed are a system method and article of manufacture of context enriched microblog posting. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes can be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various claims.

In some embodiments communication network s can support protocols used by wireless and cellular phones and personal email devices. Such protocols can include for example GSM GSM plus EDGE CDMA UMTS quadband and other cellular protocols. In another example a long range communications protocol can include Wi Fi and protocols for placing or receiving calls using VOIP or LAN. Furthermore in some embodiments communication network s can include an internet protocol IP based network such as the Internet. In this way the systems and devices of can transfer data between each other as well as with other computing devices e.g. third party servers and databases not shown for the purposes of clarity.

Communication network s operatively couples the various computer systems of such as the mobile devices A N the context data server the social networking server and any other servers that support the mashup applications . In some embodiments mobile devices A N can include mobile computing devices e.g. a smart phone such as the iPhone Motorola Droid Blackberry or Nexus One such as the one described in conjunction with infra. As provided infra mobile devices A N can include smart phone capabilities such as a web browser to access and post messages e.g. microblog posts status updates in application text messages SMS messages MMS messages EMS messages etc and or media content messages such as voice digital images on a social networking website hosted by the social networking server . For example mobile devices A N can support a client application that interacts with a server application supported by the social networking server and or the context data server in order to transmit and receive files that include messages.

In some embodiments mobile devices A N can also include an application for transmitting and receiving files that include context data and or context metadata to the social networking server and or the context data server . Mobile devices A N include context data acquisition and analysis capabilities. In some embodiments mobile devices A N can then communicate the context data to the context data server .

It should be noted that in some example embodiments another type of computing device e.g. a personal computer a tablet computer such as the iPad a portable media player personal digital assistant and or Wi Fi mobile platform can be configured to perform the same functionalities of the mobile devices A N as described supra. Consequently should not be interpreted as being exclusive only to mobile devices with regards to other example embodiments.

Social networking server can provide at least one social networking website. In some embodiments the social networking website can include at least one webpage where message components of microblog posts can be linked with context data. For example a microblog post can include a text with an associated context data such as the location of the mobile device A N when the microblog post was communicated to the social networking server . It should be noted that in some embodiments the functionalities of servers and can be integrated into a single server or set of servers managed by a single entity. Moreover in some embodiments certain functionalities of servers and can be implemented in a cloud computing environment.

Mashup application s can reside on servers and or third party servers operatively coupled with the communication network s . Mashup application s can include a web application that combines data and or functionality from more than one source. An example mashup application includes a mapping website e.g. Google maps that includes representations of geolocation metadata of the sending mobile device. Other mashup applications can be utilized that are relevant to specific types of context data provided and the particular meaning of associated message audio content image content terms and or phrases posted to the social networking website.

More specifically in some embodiments the context data analysis server can include a context data manager . The context data manager can include a context data puller a parser textual analysis module and a context analysis module . Context data puller can acquire context data. For example in some embodiments context data puller can query a mobile device and or third party system for context data relevant to a user and or a sending device. Context data puller can store the context data in a database such as database . Context data puller can interact with a third party system via an applied program interface API such as the geolocation API client to acquire the context data.

For example context data puller can acquire geolocation data. Geolocation can be performed by associating a geographic location with the Internet Protocol IP address MAC address RFID hardware embedded article production number embedded software number such as UUID Exif IPTC XMP or modern steganography invoice Wi Fi connection location or device GPS coordinates or even user disclosed information. Context data puller can perform geolocation operations automatically on a periodic basis e.g. maintain a substantially current geolocation of a particular user via multiple geolocation data vectors and or on a per message basis. For example context data puller can utilize the geolocation API client to look up an IP address on a WHOIS service and retrieve a registrant s physical address. In another example context data puller can query the source of the message for GPS data. It should be noted that in some embodiments the context analysis module can also determine the geolocation of a message source by such methods as analyzing the context data of a message.

Parser can parse a microblog post e.g. perform a set of syntactic analysis operations . Textual analysis module can then analyze the message to determine the meaning of the message components. In some embodiments certain words and or phrases may have been assigned a predetermined meaning. Textual analysis module can then look up the words and or phrases in a table. In some embodiments the meaning of the words and or phrases may include a cultural dependency variable. For example textual analysis module can also access databases that include cultural and or user historical information to determine additional words definitions that depend on the cultural and or historical usage of the word or phrase. In some embodiments a user can preset the meaning of a word and or phrase with an application of the mobile device A N. In some embodiments the context data manager can also include a digital audio analyzer e.g. includes a voice to text utility and or a digital image analyzer not shown .

In some embodiments textual analysis module can utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to determine the meaning of a word and or phrase. Suitable types of pattern recognition algorithms can include neural networks support vector machines decision trees K nearest neighbor Bayesian networks Monte Carlo methods bootstrapping methods boosting methods or any combination thereof.

Context analysis module can analyze context data acquired by the context data puller to associate a relevant context data with a microblog post component according to the meaning of the microblog post component. For example if the microblog post includes a text message that states COME PARTY HERE WITH US . The textual analysis module can determine that the message component HERE meant the geolocation of the sending device. Context data puller can query the sending device for its GPS data with a time stamp that matches the time stamp of the text message. Context analysis module can then provide metadata instructions for a website server to associate the microblog post component with the GPS data. In some embodiments context analysis module can determine the geolocation data of the sending device from the context metadata of the microblog post. In some embodiments the textual analysis module can determine the meaning of the microblog post component WITH US means the set of social networking friends present at the same location. Context data puller can for example then query the mobile devices of the sender s social networking friends to determine the location of each at the time indicated by the time stamp included in the microblog post. Additionally and or alternatively context analysis module can determine the identity of the users of any mobile devices included in the context metadata of the microblog post by the sending mobile device. User identity and or other mobile device data can be stored in database . In some embodiments context analysis module can then generate an instruction for a website server to link the user s identities with the message component WITH US on a webpage. In some embodiments context analysis module can provide the information to the website server without the instruction.

In some embodiments the context analysis module can be set to associate a particular type of context data e.g. geolocation data of a sending device with a microblog post regardless of the meaning of a microblog post component. In some embodiments the context analysis module can also perform such operations as determine the quality of the context data e.g. geolocation accuracy quality of service of context data sources and the like.

The context data manager can interact with a social networking website via the social networking website API client . For example the context data manager can provide information instructions and queries to the social networking website server of via social networking website API client . The context data manager can also receive information such as microblog posts instructions and queries from the social networking website server via the social networking website API client as well. For example in some embodiments the social networking website server can provide a text message to the context data manager . Context data manager can then analyze the microblog post to determine a context data type to associate with a particular microblog post component. Context data manager can then acquire the context data and provide the context data to the social networking website server via the social networking website API client .

In particular in a specific example embodiment context data manager can analyze context information such as context data and short messages e.g. SMS messages . Context data manager can also store e.g. in data compare augment translate and forward the context information and short messages. In the specific example embodiment Parser can consult with both linguistic and cultural databases to generate the intended meaning for the text of a short message. Comparative analyzer can analyze previously established and stored links and patterns from prior like short messages and then associate further specific context information without requiring input from the sender. Comparative analyzer can forward the base short message text to the recipient along with a means e.g. a hyperlink for the recipient to also pull up on request the associated information contextual and comparative in order to allow the recipient to comprehend the intended meaning of the sender s original text. Context associator can associate and makes explicit at the user level the contextual information associated with the short message. In the specific example embodiment context associator can also match and incorporate into a short message previous short messages of a sender and or recipient of the short message. Text analyzer can determine personal and or cultural obligations from the short message text.

In a specific example social networking website server can include an authentication module . Authentication module manages user confirmation operations such as user login. Authentication module can also control access to the resources of the social networking website by placing restrictions on the established identities. Mobile gateway can include standards e.g. REST and WebService that allows smart phone messaging applications to access the web pages hosted by the social networking website server . Moreover in some embodiments social networking website server can utilize the mobile gateway to communicate microblog posts to a mobile device in the form of a message such as an SMS message and the like. Search engine includes functionalities that allow for the search of information including inter alia user identities user account information metadata tag context data metadata tags microblog posts and or context data. Such information can be stored in database . Example search engine methods can include web crawling indexing and web search query. Posting system can manage integrating the messages of microblog posts such as posting operations onto a webpage hosted by the social networking website server . Message management component can manage parameters for microblog posting such as maximum message length message media types and or inclusion of hyperlinks and or hypertext to context data information. Social network API server s enable interaction between the modules and other functionalities of the social networking website server and other applications such mashup applications and those of the context data server .

In some embodiments the social networking website server can also include a context data manager or . Thus in some embodiments the social networking website server can perform the functionalities of the context data server . For example the social networking website server can interact and acquire message and context data from the mobile devices A N.

Context data metadata tags can also be generated by context data tag manager . In some embodiments a context data metadata tag can represent at least one context data associated with the microblog post provided by the context data manager or . In some embodiments a context data metadata tag can include the number sign hash tag as a prefix and a textual description of particular type of context data e.g. Giants stadium with Mike G. SFO Stan s party decreasing barometric pressure during take off etc. . Textual descriptions can be descriptive of the context data e.g. freezing cold . The textual description can be preset by a user and or social networking system administrator according to specified parameters. In some embodiments a description can be limited to context data sometimes with a standardized unit e.g. 35.16533 106.60946 300 mph 30 000 ft. . Social networking website server can utilize context data tag manager to link context data metadata tags to a microblog post. Social networking website server can then place the message into a category according to its context data metadata tags. For example a microblog post can display that it has been tagged with moving over 45 mph and or 85 degrees. A context metadata tag can include a web link leading to an index page listing other microblog posts associated with the context metadata tag. The microblog webpage can include a sidebar listing all the tags in use on that the microblog with each tag leading to an index page In some embodiments connections between microblog posts can be automatically tracked and updated by the context data tag manager . In some embodiments the context data tag manager can also render a visual depiction of context data metadata tags such as a context data metadata tag cloud.

In one embodiment context data tag manager can periodically update a context data metadata tag. For example context data tag manager can periodically instruct the context data manager to query a context data source such as a mobile device and provide updated context data. Context data tag manager can then generate a new context data metadata tag that is associated with a microblog post. Context data metadata tag manager can also store older context data metadata tags in database .

In some example embodiments the social networking website server can include a persistent queue server that uses a memcached protocol e.g. Starling Kestrel to post microblog posts. The social networking website server can also present a web interface using a Ruby on Rails framework.

Portable electronic device can be battery operated and highly portable so as to allow a user to listen to music play games or videos record video or take pictures place and take telephone calls communicate with other people or devices control other devices and any combination thereof. In addition portable electronic device can be sized such that it fits relatively easily into a pocket or hand of the user. By being handheld portable electronic device is relatively small and easily handled and utilized by its user and thus can be taken practically anywhere the user travels.

Portable electronic device can include processor storage user interface display memory input output circuitry communications circuitry web browser and or bus . In some embodiments portable electronic device can include more than one of each component or circuitry shown in but for the sake of clarity and illustration only one of each is shown in . In addition it will be appreciated that the functionality of certain components and circuitry can be combined or omitted and that additional components and circuitry which are not shown in can be included in portable electronic device .

Processor can include for example circuitry for and be configured to perform any function. Processor can be used to run operating system applications media playback applications media editing applications and or any other application. Processor can drive display and can receive user inputs from user interface .

Storage can be for example one or more storage mediums including for example a hard drive flash memory permanent memory such as ROM semipermanent memory such as RAM any other suitable type of storage component or any combination thereof. Storage can store for example media data e.g. music and video files application data e.g. for implementing functions on mobile devices A N firmware preference information data e.g. media playback preferences lifestyle information data e.g. food preferences exercise information data e.g. information obtained by exercise monitoring equipment transaction information data e.g. information such as credit card information wireless connection information data e.g. information that can enable the mobile devices A N to establish a wireless connection subscription information data e.g. information that keeps track of podcasts or television shows or other media a user subscribes to contact information data e.g. telephone numbers and email addresses calendar information data any other suitable data or any combination thereof.

User interface can allow a user to interact with portable electronic device . For example the device for user interface can take a variety of forms such as at least one a button keypad dial a click wheel a touch screen or any combination thereof.

Display can accept and or generate signals for presenting media information textual and or graphic on a display screen such as those discussed above. For example display can include a coder decoder CODEC to convert digital media data into analog signals. Display also can include display driver circuitry and or circuitry for driving display driver s . The display signals can be generated by processor or display . The display signals can provide media information related to media data received from communications circuitry and or any other component of portable electronic device . In some embodiments display as with any other component discussed herein can be integrated with and or externally coupled to portable electronic device .

Memory can include one or more different types of memory that can be used for performing device functions. For example memory can include cache Flash ROM RAM or one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data. Memory can be specifically dedicated to storing firmware. For example memory can be provided for storing 30 firmware for device applications e.g. operating system user interface functions and processor functions .

Input output circuitry can convert and encode decode if necessary data analog signals and other signals e.g. physical contact inputs physical movements analog audio signals etc. into digital data and vice versa. The digital data can be provided to and received from processor storage and memory or any other component of portable electronic device . Although input output circuitry is illustrated in as a single component of portable electronic device a plurality of input output circuitry can be included in portable electronic device . Input output circuitry can be used to interface with any input or output component. For example portable electronic device can include specialized input circuitry associated with input devices such as for example one or more microphones cameras proximity sensors accelerometers ambient light detectors magnetic card readers etc. Portable electronic device can also include specialized output circuitry associated with output devices such as for example one or more speakers etc.

Communications circuitry can permit portable electronic device to communicate with one or more servers or other devices using any suitable communications protocol. For example communications circuitry can support Wi Fi e.g. a . protocol Ethernet Bluetooth which is a trademark owned by Bluetooth Sig Inc. high frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 2.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems infrared TCP IP e.g. any of the protocols used in each of the TCP IP layers HTTP BitTorrent FTP RTP RTSP SSH any other communications protocol or any combination thereof. The portable electronic device can include a sensor. Additionally the portable electronic device includes a client program such as web browser for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web.

Context data application can time stamp acquired context data. Additionally context data application can also encode format context data for communication according to a protocol utilized by the communications network s . Moreover context data application can receive context data inquiries from and provide the context data to a remote application e.g. such as a context data puller . Text message application s provides applications for the composing sending and receiving of text messages.

The portable electronic device further includes at least one sensor . In one embodiment the sensor can be a device that measures detects or senses an attribute of the mobile device s environment and then converts the attribute into a machine readable form that can be utilized by an application such as the context data manager . In some embodiments a sensor can be a device that measures an attribute of a physical quantity and converts the attribute into a user readable or computer processable signal. In certain embodiments a sensor can also measure an attribute of a data environment a computer environment and a user environment in addition to a physical environment. For example in another embodiment a sensor may also be a virtual device that measures an attribute of a virtual environment such as a gaming environment. Example sensors include inter alia global positioning system receivers accelerometers inclinometers position sensors barometers WiFi sensors RFID sensors near filed communication NFC devices gyroscopes pressure sensors pressure gauges time pressure gauges torque sensors ohmmeters thermometers infrared sensors microphones image sensors e.g. digital cameras biosensors e.g. photometric biosensors electrochemical biosensors capacitance sensors radio antennas and or capacitance probes. It should be noted that the other sensor devices other than those listed can also be utilized to sense context data.

Server can also include communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices over a network. Communication connections are one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and or wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. The computer readable media as used herein can include both storage media and communication media according to various example embodiments.

The system also includes one or more server s . In some embodiments the server s can also be hardware circuitry and or software applications e.g. threads processes computing devices . The server s can house threads to perform the methods and operations described in infra for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. communications network the Internet etc that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s can be operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s can be operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the server s . It should be noted that in some embodiments a particular application can function as a client in one context or operation and as a server in another context or operation.

Regarding for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein e.g. in the form of a flow chart are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the subject innovation is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with some embodiments occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with some embodiments.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes can be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices modules etc. described herein can be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium .

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein can be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and can be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

