---

title: Systems and methods to securely collect data over a telephone
abstract: A computer-implemented method to securely collect data over a telephone is described. Telephone communications between a customer and a customer service representative are monitored. At least one tone from a telephone keypad of the customer is detected. The at least one tone represents sensitive data for the customer. An audio output channel directed to the customer service representative is prevented from outputting a detectable tone from the telephone keypad of the customer. An indicator is provided to the customer service representative when detection of the at least one tone occurs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619951&OS=08619951&RS=08619951
owner: Kombea Corporation
number: 08619951
owner_city: Lehi
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101206
---
The use of computer systems and computer related technologies continues to increase at a rapid pace. This increased use of computer systems has influenced the advances made to computer related technologies. Indeed computer systems have increasingly become an integral part of the business world and the activities of individual consumers. Computer systems may be used to carry out several business industry and academic endeavors. The wide spread use of computers has been accelerated by the increased use of computer networks including the Internet.

Many businesses use one or more computer networks to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. The productivity and efficiency of employees often require human and computer interaction. Users of computer technologies continue to demand that the efficiency of these technologies increase. Improving the efficiency of computer technologies is important to anyone that uses and relies on computers.

Computing systems may be used by customer service representatives who collect data from customers over the phone. For example these computing systems may execute applications that capture data communicated from the customer to the customer service representative. In some cases the captured data are sensitive data. For example the data may be credit card numbers account numbers and the like. The applications executing on the computing systems may not capture this sensitive data in a secure manner. As a result the customer service representative may discover or otherwise gain access to this sensitive data. The customer service representative may then fraudulently misuse this data. Customers may be hesitant to provide this data over the phone.

Further once a transaction between a customer and a customer service representative has been executed the customer may later deny that such a transaction was authorized. As a result companies may be required to refund money to the customer associated with the transaction. Current computing systems do not provide a secure manner to collect sensitive data. In addition current systems do not decrease the occurrences of customers denying the authorization for the transaction. As a result benefits may be realized by providing system and methods to securely collect data over a telephone and storing an authorization from the customer for later retrieval.

According to at least one embodiment a computer implemented method to securely collect data over a telephone is described. Telephone communications between a customer and a customer service representative are monitored. At least one tone from a telephone keypad of the customer is detected. The at least one tone represents sensitive data for the customer. An audio output channel directed to the customer service representative is prevented from outputting a detectable tone from the telephone keypad of the customer. An indicator is provided to the customer service representative when detection of the at least one tone occurs.

In one embodiment an authorization request may be transmitted to the customer. A response to the authorization request may be received. In one configuration an authorization recording that includes a summary of a transaction between the customer and the customer service representative may be generated. The authorization recording may be transmitted to the customer.

In one example the at least one tone from the telephone keypad of the customer that represents sensitive data for the customer may be masked. The masked at least one tone from the telephone keypad of the customer may be converted to an unmasked tone. In one embodiment the detected at least one tone may be converted to sensitive data for the customer. The sensitive data for the customer may be transmitted to a secure data storage.

A computing device configured to securely collect data over a telephone is also described. The computing device may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The computing device may further include a channel controlling application configured to monitor telephone communications between a customer and a customer service representative and detect at least one tone from a telephone keypad of the customer. The at least one tone may represent sensitive data for the customer. The channel controlling application may be further configured to prevent an audio output channel directed to the customer service representative from outputting a detectable tone from the telephone keypad of the customer and provide an indicator to the customer service representative when detection of the at least one tone occurs.

A computer program product to securely collect data over a telephone is also described. The computer program product may include a computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions may include code programmed to monitor telephone communications between a customer and a customer service representative and code programmed to detect at least one tone from a telephone keypad of the customer. The at least one tone may represent sensitive data for the customer. The instructions may further include code programmed to prevent an audio output channel directed to the customer service representative from outputting a detectable tone from the telephone keypad of the customer and code programmed to provide an indicator to the customer service representative when detection of the at least one tone occurs.

A multi channel audio patch device configured to securely collect data over a telephone is also described. The device includes a plurality of multiplexers. Each multiplexer includes a plurality of audio input channels and a single audio output channel. The device further includes a microcontroller configured to provide control signals for the plurality of audio input channels and the single audio output channel for each of the plurality of multiplexers. The microcontroller may cancel the single output of a multiplexer directed to a customer service representative when audio tones from a telephone keypad of a customer are detected. One of the plurality of multiplexers may be configured to output an authorization recording to the customer that includes a summary of a transaction between the customer and the customer service representative.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

While the embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

Millions of phone calls take place each day where a caller gives either audibly or via the phone keypad a customer service representative CSR secure data such as credit card details social security numbers account numbers pins answers to personal questions and the like over the phone. This is problematic for several reasons. For example many callers may be unwilling to give this data over the phone negatively impacting customer satisfaction service costs sales accurate data collection and the like. In addition CSRs may be responsible for a large number of stolen identities each year. This may result in financial losses to consumers and companies as well as lost confidence by consumers . In current call center environments CSRs have the ability to capture the secure data provided from callers onto paper personal computer editors recording devices removable media etc. This captured data may then be fraudulently used by the CSR or by those to whom the CSR provides it to. Merchants may be responsible for protecting secure data e.g. credit card numbers social security numbers etc. where non compliance and breaches may result in large penalties and lost confidence by consumers.

In addition to a CSR fraudulently using secure data of callers callers may also participate in fraudulent activities. For example in the case of credit cards a caller may purchase products over the phone provide a CSR with his her credit card number to complete the transaction and then later deny having authorized the charge to the credit card. This may result in merchant losses chargebacks and unrecovered merchandise.

Currently interactive voice response IVR systems may enable callers to provide secure data via their phone keypad. The CSR may be required to transfer the customer to an IVR system to perform this data collection followed by the customer potentially being transferred back to the same or a different CSR after the data have been collected by the IVR system. Information gathered by the IVR system may be sent to the CSR using computer telephony integration CTI generally in the form of automatically pulling up a customer s record based on some piece of secure data. This may require the caller to perform some activities within the IVR system and not remain connected with the CSR the entire conversation.

Current call center environments may include three channel audio patch devices to provide the connections between a customer a CSR and a computing device used by the CSR. For example when a customer is speaking with a CSR the connection path between the customer and the CSR may be active. If the computing device is required to hear play sounds from to the customer the connection between the customer s phone and the computing device of the CSR may be active. For example when the customer provides secure data such as a credit card number via the phone s keypad the connection to the computing device may be active so that the device may hear and capture the tones of the customer s phone keypad. These existing three channel audio patch devices however do not provide separate control of each of the input and output channels. As a result the tones from the customer s phone keypad that represent secure data may be susceptible to interception by the CSR. In other words when the customer provides tones via his her phone s keypad the audio output to the CSR may not be cancelled. As a result the CSR may intercept the secure data provided by the customer.

In one embodiment the present systems and methods may decrease identity theft and credit card fraud saving consumers and companies a large amount of money per year. The present systems and methods also eliminate the viewing unauthorized use or theft of secure data provided over the phone.

In one configuration the present systems and methods may enable a CSR to securely collect a caller s secure data such as credit card numbers social security numbers and account numbers over the phone. In addition the present systems and methods may allow the CSR to remain on the phone with the caller the entire time and the present systems and methods may enable the collection of the secure data without the CSR being able to view hear or otherwise have access to the secure data. In addition the present systems and methods may allow the data to be collected without an application used by the CSR to store the secure data or otherwise visually provide the secure data to the CSR. As a result the present systems and methods may eliminate the viewing unauthorized use and theft of the secure data.

In one embodiment the secure collection of the data may be accomplished by the CSR requesting that the callers enter the secure data via their phone keypad while the CSR remains engaged on the telephone line. The present systems and methods may prevent the CSR or any unauthorized system from gaining access to the secure data. In one configuration the present systems and methods may mask the tones received from the caller s phone keypad so that authorized or unauthorized recordings of these tones cannot be used fraudulently. In addition the present systems and methods may interpret the masked tones and provide an indicator to the CSR that the secure data has been successfully collected. Further the present systems and methods may securely pass the data to authorized systems such as credit card payment gateways. In addition the present systems and methods may securely store the data for any needed or authorized retrieval.

In the case of credit card processing the present systems and methods may add increased security to the transaction. For example the present systems and methods may send a secure authorization code to the caller s phone via short messaging service SMS or computer via email . The CSR may be unable to submit the transaction unless the caller enters the authorization code via their phone keypad in addition to the other secure credit card data and submits the authorization code to the CSR.

In addition just before a credit card transaction is processed the present systems and methods may play a recorded message i.e. authorization request that requests the caller to authorize the charges by stating their name. The present systems and methods may create an audio recording of this authorization i.e. authorization recording . The CSR may be unable to submit a transaction unless the authorization request message is played in full to the caller and the authorization recording has been recorded.

In one embodiment when the transaction is complete the present systems and methods may send an email and or an SMS summary to the caller including the unsecured details of the transaction i.e. amount date last four digits of the credit card etc. and an attached link to the authorization recording. The present systems and methods may securely store the transaction details along with the authorization recording with the ability for merchants third party processors or credit card companies to retrieve for purposes of disputes or fraud investigations.

In one embodiment the computing device may communicate with a multi channel audio patch device . The computing device and the multi channel audio patch device may communicate via a communications link . In one embodiment the communications link may be a universal serial bus USB link. The multi channel audio patch device may include input and output channels for the CSR the computing device and the customer . The details regarding the multi channel audio patch device will be described in further detail below. In one embodiment the computing device may include a channel controlling application that may regulate and control the audio input and output channels of the multi channel audio patch device .

In one embodiment a microcontroller may control which outputs of the various mixers are active. For example the microcontroller may cancel or otherwise mute outputs from the second mixer and the third mixer so that only the output from first mixer is audible. The outputs of the first mixer and the third mixer may be amplified via a first output amplifier and a third output amplifier respectively. In one configuration the second mixer may not be associated with an output amplifier. In other words the output from the second mixer may not be amplified.

In one embodiment the channel controlling application may include a channel selection module . The channel selection module may select output channels from the multi channel audio patch device that are to be cancelled. In other words the channel selection module controls the audio level of each output channel of the multi channel audio patch device . The channel controlling application may also include a converting module . In one embodiment a customer may provide secure data to a CSR via the customer s telephone keypad . The microcontroller may not cancel or mute an output channel to the headset of the CSR . In one embodiment the multi channel audio patch device may mask or otherwise alter the tones received from the customer s telephone . As a result the output channel of the multi channel audio patch device that is directed to the CSR may not output recognizable tones to the CSR . As a result the CSR may not be able to interpret the tones provided via the customer s telephone . The converting module may convert the masked tones back to the correct tones in order to interpret the data represented by the correct tones.

An indicating module may provide visual and audio indicators to the CSR while the customer is providing the secure data via the keypad of the customer s telephone . For example the CSR may interface with the customer relationship management application . The application may include data fields that are populated by the secure data provided by the customer via the keypad of the customer s telephone . The indicating module may populate these data fields with an indicator as the customer provides the secure data via the keypad. The indicator populating the data fields of the application may be a generic symbol that does not reveal the actual data provided by the customer . For example as the customer enters a credit card number via the keypad of the customer telephone the data fields of the application that store credit card numbers may be populated with a generic symbol e.g. an asterisk so that the CSR is unable to obtain access to the actual credit card number. The indicating module may also provide an audible indicator to the CSR such as a masked tone so that the CSR is aware that the customer is entering secure data via the phone s keypad. In one example the microcontroller may not cancel the channel output to the CSR while the customer is entering secure data via the phone s keypad. As a result the CSR is able to continue in communications with the customer while the customer is entering the secure data via the customer s telephone keypad.

In one configuration a generating module may generate an authorization request message to be transmitted via a transmitting module to the customer . The authorization request may request that the customer authorize a pending transaction by providing the customer s name or other authorization code. The generating module may further generate an authorization recording which may indicate to the user the details of a pending transaction. The transmitting module may transmit the authorization recording to the customer. In addition the channel controlling application may store a copy of the authorization recording for later retrieval should the customer deny the authorization of the transaction.

In one embodiment the transmitting module may transmit the secure data provided by the customer to a gateway via a network connection . The gateway may be a handling system for a credit card company. In addition the transmitting module may transmit the secure data provided by the customer to a secure data storage via a network connection . The transmitting module may also transmit the authorization recording that was played to the user to the secure data storage via the network connection . Once a transaction is finalized the transmitting module may transmit a summary of the non secure transaction details to the customer e.g. amount of purchase date of purchase shipping address billing address etc. . In addition the transmitting module may include a link to the stored authorization recording. As a result the customer may access the stored authorization recording in the secure data storage via the link.

In one embodiment telephone communications between a customer and a CSR may be monitored . A determination may be made as to whether a collection of sensitive data is required. If it is determined that a collection of sensitive data is not required the method may return to monitor telephone communications between the customer and the representative. If however it is determined that a collection of sensitive data is required an audio output channel for the representative may be prevented from outputting detectable tones representing the sensitive data. In addition an indicator may be provided to indicate when a detection of a tone representing sensitive data is successful. Further an authorization request may be outputted to the customer. In one configuration a response may be received from the customer to the authorization request. For example the authorization request may include a request for the customer to state his her name. The received response may include the customer stating his her name.

In one configuration an authorization recording may be generated . In one example the recording may be an automated recording that states a summary of the transaction between the customer and the representative. For example the recording may include the statement by the customer of his her name as well as a statement authorizing the transaction to be executed. As an example the transaction may include the customer purchasing an item using a credit card. The authorization recording may include the customer s name as well as a summary detailing the item to be purchased and the last four digits of the customer s credit card. The recording may be transmitted to the customer as well as stored in the secure data storage. As a result if the customer later denies having authorized the transaction to occur a merchant may access the stored authorization recording that indicates the customer did authorize the transaction to take place.

In one embodiment a CSR may provide input to the device and receive output from the device via an agent phone base . The agent phone base may include a microphone which allows the CSR to provide audio input. The agent phone base may also include a headset that provides audio output to the CSR . In one configuration audio input provided to the microphone may be biased and pre amplified via an agent microphone bias and pre amplification component . Output from this component may be input to an agent microphone amplifier . Output from this component may also serve as agent input to an agent mixer .

In one example a customer may provide audio input and receive audio output via a customer phone base . Output from the customer phone base may be referred to as the customer s voice . The customer s voice and the amplified input from the agent s microphone may be applied to a differential amplifier . The output of the amplifier may be referred to as customer input that is input to the agent mixer .

The computing device may include a soundcard to provide audio output from and audio input to the computing device . Audio output from the computing device may be referred to as soundcard output . The soundcard output may serve as computing device input to the agent mixer . As a result the agent mixer may include three input channels e.g. agent input customer input and computing device input . The agent mixer may also provide a single output to the agent phone base . In one example the single output may be provided to a differential amplifier .

As previously explained the computing device may provide instructions to the controller via a communications link such as a USB connection . The instructions may indicate which input channels are to be cancelled and not outputted from the mixer . For example the controller may include three cancellation controls A B C. These controls A B C may control the audio output levels of the three input channels . For example if the customer input includes tones provided by the customer via the phone s keypad the output of the agent mixer which is input to the agent phone base may be muted or cancelled. In one embodiment a cancellation signal is applied to the output of the mixer so as to allow the agent phone base to remain in communications with the customer phone base while the customer is entering data via the customer s phone keypad. The cancellation signal applied to the output of the agent mixer may mask the customer input so that the tones are unrecognizable to the CSR or a customer service management application being used by the CSR . By cancelling the output of the agent mixer when the customer input includes tones that represent sensitive data the CSR is unable to record or otherwise gain access to the secure data provided by the customer .

In one embodiment a CSR may provide input to the device and receive output from the device via an agent phone base . The agent phone base may include a microphone which allows the CSR to provide audio input. The agent phone base may also include a headset that provides audio output to the CSR . In one configuration audio input provided to the microphone may be biased and pre amplified via an agent microphone bias and pre amplification component . Output from this component may be input to an agent microphone amplifier . Output from this component may also serve as agent input to a customer mixer .

In one example a customer may provide audio input and receive audio output via a customer phone base . Output from the customer phone base may be referred to as the customer s voice . The customer s voice and the amplified input from the agent s microphone may be applied to a differential amplifier . The output of the amplifier may be referred to as customer input . In one embodiment customer input may not be input to the customer mixer .

The computing device may include a soundcard to provide audio output from and audio input to the computing device . Audio output from the computing device may be referred to as soundcard output . The soundcard output may serve as computing device input to the customer mixer . As a result the customer mixer may include two input channels e.g. agent input and computing device input . The customer mixer may also provide a single output to the customer phone base .

As previously explained the computing device may provide instructions to the controller via a communications link such as a USB connection . The instructions may indicate which input channels are to be cancelled and not outputted from the mixer . For example the controller may include two cancellation controls A B. These controls A B may control the audio output levels of the input channels . For example if the agent input includes instructions from the CSR to the customer the controller may mute the audio levels of the computing device input so that the customer only hears the instructions from the CSR .

In one embodiment a CSR may provide input to the device and receive output from the device via an agent phone base . The agent phone base may include a microphone which allows the CSR to provide audio input. The agent phone base may also include a headset that provides audio output to the CSR . In one configuration audio input provided to the microphone may be biased and pre amplified via an agent microphone bias and pre amplification component . Output from this component may be input to an agent microphone amplifier . Output from this component may also serve as agent input to an computing device mixer .

In one example a customer may provide audio input and receive audio output via a customer phone base . Output from the customer phone base may be referred to as the customer s voice . The customer s voice and the amplified input from the agent s microphone may be applied to a differential amplifier . The output of the amplifier may be referred to as customer input that is input to the computing device mixer .

The computing device may include a soundcard to provide audio output from and audio input to the computing device . Audio output from the computing device may be referred to as soundcard output . The soundcard output may serve as computing device input to the computing device mixer . As a result the computing device mixer may include three input channels e.g. agent input customer input and computing device input . The computing device mixer may also provide a single output to the computing device e.g. soundcard input . In one example the single output may be provided to a differential amplifier .

As previously explained the computing device may provide instructions to the controller via a communications link such as a USB connection . The instructions may indicate which input channels are to be cancelled and not outputted from the mixer . For example the controller may include three cancellation controls A B C for each input channel. These controls A B C may control the audio output levels of the three input channels .

As explained above during the course of a call between a customer and a customer service representative where sensitive data need to be gathered the present systems and methods may perform this in conjunction with other tools such as a customer relations management CRM application or stand alone. Input fields may not be required in these other applications to accept and store the sensitive data. The user interface of the applications may be greatly simplified.

At the appropriate point during the call the present systems and methods may be invoked. If the supporting application has been enhanced with certain application programming interfaces APIs the supporting application may push key data to the present systems and methods such as name amount of a charge etc. . If no such interface is provided then the present systems and methods may prompt for the required data to perform the transaction required.

In one embodiment the present systems and methods may enable audio to be heard and detected for three participants of the call controlling each using the multi channel audio patch device for six separate audio channels. In one example two channels may be used for the caller i.e. customer one for input from the caller INCALL and a separate for output to the caller OUTCALL . Two channels may be used for the CSR one for input INCSR and a separate for output OUTCSR . Lastly two audio channels may be used for the channel controlling application . The input INPC is used to record the call and the output OUTPC is used to play audio in a selected voice and language prompting the caller to input data. The present systems and methods may control the audio level on each channel as well as which paths are enabled at any point during the call.

When sensitive data needs to be gathered the CSR may instruct the caller how to input the data using the keypad of their telephone. At this point the present systems and methods may put the INPC into a tone detection mode and will alter the audio signal captured in the recording such that no distinguishable tones are present. The OUTCSR channel may either be muted during the input of these tones or a canceling audio signal may be injected onto the OUTCSR channel rendering the tones undetectable e.g. altering on that channel. The latter may be used as it allows the CSR to continue to participate in the conversation and hear any questions the caller might have. The present systems and methods may provide visual and or audio indications to the CSR of successful tone detection by simply displaying an asterisk character for each tone detected. Audible yet altered tones may also be played to provide audio indications of progress. Tones may be detected on the INPC channel by processing the signal of the microphone input of the sound card of the computing device executing the channel controlling application .

The present systems and methods may or may not store the sensitive information. In one configuration the present systems and methods may provide the sensitive data to a gateway or handling system as explained above. In the case of credit card transactions the data may be pushed to a payment gateway to process the transaction and await a response. The response may be returned in the form of a transaction identification and verification code. This may then be returned to the application i.e. CRM used by the CSR and may be the only information that is stored. The response may not represent sensitive data.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example the channel controlling application to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via network modem or interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present systems and methods. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in computer readable medium such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present systems and methods may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block can be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

With reference to computer system modem network interface or some other method can be used to provide connectivity from each of client computer systems and to network . Client systems and are able to access information on storage server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client allows client systems and to access data hosted by storage server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N N or intelligent storage array . depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data but the present systems and methods are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

