---

title: Integrated circuit device with reduced leakage and method therefor
abstract: A method includes preferentially placing fill regions adjacent to transistors of a particular conductivity type, such as p-channel transistors, for a plurality of standard cell instances of a device design. The method also includes evaluating all transistors of the first conductivity type prior to evaluating any transistors of a second conductivity type. The second conductivity type is opposite the first conductivity type. For each transistor being evaluated, it is determined whether a criterion is me. A fill region is placed within a field isolation region adjacent to the transistor if the criterion is met.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898614&OS=08898614&RS=08898614
owner: Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
number: 08898614
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
The present disclosure relates generally to data processing devices and more particularly to the design of data processing devices.

Modern integrated circuit devices can include large numbers of transistors. Consequently design engineers typically make use of design automation tools and associated techniques to increase their design productivity. For example an integrated circuit data processing device can be implemented using logic components known as standard cells that the designer selects from a predefined standard cell library. Automated standard cell placement and signal routing tools can be used to assemble a device design that can include a virtual representation of the physical integrated circuit data processing device by instantiating and interconnecting symbolic representations of the standard cell circuitry at a computer aided design CAD system. The CAD system can include automated processes to verify and improve performance and manufacturability of the integrated circuit data processing device. The virtual representation of the device can be designed and evaluated using the CAD system and can then be used to manufacture the integrated circuit data processing device.

Design automation tools typically operate pursuant to design guidelines or rules directed towards improving the manufacturability reliability and performance of an integrated circuit device. For example conforming to a design rule that governs the density of selected device features can improve planarity of the device s surface following chemical mechanical etching procedures. For example fill regions which do not affect the logical functionality of an integrated circuit data processing device can be added to the field isolation regions of an otherwise completed device design to ensure that a corresponding device is properly planarized during manufacturing. In accordance with a specific embodiment of the disclosure these fill regions can be preferentially placed at the integrated circuit data processing device to reduce sub threshold leakage of selected transistors introduced by adjacent field isolation regions. For example placement of fill regions to reduce the sub threshold leakage of certain device can be preferentially placed near those devices having intrinsically greater sub threshold leakage characteristics in an effort to reduce sub threshold leakage caused by field isolation regions. Furthermore locations to place fill regions and thereby reduce sub threshold leakage can be selected to limit adverse impacts on the timing performance of the device design that can result from the addition of fill regions.

As disclosed in accordance with a specific embodiment herein a fill region can be included at a device design of an integrated circuit data processing device to reduce power dissipation caused by sub threshold leakage of the transistors included at the device. A fill region can be preferentially placed at selected locations based on the type of fill region and based on characteristics of the associated semiconductor process technology. For example fill regions can be placed proximate to transistors whose leakage is reduced by an adjacent fill region while avoiding placement of fill regions near transistors that that are determined to not be favorably affected or that are adversely affected by the placement of a nearby fill region. In an embodiment a fill region is an active region that can be preferentially placed adjacent to an active region of a p channel transistors thereby reducing compressive stress on the transistors such as a compressive stress that would be caused by a field isolation region that would have been otherwise placed at the location of the adjacent region. In another embodiment a fill region corresponds to a void in a nearby shallow trench isolation STI region that is preferentially placed adjacent to the active region of a p channel transistors. The void in the STI region can include a semiconductor material that reduces the amount of STI in the local vicinity of the transistors reducing longitudinal compressive stress on the transistors caused by STI and thereby reducing leakage at the transistors. In still another embodiment a fill region can include a trench region fabricated to selectively provide either tensile or compressive stress to nearby transistor active regions. The type of fill region employed and whether the fill regions are preferentially associated with p channel transistors or n channel transistors is determined by the specific transistor fabrication process technology used to implement the integrated circuit data processing device.

In one embodiment application modules and are hardware or software modules that can each be executed as described herein to perform an associated design function. Characterization module is operable to evaluate a standard cell of a standard cell library to determine electrical and timing characteristics of the standard cell and of the included transistors. For example characterization module can simulate how quickly a signal can propagate from an input to an output of a standard cell. Characterization module can also determine the magnitude of sub threshold leakage associated with each transistor included in a standard cell. Placement module is operable to determine the placement physical location of each standard cell at an integrated circuit device. Timing module is operable to simulate a signal propagation delay associated with each logic path of a device design to verify that the completed integrated circuit device will operate pursuant to its specification. Planarization module is operable to provide information as to the uniformity of various physical features of a device design that is used to implement fill regions at a device design to ensure an integrated circuit device can be manufactured having a proper planarity. Fill module is operable to determine the placement of fill regions following placement of standard cells at a device design. Fill module can preferentially place fill regions at locations of a device design to reduce device power dissipation caused by sub threshold leakage.

A standard cell library includes a plurality of predefined standard cells that can include logic devices and analog devices that are instantiated in a device design to implement an integrated circuit data processing device. A standard cell typically includes multiple models and views viewpoints that are provided to represent various aspects of the standard cell. For example a standard cell can include a functional model that documents the logic operation performed by the standard cell a timing model that provides signal propagation information for the standard cell a circuit netlist that describes the transistor level connectivity of the standard cell and physical views such as a LEF view that describes physical attributes of the standard cell such as the location of physical interface terminals. A device design stored at design file is defined by a plurality of instantiations of standard cells from standard cell library and information identifying the how the standard cell instances are interconnected. For example a counter device can be implemented using one or more instantiations of a specific flip flop and combinatorial logic gates included at a standard cell library.

Design file represents one or more databases used for storing a representation of a device design such as a data processing device and its associated attributes. Design file is stored at memory and can receive design information from design engineers and additional design properties and parameters from associated databases. Design file can include an application programming interface API to permit the CAD application modules to access and manipulate device design attribute. A device design at design file can represent a device using one or more models and views. For example the device design can include a register transfer level RTL model that provides a functional description of the device a gate level representation of the device and a transistor level representation of the device. Design file can include additional device design attributes such as any information that a design engineer and the CAD application modules need to develop and model the device. When the design process is complete the information stored at design file can be used for production of the data processing device. For example design file can include a representation of a data processing device design that includes information relating to physical photo mask features that are provided to an integrated circuit manufacturing facility.

Design system includes application modules that are configured to manipulate device design information. Each of the application modules including modules and can manipulate device design information included at design file to transform the representation of the device in a desired way.

Characterization module is operable to analyze the operation of a standard cell. In one implementation characterization module can analyze the operation of a standard cell based on a transistor level netlist model of the standard cell to simulate the timing behavior of the standard cell and to determine a total sub threshold leakage associated with the standard. For example characterization module can use transistor level circuit modeling procedures to determine a set up time of an input at the standard cell a rate at which an output of the standard cell transitions based on a set of output loads and other operational characteristics of the standard cell. In addition characterization module can determine transistor or standard cell leakage information based on model information or based upon a lookup table such as look up table that can associate leakage information with physical dimensions of a transistor the name of the standard cell or the like. Characterization module can rank each standard cell based on a total amount of sub threshold leakage of the cell based on the cumulative leakage of each included transistor. In an embodiment characterization module can provide two rankings of the standard cells at standard cell library one ranking corresponding to leakage at p channel transistors and another ranking corresponding to the leakage of n channel transistors. Characterization module can determine the operating characteristics of each standard cell at standard cell library based on a contextual assumption as to the manner in which the standard cell will be placed at an integrated circuit. Generally each standard cell is typically characterized as if it were placed in a single context such as a worst case context. Results of the characterization procedure can be stored at standard cell library at memory .

Placement module is operable to determine placement of each standard cell of a device design. Placement module generally places standard cells in rows each row typically having a consistent height corresponding to a respective height of a majority of the standard cells. Placement module also can place a dummy cell adjacent to a portion of standard cells of a device design. Dummy cells generally do not include any transistors and can be placed throughout a device design to provide channels for routing signal interconnects.

Timing module is operable to determine the timing characteristics of a device design including the timing behavior of each synchronous logic path included at the device design. The timing behavior of a logic path includes timing slack wherein a positive timing slack value indicates that the timing performance of a logic path exceeds the performance required by the frequency of an associated clock signal and a negative slack value indicates that the timing performance of the logic path fails to meet the performance required by the frequency the associated clock. A standard cell that is included in a logic path having insufficient positive slack is a timing critical standard cell. Conversely a standard cell satisfies a device design timing criterion if each logic path that includes the standard cell operates with a timing margin greater than a predefined amount. The timing information determined by timing module can be used to further guide placement module in determining the placement location of each standard cell of the device design to improve the timing performance of an associated logic path. Furthermore fill module can use timing slack information associated with each logic path of the device design to determine preferred locations to place fill regions as will be discussed in greater detail herein.

Planarization module is operable to analyze physical features such as diffusion areas of a device design to determine the density of various regions of the device design. Based upon the analysis the planarization module can identify and provide density information for localized portions of the device design that is used by fill module to add fill regions to the device design to ensure proper planarization the manufacturing of the integrated circuit. For example planarization module can determine how many fill regions are to be placed at a portion of a device design based on an analysis of the layout density of active layer features at the portion.

Therefore the planarity of the integrated circuit following chemical mechanical polishing can be improved by selectively controlling the uniformity and density of design features at the localized portions of the device design. For example planarization module can determine whether sufficient active area is present at each localized portion of the device design. Information provided by planarization module is generally expressed in the form of density ratios. For example a selected localized portion of a device design may include an active layer density of fifty percent. The density information provided by planarization module can be compared to design guidelines to determine if sufficient active layer is present in that localized portion of the device design or whether additional fill regions should be added to each portion of the device design to satisfy the density ratio specified by the design guidelines.

Fill module is operable to determine the placement location of fill regions following placement of standard cells at a device design. Fill module can preferentially place fill regions at locations selected to reduce power dissipation caused by sub threshold leakage and based on additional criteria. For example fill module can add fill regions to the device design to satisfy deficiencies in active layer density identified by planarization module by selecting locations for the fill regions that will result in an improvement in sub threshold leakage. Fill module can utilize timing information provided by timing module to limit adverse timing effects that can result if fill regions are located near instantiations of standard cells that are included in timing critical logic paths. Fill module can utilize standard cell leakage information provided by characterization module to select locations that are adjacent to transistors that will most effectively reduce sub threshold leakage. The operation of fill module is described below with reference to .

Standard cell includes two p channel field effect transistor FET devices including transistors and and two n channel FET devices including transistors and . Transistor has a source connected to a voltage reference node labeled VDD a gate connected to an input node labeled IN and a drain connected to a node labeled OUT. Transistor has a source connected to node VDD a gate connected to an input node labeled IN and a drain connected to node OUT. Transistor has a drain connected to node OUT a gate connected to node IN and a source. Transistor has a drain connected to the source of transistor a gate connected to node IN and a source connected to a voltage reference node labeled VSS. Together transistors implement a logic gate providing a NAND logic function a NAND gate . Other standard cells included at standard cell library can provide other Boolean logic functions latching components analog functions and the like. While field effect transistors such as metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs are illustrated at another transistor technology such as junction FET or bipolar can be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore transistors can be fabricated using a variety of process technologies such as bulk silicon silicon on insulator SOI silicon germanium and the like.

During operation of design system characterization module can receive a transistor level netlist of a standard cell such as standard cell and analyze the operation of a particular instance of the standard cell in a device design. For example characterization module can determine the rate at which transistors switch for a given input signal and thus determine a delay and a rate at which the state of a signal at output node OUT transitions in response to a state transition of signals at input nodes IN and IN. In an embodiment characterization module can identify the amount of sub threshold leakage associated with the operation of each of transistors . Sub threshold leakage information associated with a transistor can be determined using a look up table such as lookup table based on the width and length of the transistor the leakage information of the look up table provided for a particular semiconductor fabrication process. Sub threshold leakage information associated with a standard cell can include a single value corresponding to a sum of the leakage of individual transistors included in the cell or leakage associated with p channel devices can be maintained separate from that of n channel devices. In still another embodiment separate leakage values can be determined that are associated with the logic state of the standard cell. For example sub threshold leakage information can be determined based on whether the logic value of node OUT or based on the logic value at nodes IN and IN respectively. Fill module can use the leakage information to identify preferred locations to place fill regions. For example fill module can assign higher priority to locations adjacent to transistors or standard cells having higher leakage characteristics when determining where to place a finite allotment of fill regions.

As previously discussed a layout view such as layout view of the standard cell illustrated at is one of a plurality of design models and views used to represent a data processing device and maintained at design file . A physical representation of a standard cell that can be instantiated at a device design is generally referred to as a LEF layout exchange format view. A LEF view of a standard cell is similar to layout view but includes only particular physical information that is required by physical layout oriented application modules such as placement module . For illustration layout view also includes area identifying the approximate location of p channel transistors and area identifying the approximate location of re channel transistors included at standard cell . Dimension identifies the height of area which corresponds approximately to the vertical dimension of p channel transistors and and corresponds to the channel width of each transistor . Surrounding transistors is field isolation such as STI region .

For the purpose of example it is herein assumed that the STI region and active regions are mutually exclusive of each other. In other words any location that is not designated as active will instead include STI. Therefore a fill region can represent a void in an STI region the void corresponding to an active region that does include STI. For examples described below a fill region corresponds to an active region and may or may not include drain source diffusion. Accordingly fill regions described below can be referred to as diffusion fill regions though one skilled in the art will appreciate that fill regions can also include other physical chemical structures such as trenches and the like which can be preferentially placed to reduce sub threshold leakage at selected nearby transistors. As used herein the term longitudinal used in association with a transistor or a standard cell represents a direction of current flow between the drain and source of the transistor.

The presence of STI can modify the electrical behavior of transistors to which it is adjacent and the effect can be different based on the type of transistor p channel or n channel the process technology the location of the STI the area of the STI region relative to each transistor and the like. For the purpose of illustration the following description illustrates how fill regions defining active regions can be placed adjacent to p channel transistors in a longitudinal direction to reduce longitudinal compressive stress at p channel transistors caused by STI . Arrows illustrate longitudinal compressive stress at transistor . As used herein a p channel transistor is a PMOS p channel metal oxide semiconductor transistor fabricated on a silicon substrate.

For the purpose of the following description it is assumed that longitudinal compressive stress increases sub threshold leakage of p channel transistors and decreases leakage at n channel transistors. Consequently fill module attempts to reduce sub threshold leakage at p channel devices by preferentially placing fill regions in closer proximity to p channel transistors and further from n channel transistors. Accordingly fill module exhausts substantially all opportunities to place a fill region longitudinally adjacent to a p channel transistor before evaluating substantially any locations longitudinally adjacent to n channel transistors. One skilled in the art will appreciate that transistors fabricated using another manufacturing process can respond differently to stress and fill module can determine a preferred location to place filler regions accordingly. For example if compressive longitudinal stress was instead correlated with increased sub threshold leakage at n channel transistors fill regions can instead be placed longitudinally adjacent to selected n channel transistors.

Standard cells are typically organized in a plurality of rows at an integrated circuit data processing device design wherein the height of each standard cell is typically the same as or an integer multiple of the height of the majority of other cells included at the standard cell library. The width of each standard cell can vary depending on the number and size of transistor devices included at the standard cell. Placement module can determine the relative placement of standard cells in part based on the connectivity of each standard cell to other standard cells. Placement module can also determine the relative placement of standard cells based on timing information provided by timing module . For example placement module can place standard cells that are included at a logic path having performance critical timing behavior in close proximity to each other.

Also illustrated at standard cell placement view are regions and indicating the general location of p channel transistors and regions and indicating the general location of n channel transistors at respective standard cells. The orientation of standard cells and dummy cells is typically flipped at alternating rows so that VSS and VDD metallization can be shared by neighboring rows. For example cells at row are oriented with conductor VDD and p channel transistors at the top of row while cells at row are oriented with VDD with p channel transistors and conductor VDD at the bottom of row . The locations of p channel and n channel transistors at each standard cell can vary as can the height of a particular p channel region. For example region occupies a greater percentage of the area of the standard cell than region . Each LEF symbol can include information identifying the general location of p channel and n channel transistors for use by fill module . Standard cell placement view also includes cross section .

As previously described planarization module analyzes successive portions of the device design to determine how many fill regions if any are required in each portion to satisfy active layer density requirements. The size of each portion analyzed by planarization module can vary based on manufacturing guidelines associated with a particular integrated circuit fabrication process. For example planarization module may divide the device design into a plurality of portions wherein each portion is 10 000 square microns and may contain approximately 10 000 individual transistors. Planarization module determines how many fill regions are required at each portion and fill module identifies preferred locations at which to place the fill regions.

In one embodiment fill module is operable to preferentially place fill regions at selected locations of dummy cells based on determining which available location are expected to provide a greatest improvement in sub threshold leakage characteristics of transistors included at nearby standard cells. As such fill module identifies a location for each fill region in a sequential manner selecting the remaining location meeting a particular criterion such as the location proving the greatest expected improvement in sub threshold leakage until the total number of fill regions specified by planarization module for each portion of the device design are placed. Fill module repeats this process for each portion of the device design identified by planarization module .

Fill module can first identify a candidate location to place a fill region by determining which p channel transistor or alternatively which standard cell will most benefit from adding a nearby fill region e.g. which transistor or cell is determined to have the greatest sub threshold leakage in the absence of a nearby fill region. Because a fill region has a potential to decrease the rate at which a nearby p channel transistor switches and thus negatively affect the operating frequency of an associated logic gate fill module does not place a fill region adjacent to a standard cell that is timing critical. Timing information associated with each instantiation of a standard cell at the device design is provided by timing module . Accordingly before fill module places a fill region at a location adjacent to an instance of a standard cell fill module can determine whether the standard cell instance is timing critical. A standard cell instance is determined to be timing critical if the standard cell is included in one or more logic paths that meet a certain timing criterion such as having an insufficient timing margin where timing margin is a predefined minimum amount of positive slack associated with a logic path. For example a standard cell instance can be considered timing critical if any logic path that includes the standard cell instance has less than picoseconds of positive slack. One skilled in the art will appreciate that fill module evaluates each candidate location based on standard cells immediately adjacent to the left and to the right of the candidate location if applicable. For example fill module will not place a fill region at a particular location if a standard cell on either side of that location is timing critical. Similarly fill module will evaluate the merits of a candidate location based on the leakage characteristics of adjacent transistors to either side of that location if applicable.

Only after exhausting opportunities to place fill regions adjacent to p channel transistors will fill module evaluate a location adjacent to an n channel transistor. In particular if a fill region must be placed adjacent to an n channel transistor priority is given to locations associated with n channel transistors that will experience the least amount of increase in sub threshold leakage because of the placement of the fill region. Furthermore fill module places the fill region as far from the n channel transistor or transistors as is possible.

Standard cell placement view illustrates the locations that fill module has selected to place the finite number of fill regions allotted to this particular localized area. For the purpose of example it is assumed that planarization module has determined that no more than 20 fill regions are to be placed in the localized area illustrated at placement view . Furthermore for this example fill module has determined that either or both of standard cells and are associated with timing critical delay paths. Therefore fill module does not place fill regions at dummy cell adjacent to p channel transistors. Instead fill module sequentially evaluates remaining locations that can receive a fill region to determine the best locations to place each fill region until fill module has placed all fill regions associated with this portion of the device design. For example fill module has successively determined that preferred locations to place fill regions are locations indicated by fill region sets . Furthermore fill module has determined that a greater reduction in sub threshold leakage is realized when the available fill regions are first allocated to locations nearest to p channel transistors for example fill regions sets such as and are preferentially placed closer to p channel transistors. Only when there remain additional fill regions to be placed does fill module place fill regions at locations within the STI regions that are further from the p channel transistors such as fill region set . Because suitable locations adjacent to p channel transistors were identified to receive all of the required fill regions it was not necessary for fill module to place any fill regions adjacent to n channel transistors.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that if more than 20 filler cells could be placed at this portion it would be advantageous to do so in the regions between fill region set and and between fill region set and to further reduce stress induced leakage at standard cells and respectively. In addition the size of each portion of the device design for which the preceding process is employed can be significantly larger than that represented by placement view . For example planarization module may specify that a particular number of fill regions are to be placed at a portion of the device design that includes hundreds or thousands of standard cells.

For the purpose of this example it is assumed that planarization module has determined that at least fill regions are required in the localized area illustrated at placement view . Furthermore for this example fill module has determined that either or both of standard cells and as well as standard cell are timing critical because they are included in at least one logic path that fails to meet a desired timing goal with an acceptable margin. Therefore fill module does not place fill regions adjacent to p channel transistors at dummy cell and . Instead fill module sequentially evaluates alternate locations to place fill regions selecting a preferred location on the basis of determining that the location provides the greatest reduction in leakage when compared to other available locations and repeats this process until all fill regions associated with this portion of the device design have been placed. In this example all available locations at dummy cell and that are adjacent to p channel transistors have been populated with fill regions leaving an additional five fill regions that remain to be placed in this particular localized area. Because standard cells and fail to satisfy the necessary timing requirements fill module determines that the only remaining locations available to place fill regions are adjacent to n channel transistors. Because placing a fill region adjacent to an n channel transistor can increase sub threshold leakage at that transistor fill module places fill regions as far as possible from adjacent p channel transistors as illustrated by fill region sets and at . Furthermore locations adjacent to n channel transistors are each selected on the basis of minimizing any increase in sub threshold leakage at nearby n channel transistors resulting from placement of a fill region. For example fill module can utilize leakage information provided by characterization module to identify locations for placing fill regions that are adjacent to standard cells having the least amount of leakage. One skilled in the art will appreciate that even if planarization module indicates that additional fill cell can be placed at this portion that it is not advantageous to do so because additional fill regions at available locations can increase leakage associated with n channel transistors or reduce the switching speeds of the timing critical standard cells.

The flow proceeds to node where timing critical standard cell instances are determined. For example timing module can evaluate each instantiation of each standard cell at a device design and determine if that cell instantiation is included at a logic path having insufficient timing margin. A standard cell instantiation included in a logic path having a positive slack that is less than a predefined amount is determined to be timing critical. The flow proceeds to node where a fill region requirement is determined for each of a plurality of portions of the device design. For example planarization module can divide the physical area occupied by the device design into multiple portions. Planarization module can evaluate each portion individually to determine whether the density of selected physical features such as active layer density satisfy a fabrication density guideline. Planarization module can specify a number of fill regions that are to be added to each portion that fails to satisfy the guideline. The flow proceeds to node where a portion requiring the addition of fill regions is selected.

The flow proceeds to node where a p channel transistor located at he selected portion and having the highest leakage characteristic is identified. For example fill module can evaluate sub threshold leakage information provided by characterization module to determine which p channel transistor included at the portion will most benefit from placement of an adjacent fill region. One skilled in the art will appreciate that only p channel transistors included at standard cells that are also adjacent to a dummy cell need be considered since fill regions are only placed at dummy cells. The flow proceeds to node where it is determined whether the selected p channel transistor is included at a standard cell that is timing critical. For example fill module can evaluate timing information provided by timing module to determine if the instance of the standard cell that includes the identified p channel transistor is included at a logic path having insufficient timing margin. If the standard cell is determined to be a timing critical standard cell the flow returns to node where another p channel transistor is identified. If however the standard cell is not timing critical the flow proceeds to node where a fill region is placed adjacent to the p channel transistor identified at node . For example fill module can place a fill region at a dummy cell adjacent to the identified p channel transistor and place the fill region as close to the p channel transistor as STI design rules permit.

The flow proceeds to decision node where it is determined whether the fill requirement specified at node has been satisfied. If no additional fill regions remain to be placed at the present portion the flow proceeds to decision node where it is determined whether another portion remains to be processed. If however additional fill regions are still required at the present portion the flow proceeds to decision node where it is determined whether there are additional p channel transistors adjacent to which fill regions can be placed. If additional p channel transistors are identified the flow returns to node where a next p channel transistor is selected. If however no locations for placing a fill region adjacent to a p channel are available the flow proceeds to node where fill module identifies a location adjacent to an n channel transistor. In particular fill module selects an n channel transistor having the lowest sub threshold leakage characteristic of the available n channel transistors. The flow proceeds to node where fill module places a fill region adjacent to the n channel transistor identified at node placing the fill region as far as possible from adjacent p channel transistors.

The flow proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether all fill regions required at the present portion have been placed. If additional fill regions have yet to be placed at this particular portion the flow proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether there are additional locations adjacent to n channel transistors at which fill regions can be placed. If further locations are available the flow returns to node where a next n channel transistor is identified based on the same criterion as before. If no locations are identified at which to place the remaining fill regions associated with this portion the flow proceeds to where an error condition is signaled alerting design engineers to the fact that an insufficient number of fill regions have been placed to satisfy design guidelines. In this situation a waiver of the active layer density design rule may be necessary additional dummy cells can be added at this portion to accommodate the placement of additional fill regions or further standard cell placement optimizations may be performed that address the density design rule violation. Returning to node if no fill regions remain to be placed at this portion the flow proceeds to decision block where it is determined if there other portions require fill regions. If there are still portions having an insufficient number of fill regions the flow returns to node where another portion is selected for processing. If fill regions have been added to all portions the flow is complete.

Input output I O adapter is further connected to and controls disk drives printer removable storage devices as well as other standard and proprietary I O devices. User interface adapter can be considered a specialized I O adapter. Adapter is connected to a mouse and a keyboard . In addition user interface adapter may be connected to other devices capable of providing various types of user control such as touch screen devices. Communications interface adapter is connected to a bridge such as is associated with a local or a wide area network and a modem . System bus can be connected to various communication devices to access external information. Multimedia controller will generally include a video graphics controller capable of displaying images upon the monitor as well as providing audio to external components not illustrated .

In a first aspect a method implemented at a computer aided design tool includes preferentially placing fill regions adjacent to transistors of a first conductivity type for a plurality of standard cell instances of a device design to reduce leakage of the plurality of standard cell instances. Preferentially placing the fill regions includes preferentially placing the fill regions adjacent to transistors of a first conductivity type as compared to placing the fill regions adjacent to transistors of a second conductivity type that is opposite the first conductivity type. In one embodiment of the first aspect the transistors of the first conductivity type include p channel transistors. In another embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing fill regions includes identifying an available location within a field isolation region. In still another embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing fill regions includes identifying an available location within a field isolation region.

In another embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing the fill regions includes evaluating substantially all transistors of the first conductivity type for the plurality of standard cells prior to evaluating substantially any transistors of the second conductivity type for the plurality of standard cells and for each transistor being evaluated determining if a criterion is met and placing the fill region adjacent to the transistor being evaluated in response to the criterion being met. In still another embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing the fill region includes placing the fill region a distance from a diffusion region of the adjacent transistor that is substantially equal to a value corresponding to a minimum permissible width of an STI feature. In yet another embodiment of the first aspect determining if a transistor meets the criterion includes determining whether a standard cell that includes the transistor satisfies a timing criterion. In another embodiment of the first aspect determining if the standard cell that includes the transistor satisfies the timing criterion includes determining that each logic path of the device design that includes the standard cell operates with a timing margin greater than a predefined amount. In still another embodiment of the first aspect the plurality of standard cell instances includes more than 1000 instances.

In another embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing fill regions includes placing fill regions after placing substantially all standard cell instances of a device design and wherein the placement locations of the substantially all standard cell instances are not modified by placing fill regions. In another embodiment of the first aspect the plurality of standard cell instances are determined based upon an active layer density analysis performed on each portion. In a further embodiment of the first aspect preferentially placing the fill regions further includes preferentially placing a fill region adjacent to a first transistor of the first conductivity type before placing a fill region adjacent to a second transistor of the first conductivity type based on determining that the first transistor has higher leakage than does the second transistor. Another embodiment of the first aspect includes placing fill regions adjacent to transistors of the second conductivity type only after exhausting opportunities to place fill regions adjacent to transistors of the first conductivity type and only when additional fill regions are required to be placed.

In a second aspect an integrated circuit data processing device includes a plurality of standard cell instances each standard cell instance including a first p channel transistor and a first n channel transistor a plurality of fill regions defined within field isolation regions wherein a majority of the fill regions are in closer physical proximity to p channel transistors than they are to n channel transistors and wherein the fill regions are to reduce leakage at the p channel transistors. In an embodiment of the second aspect each fill region corresponds to a region having an absence of field isolation material. In another embodiment of the second aspect the fill regions are longitudinally adjacent to p transistors of instances of standard cells. In yet another embodiment of the second aspect a majority of fill regions adjacent to p channel transistors are located at a distance from a diffusion region of the corresponding p channel transistor that does not exceed four times the value of a minimum permissible width of an STI feature.

In a third aspect a computer readable medium embodies a software program. The software program includes executable instructions configured to manipulate at least one processor to for a plurality of standard cell instances of a device design place fill regions adjacent to transistors of a first conductivity type to reduce leakage of the transistors of a first conductivity type. Fill regions are placed adjacent to the transistors of the first conductivity type is done preferentially as compared to placing the fill regions adjacent to transistors of a second conductivity type that is opposite the first conductivity type. In an embodiment of the third aspect the software program is further configured to manipulate the at least one processor to evaluate substantially all transistors of the first conductivity type for the plurality of standard cells prior to evaluating substantially any transistor of the second conductivity type for the plurality of standard cells and for each transistor being evaluated determining if a criterion is met and placing the fill region adjacent to the transistor being evaluated in response to the criterion being met. In another embodiment of the third aspect the transistors of the first conductivity type include p channel transistors. In yet another embodiment of the third aspect placing fill regions includes identifying an available location within a field isolation region.

In a fourth aspect a device includes a memory and a fill module coupled to the memory. The fill module is operable to identify transistors of a first conductivity type at instance of standard cells of a device design the standard cells including transistors of a first conductivity type and transistors of a second conductivity type that is opposite the first conductivity type and place fill regions adjacent to transistors of the first conductivity type preferentially as opposed to placing fill regions adjacent to transistors of the second conductivity type at locations that reduce leakage of the transistors of the first conductivity type. In an embodiment of the fourth aspect the device includes a planarization module coupled to the memory the planarization module operable to determine how many fill regions are to be placed at a portion of a device design based on an analysis of the layout density of active layer features at the portion.

In another embodiment of the fourth aspect the device includes a placement module coupled to the memory the placement module operable to place instantiations of a standard cells and dummy cells at the device design. In still another embodiment of the fourth aspect placing fill regions preferentially is further to place fill regions adjacent to transistors having greater leakage before placing fill regions adjacent to transistor having relatively less leakage. In yet another embodiment of the fourth aspect to place fill regions preferentially is further to place fill regions adjacent to transistors based on determining that the transistors are associated with logic paths having a predefined amount of timing margin. In a further embodiment of the fourth aspect the transistor of the first conductivity type is a p channel transistor.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. The specification and drawings should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the disclosure is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof

Note that not all of the activities or elements described above in the general description are required that a portion of a specific activity or device may not be required and that one or more further activities may be performed or elements included in addition to those described. Still further the order in which activities are listed are not necessarily the order in which they are performed.

Also the concepts have been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any feature s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature of any or all the claims.

