---

title: Power management of sensors within a mobile device
abstract: Apparatuses and methods are provided for managing power consumption of a plurality of sensors within a mobile device. A method may include receiving a request from a sensor client regarding a sensor, determining whether the sensor client requested registration/deregistration, controlling a power supply and an operational mode of the sensor, based upon the registration/deregistration request, for reducing power consumption of the sensor, determining whether the sensor client provided a start/stop request for data from the sensor, and controlling power to the sensor, a device/driver configuration, and an operational mode of the sensor, based upon the start/stop request for data, for reducing the power consumption of the sensor. An apparatus may include a processor, a power supply coupled to the processor, a sensor coupled to the power supply, and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions for causing the processor to execute the aforementioned method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08405505&OS=08405505&RS=08405505
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08405505
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100524
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 181 225 entitled SENSORS BASED POWER MANAGEMENT filed May 26 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to power management for mobile devices and more specifically to managing the power consumption of one or more sensors utilized within a mobile device.

Modern mobile devices are rapidly becoming sophisticated sensor platforms in addition to having both communications and media rendering functionality. With the increasing popularity of advanced high speed wireless services that leverage their capabilities the daily usage time of mobile devices will continue to increase. As users become more accustomed to anytime anywhere high speed data network access the battery life of mobile devices may be a driving factor in determining this usage time. Consequently the battery life will likely rise in importance as one of the major selling points for individuals making purchasing decisions.

In addition to improvements in battery technology current efforts to extend battery life focus around various aspects of the design of mobile devices affecting battery consumption. Examples of such efforts can include improvements in the energy efficiency of radio frequency RF components displays and digital electronics including various processors and logic circuits.

In parallel to these endeavors there may be additional room for battery life improvement by managing the power consumption of the sensors utilized within the mobile device. The sensors may include one or more sensors for imaging positioning relative motion determination user proximity ambient light determination user input noise cancellation etc.

Given the increasing number of sensors within the mobile device and the fact that certain types of sensors may draw a relatively significant amount current e.g. CCD image sensors it would be beneficial to implement techniques for managing sensor power consumption and thus extend the operational time of the battery within a mobile device.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are directed to systems and method for managing power consumption of within a mobile device. In one embodiment a method for managing power consumption of a plurality of sensors is provided. The method may include receiving a request from a sensor client regarding a sensor and determining whether the sensor client requested registration deregistration. The method may further include controlling a power supply and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the registration deregistration request for reducing power consumption of the sensor and determining whether the sensor client provided a start stop request for data from the sensor. The method may further include controlling power to the sensor a device driver configuration and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the start stop request for data for reducing the power consumption of the sensor.

In another embodiment an apparatus for managing power consumption of at least one sensor within a mobile device is provided. The apparatus may include a processor a power supply coupled to the processor at least one sensor coupled to the power supply and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may include instructions for causing the processor to receive a request from a sensor client regarding a sensor and determine whether the sensor client requested registration deregistration. The instructions may further cause the processor to control a power supply and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the registration deregistration request for reducing power consumption of the sensor. The instructions may further cause the processor to determine whether the sensor client provided a start stop request for data from the sensor and control power to the sensor a device driver configuration and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the start stop request for data for reducing the power consumption of the sensor.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

As used herein a mobile device may be any type portable computational device having at least one sensor and resources for processing the sensor data into useful information. Controlling a plurality of sensors may be facilitated by an architecture which includes a sensor processor system. The sensor processor system may task and coordinate different sensors based upon multiple requests from applications running on the mobile device. The sensor subsystem may also control the power to each individual sensor to manage their power draw and reduce unnecessary power consumption. Embodiments presented below illustrate the details of the architecture and processes which can be used to reduce power consumption and improve the battery life of the mobile device.

In various embodiments the mobile device may also have networking capabilities and be utilized as an access terminal AT as described below in .

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Further referring to system can contain access terminals such as cellular telephone in communication across an air interface with an access network or radio access network RAN that can connect the access terminal to network equipment providing data connectivity between a packet switched data network e.g. an intranet the Internet and or carrier network and the access terminals . As shown here the access terminal can be a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant a pager which is shown here as a two way text pager or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. Embodiments of the invention can thus be realized on any form of access terminal including a wireless communication portal or having wireless communication capabilities including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof. Further as used herein the terms access terminal wireless device client device mobile terminal and variations thereof may be used interchangeably.

The components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Further referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet . Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal in this embodiment a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed above properly managing power can be desirable feature for mobile devices e.g. cell phones MP3 players wireless mobile access terminals non wireless mobile access terminals etc. . There may be a number of different mechanisms in conventional access terminals for managing power consumption. Some mobile devices may enter a low power mode or sleep mode when no applications are being executed. Other mobile devices may have more sophisticated power management mechanisms whereby the amount of power consumed scales with the processing load of the respective mobile device. However conventional mobile devices do not have the finer grain capability to adjust power modes which may be available within individual sensors residing within the mobile device. Embodiments of the invention are thereby directed to selectively controlling power applied to individual sensors based upon software control.

The sensor processor system A can be maintained in an on state even when the application processor system is in a sleep state. Components within the sensor processor system A can have one or more low power modes. The sensor processor may have various power modes i.e. low power sleep normal etc. and may control the power states of each sensor . . . N A depending upon their power control capability. For example in one low power mode the sensor processor of the sensor processor system A can be in a dormant state but can be configured to wake up when an interrupt from one of the sensors A provides data. In another example a subset of sensors A can be completely powered down in the dormant state by the sensor software subsystem A but one or more sensors e.g. such as an accelerometer can remain active while in a low power consumption state to provide interrupts for waking up the sensor processor system A. The sensor processor system A can also be placed in duty cycle mode such that the sensor processing system A will periodically wake up to check one or more of sensors A. Thus while the sensor processor system A is maintained in an on state this is not intended to imply that each of sensors A are used constantly and or that the sensor process is active continuously. The sensor processor system A may be connected to both the application processor system A and or modem subsystem A and the power management controller A via a connection A which can be a single bus multiple buses and or other types of connection pathways. Additionally in order to control the power states of the sensors A a separate sensor power supply A may be used which can be independently controlled by power management controller A. A separately controlled primary power supply which may also be controlled by power management controller A can provide power to other portions of the sensor processor system A and the application processor system A.

The sensor software subsystem may contain software clients specifically tailored to specific sensor devices to take advantage of their individual power control features. Sensor APIs may be used as an intermediate layer between the clients and the sensor management software. Each of these software modules may be executed one or more processors residing within the sensor processor system A. For example APIs that do not require a high amount of processing resources may be offloaded to the sensor processing system A which may have a lower power processor than the application processor system A. In another example sensor specific APIs e.g. a pedometer API that counts the steps of the user when walking jogging etc. could be offloaded to the sensor processor system A since the sensor processor system A is already monitoring sensors . . . N. Details of the sensor software subsystem A are presented below in . Generally APIs are executed by the application processor system A with the sensor processing system A configured to control monitor for sensor activity and then take appropriate action.

The application processor system A includes the hardware and or software associated with executing APIs on the mobile device and can also include hardware and or software related to wireless communications e.g. modem hardware an antenna etc. allowing the mobile device to serve as an access terminal when configured for wireless connectivity. Accordingly the application processor system A is shown in as including a modem subsystem A which corresponds to the software and or hardware related to wireless connectivity for the access terminal In an embodiment the modem subsystem A can optionally be omitted from the access terminal if the access terminal is not configured for wireless communications.

The power management controller A controls the power consumption of the application processor system A and or the modem subsystem A by further controlling one or more power supplies e.g. sensor power supply A and primary power supply A . For example the power management controller A can selectively turn on or off specific hardware of the application processor system A such as the modem hardware. The power management controller A can also scale the power consumption of specific hardware in the application processor system A either up or down. For example the voltage applied to the application processor can be increased or decreased to manage the power consumption of the application processor system A Also the clock signal applied to hardware in the application processor system A can be increased or decreased to control the speed of execution of the application processor system A which in turn controls its power consumption.

The power management controller A can work in conjunction with the application processor system A and the sensor processor A to facilitate aspects of power management functionality used within the mobile device A. For example the power management controller A can allow the application processor sleep longer by leveraging information provided by the sensor processor system A.

Sensor derived information may be processed and provided by the sensor software subsystem A and then conveyed to the power management controller A via the connection A. However the power management controller A can also override the selected power profile from the sensor processor system such as when the application processor system A informs the power management controller A that its power requirements have changed e.g. a user has requested a shut down or loading of one or more APIs through the application processor system A etc. . Moreover the sensor software subsystem may have the power management controller selectively control the power to individual sensors A through sensor power supply A.

The I2C B connects to the application processor B via a bus B the SLIMbus B may connect to the application processor B via a bus B and the GPIO B connects to the application processor B via a bus B. The bus B is itself connected to a bus B to a power management integrated circuit PMIC B. In an example in the direction from the PMIC B to the application processor B the bus B can carry clock enable signals that are used to control hardware on the application processor B. The PMIC B can also apply dynamic voltage and frequency scaling controls to the application processor B and or the modem subsystem B. Collectively elements buses B B B and B are included in the connection A of and the PMIC B corresponds to the power management controller A of .

The sensor processor system A may individually control the power of each sensor B B B B B etc. The sensor processor system A may also take advantage of different power modes which may be available depending upon the varying modes of sensor operation and or the requirements of the application requesting data from the sensor processor system A through the application processor system A. For example some sensors may have limited power modes e.g. power off and normal operation . Other sensors may allow for finer levels of control which may change various configuration parameters such as the sampling frequency resolution and or accuracy. Examples of different power modes may include low power mode standby normal power high frequency high resolution etc. For different sensors these may be software controlled with power down standby bits. Sensors may be controlled through the micro controller GPIO bus.

In one embodiment power control to individual sensors may be provided by sensor power supply A to supply power for a sensor board in the sensor processor system A. The GPIO bus can be used to switch on board low dropout regulators LDOs . Individual sensors can be put standby mode using the inter integrated circuit I2C interface. In another embodiment digital circuitry on board the sensor processor system A may be powered by the primary power supply A while the sensor power is provided by the sensor power supply A. The power supply to analog circuitry can be turned ON OFF using application processor B GPIOs. In another embodiment the digital circuitry within the sensor processor system A may be powered by the primary power supply A while the sensors are supplied by the sensor power supply A. In one embodiment for example power to the sensors may be may be controlled using voltage regulators that can be independently turned ON OFF using commands from the PMIC B based upon what type of sensor data is being requested.

In the embodiment of the application processor B is illustrated as an ARM11 Scorpio processor although it will be appreciated that the application processor B can correspond to a different type of processor in other embodiments of the invention. The application processor B connects to a memory B via a bus B. The memory B is connected to a modem subsystem via bus B. In an example the modem subsystem B corresponds to an ARM DSP processor and can include Global Positioning System GPS functionality although the modem system B could be configured differently in other embodiments of the invention.

Further referring to the modem subsystem B may be connected to a power amplifier PA and antenna switch B via a bus B which is also connected to the bus B. In an example the bus B can be used to carry signaling related to antenna switch PA reception transmission RX TX detection .

The elements B B B and B of collectively corresponds to the application processor system A of . Thus it will be appreciated that the PMIC B can separately connect to each hardware element of the application processor system A for controlling the power consumption of each hardware element independently. In other words the PMIC B can connect to the application processor B via buses B and B the PMIC B can connect to the modem subsystem via buses B B and B and so on. The sensor clients may interact with the sensors module through the sensors API which are associated with the sensor software subsystems module A described in more detail below.

The sensor manager can coordinate multiple client requests for sensor resources. Such coordination allows for smoother operation of the mobile device in the event for example that the sensor clients provide concurrent and or overlapping requests for sensor data which may create resources conflicts. Such conflicts could arise when clients request include data requests for common sensors or require more supporting resources e.g. memory and or processing cycles than may be available for simultaneous client usage. The sensor manager may organize client requests and allocate resources in a manner which can reduce resource conflicts. In at least one embodiment of the invention as will be described in more detail below the sensor manager can also activate deactivate the power to one or more sensors and or vary sensor operating parameters such that overall power consumption of the mobile device may be reduced.

The sensor clients include various applications that can utilize and exploit sensor data. As shown in the sensor clients are shown as residing in the sensor software subsystem however sensor clients may also reside in other systems including for example the application processor system A. A sensor client typically uses the Sensors API to register with the sensor module and request specific sensor data types. A sensor client may also indicate via the Sensors API the periodicity of the sensor data reporting.

The client manager may handle all client transactions and interact with the sensors API to receive and process client requests and send synchronous or asynchronous responses. The client manager can process the registration requests from the application processor B and then notify the data manager of data requests for specific sensor s . Additionally the client manager may notify the power manager of registration requests. The registration process which may be performed by the client manager allows the sensor manager to allocate the resources of the sensor subsystem to client applications in an orderly manner to avoid resource conflicts. For example the sensor manager may determine priorities and timing in which sensor data and or sensor processing resources can be provided to one or more requesting applications running on the application processor system A.

The data manager may perform data streaming and buffering of the data being provided by one or more sensor devices . The data manager can interact with the device manager to source data from the appropriate sensor driver . The data manager interacts with the power manager for power control on data start stop events and for data streaming rates. Additionally the power manager may control the power of individual sensor to turn ON OFF through the power management IC B.

The sensor discovery module may be notified by the data manager if a new client request for a new data type is received from the application processor B. The sensors discovery module may identify the sensor that can source the requested data and then notify the device manager to initialize and configure the sensor driver corresponding to the appropriate sensor device. The device manager may process device driver transactions including initialization registration configuration etc.

The power manager may interact with the other modules in the sensor manager namely the client manager the data manager and device manager to operate the sensor software subsystem A in a power efficient manner. Client registration and data requests are used by the power manager to determine sensor usage. The power manager may notify the device manager to configure a sensor driver in the appropriate operating mode. Additionally the power manager may control the power supply to the device with the PMIC B using a power management IC driver API. The power management API not shown may reside in the application processor system A. The modules within the sensor manager may interact with the sensor devices through a sensor device interface .

Referring to a client request A generated by the application processor B may be received at the client manager . The client manager may then determine whether the client request includes a registration or a deregistration request A . If so the client database may be updated accordingly based upon the client request A and control may pass to the power manager to execute a registration or deregistration process as exemplified below in the description of . The client database for example can maintain the state of all active clients registered in the system maintains state of outstanding requests and how status should be reported and store information specific to each client which has made a client request.

Alternatively if it is determined that the received client request is not a client registration deregistration request in block A then it may be further determined whether the received client request is a stop start request by the client application A . The start stop request is a request for the appropriate sensor to either provide data or cease providing data. If the request does not include a start stop request then it may be processed by the sensor processor A in a manner unrelated to the power management process and need not be described in detail. Alternatively if it is determined that a start stop request was received in block A then the data manager may determine whether the client request includes a request for a new data type A . A new data type is defined as one which has not been requested since system startup. A separate database may be contained in the data manager which stores the data type and associates it with a particular sensor device. If a new data type is requested the data manager may perform sensor discovery to ascertain the source for the requested new data type A . After sensor discovery A is performed by the data manager or if it is determined that the request does not include a new data type in block A the device manager may then initialize and or configure the device driver for the appropriate sensor s A . The device manager may then update a device database A . The device database may include information associating requested data types with sensors most appropriate to source the data type requested by the client. Here the supported data types may be mapped to the appropriate sensor devices that generate the corresponding data. For example the device database may include parameters such as operating mode sampling rate number of clients requesting sensor data etc. Once the device database is updated the process may proceed to the data collection process detailed in .

If a registration or deregistration request was received by the client manager as described above in block A control may be transferred to the power manager after registration or deregistration have been performed within the client manager . Referring to the power manager may initially check to determine whether registration or deregistration was performed B . If deregistration was performed and the client is no longer being tracked by the client manager i.e. effectively removed from further processing unless it is re registered the power manager may update the sensor sampling rate to the minimum required to support the remaining clients B . The power manager may then determine if whether this is the last client requesting data from a sensor B . If this is not the last client processing by the power manager may end.

On the other hand if it is determined in block B that this is the last client requesting data from a sensor then the power manager may check to determine whether the sensor power is ON B . The check in block B may be performed because a dormant client may result in sensor being in a reduced power state wherein it may not draw any current essentially the sensor may already be in a powered off state . If the sensor power is not ON then the process may the processing performed by the power manager may end. If it is determined in block B that the sensor is on the sensor operating mode may be updated B to ensure for example that the sensor is no longer operating in a high current mode. In another example for block B the operating mode may be changed in the event the sensor is still providing data for a client that has failed to properly inform the sensor to stop providing data before deregistering. Once the operating mode is updated the power manager may then start a sensor power OFF timer B and subsequently monitor this timer to determine if it has expired B . Upon expiration of the sensor power OFF timer the power to the sensor is turned off B . The timer is used to provide a delay so that the sensor is not power cycled unnecessarily. This avoids incurring unnecessary latency and in the case of some sensors the startup current may be larger than the operating current and frequent power cycling could actually use more power than simply leaving the sensor on.

Further referring to if it was determined in block B that registration was performed in the client manager then the power manager may determine if the sensor is powered off B . This check is performed because the sensor upon being newly registered is likely to be powered off before being used for the first time. If on the other hand the sensor is currently powered on the processing performed by the power manager may end. If the sensor is powered off the power manager may make a determination based upon platform specific logic that it is appropriate for the sensor should be powered on B . The power manager may then check the result of block B. If it is determined appropriate in block B to turn on the power the power is turned ON B . Otherwise processing by the power manager may end.

Referring to which illustrates an exemplary process occurring in the power manager when data is being collected by a sensor. Here the power manager may initially determine whether the client request received by the client manager included a request to start sensing sensor data C . If so power to the sensor is checked C and turned on if needed C . The power manager may then determine whether this is the first client for the requested sensor data C . If so the sensor operating mode is updated C to initialize the sensor for the client. If not the sensor sampling rate is updated to a minimum required to support existing clients C . Here the power manager may compute the minimum sampling frequency required or any other associated parameters in order to reduce power consumption.

Returning to block C if the power manager determines that the client is requesting to stop receiving data from a sensor a check may subsequently be determined whether this is the last client for the sensor data C . If it is the last client the sensor operating mode may be updated C to place it in a low current mode to reduce power consumption and then the sensor power OFF timer may be started C . The power manager checks to see whether the sensor power OFF is expired C and if so powers the sensor off C . If the power manger determines in block C that this is not the last client for the sensor data the sensor data sampling rate may be updated to the minimum required to support the outstanding client requests in step C. Because there can be more than one client concurrently interested in obtaining data from a specific sensor the rate at which the sensor device can be sampled can be reduced to a value that can adequately support all existing clients for power optimization.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for managing power consumption of a plurality of sensors within a mobile device. The method may include receiving a request from a sensor client regarding a sensor determining whether the sensor client requested registration deregistration controlling a power supply and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the registration deregistration request for reducing power consumption of the sensor determining whether the sensor client provided a start stop request for data from the sensor and controlling power to the sensor a device driver configuration and an operational mode of the sensor based upon the start stop request for data for reducing the power consumption of the sensor. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

