---

title: Systems and methods for real-time system monitoring and predictive analysis
abstract: A system for providing real-time modeling of an electrical system under management is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component, a virtual system modeling engine, and an analytics engine. The data acquisition component is communicatively connected to a sensor configured to provide real-time measurements of data output from an element of the system. The virtual system modeling engine is configured to generate a predicted data output for the element. The analytics engine is communicatively connected to the data acquisition system and the virtual system modeling engine and is configured to monitor and analyze a difference between the real-time data output and the predicted data output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155908&OS=08155908&RS=08155908
owner: Power Analytics Corporation
number: 08155908
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100413
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 674 994 filed Feb. 14 2007 and whis is issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 826 990 on Nov. 2 2010 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR REAL TIME SYSTEM MONITORING AND PREDICTIVE ANALYSIS which in turn claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 773 560 filed Feb. 14 2006. The disclosures of the above identified applications are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to computer modeling and management of systems and more particularly to computer simulation techniques with real time system monitoring and prediction of electrical system performance.

Computer models of complex systems enable improved system design development and implementation through techniques for off line simulation of the system operation. That is system models can be created that computers can operate in a virtual environment to determine design parameters. All manner of systems can be modeled designed and operated in this way including machinery factories electrical power and distribution systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems and the like. Such simulation techniques have resulted III reduced development costs and superior operation.

Design and production processes have benefited greatly from such computer simulation techniques and such techniques are relatively well developed but such techniques have not been applied in real time e.g. for real time operational monitoring and management. In addition predictive failure analysis techniques do not generally use real time data that reflect actual system operation. Greater efforts at real time operational monitoring and management would provide more accurate and timely suggestions for operational decisions and such techniques applied to failure analysis would provide improved predictions of system problems before they occur. With such improved techniques operational costs could be greatly reduced.

For example mission critical electrical systems e.g. for data centers or nuclear power facilities must be designed to ensure that power is always available. Thus the systems must be as failure proof as possible and many layers of redundancy must be designed in to ensure that there is always a backup in case of a failure. It will be understood that such systems are highly complex a complexity made even greater as a result of the required redundancy. Computer design and modeling programs allow for the design of such systems by allowing a designer to model the system and simulate its operation. Thus the designer can ensure that the system will operate as intended before the facility is constructed.

Once the facility is constructed however the design is typically only referred to when there is a failure. In other words once there is failure the system design is used to trace the failure and take corrective action however because such design are so complex and there are many interdependencies it can be extremely difficult and time consuming to track the failure and all its dependencies and then take corrective action that does not result in other system disturbances.

Moreover changing or upgrading the system can similarly be time consuming and expensive requiring an expert to model the potential change e.g. using the design and modeling program. Unfortunately system interdependencies can be difficult to simulate making even minor changes risky.

In one aspect a system for providing real time modeling of an electrical system under management is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component a virtual system modeling engine and an analytics engine. The data acquisition component is communicatively connected to a sensor configured to provide real time measurements of data output form an element of the system. The virtual system modeling engine is configured to generate a predicted data output for the element. The analytics engine is communicatively connected to the data acquisition system and the virtual system modeling engine and is configured to monitor and analyze a difference between the real time data output and the predicted data output.

In a different aspect a data processing system for real time monitoring and predictive analysis of an electrical system under management is disclosed. The system includes a calibration and synchronization engine and an analysis server. The calibration and synchronization engine is configured to process real time data indicative of the electrical system status and update a virtual model of the electrical system in response to the real time data. The analysis server is configured to compare the processed real time data indicative of the electrical system status with the updated virtual model and produce a real time report of the electrical system status in response to the comparison.

In another aspect a system for providing real time modeling of an electrical system is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component a virtual system modeling engine a virtual system modeling database an analytics engine and a calibration engine communicatively connected to the data acquisition component. The data acquisition component is communicatively connected to a sensor configured to provide real time measurements of data output from an element of the electrical system. The virtual system modeling engine is configured to generate predicted data output for the same element of the electrical system. The virtual system modeling database is configured to store a virtual system model of the electrical system. The analytics engine is communicatively connected of the data acquisition system and the virtual system modeling engine and configured to monitor and determine a difference between the real time data output and the predicted data output.

If the difference exceed an alarm condition value the analytics engine generates a warning message. If the difference is less than the alarm condition value but greater than a set value the analytics engine generates a virtual system model calibration request. If the difference is less than the set value the analytics engine continues monitoring the real time data output and the predictive data output. The calibration engine is communicatively connected to the data acquisition component the virtual system modeling engine the virtual system modeling database and the analytics engine. The calibration engine is further configured to receive the calibration request from the analytics engine and update operational parameters of the virtual system modeling engine and the virtual system model upon receipt of the calibration request.

In still another embodiment a system for providing real time modeling of an electrical system is disclosed. The system includes a data acquisition component a virtual system modeling database an analytics engine and a calibration engine. The data acquisition component is communicatively connected to sensors configured to provide real time data of ambient environmental conditions impacting the electrical system. The virtual system modeling database is configured to store a virtual system model of the electrical system wherein the virtual system model includes preset values for the environmental conditions impacting the electrical system. The analytics engine is communicatively connected to the data acquisition component and the virtual system modeling engine and is configured to monitor and determine a difference between the real time ambient environmental data and the preset environmental values.

If the difference exceeds an alarm condition value the analytics engine generates a warning message. If the difference is less than the alarm condition value but greater than a set value the analytics engine generates a virtual system model calibration request. If the difference is less than the set value the analytics engine continues monitoring the real time ambient environmental data and the preset environmental values. The calibration engine is communicatively connected to the data acquisition component the virtual system modeling database and the analytics engine. The calibration engine is configured to receive the calibration request from the analytics engine and update the preset environmental values upon receipt of the calibration request.

In yet another embodiment a method for real time monitoring and predictive analysis of an electrical system under management is disclosed. Real time data indicative of the electrical system status is processed to enable a virtual model of the electrical system under management to be calibrated and synchronized with the real time data. The virtual model of the electrical system under management is updated in response to the real time data. The processed real time data indicative of the electrical system status is compared with corresponding output values of the updated virtual model to generate a real time report of the system status in response to the comparison.

In a separate aspect a method for managing real time updates to a virtual system model of an electrical system is disclosed. Real time data output from a sensor interfaced with the electrical system is received. The real time data is processed into a defined format. Predicted system data for the electrical system is generated using a virtual system model of the electrical system. A determination is made as to whether a difference between the real time data output and the predicted system data falls between a set value and an alarm condition. If the difference does fall between the set value and alarm condition value a virtual system calibration request is generated.

In a different aspect a method for synchronizing real time system data with a virtual system model of an electrical system is disclosed. A virtual system model request is received. A predicted system output value for the virtual system model is updated with a real time system output value from the electrical system. A difference between a real time sensor measurement from a sensor integrated with the electrical system and a predicted sensor value for the sensor is determined. Operating parameters of the virtual system model is adjusted to minimize the difference.

These and other features aspects and embodiments of the invention are described below in the section entitled Detailed Description. 

Systems and methods for monitoring and predictive analysis of systems in real time are disclosed. It will be clear however that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

As used herein a system denotes a set of components real or abstract comprising a whole where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component within the whole. Examples of systems include machinery factories electrical systems processing plants devices chemical processes biological systems data centers aircraft carriers and the like. An electrical system can designate a power generation and or distribution system that is widely dispersed i.e. power generation transformers and or electrical distribution components distributed geographically throughout a large region or bounded within a particular location e.g. a power plant within a production facility a bounded geographic area on board a ship etc. .

A network application is any application that is stored on an application server connected to a network e.g. local area network wide area network etc. in accordance with any contemporary client server architecture model and can be accessed via the network. In this arrangement the network application programming interface API resides on the application server separate from the client machine. The client interface would typically be a web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc. that is in communication with the network application server via a network connection e.g. HTTP HTTPS RSS etc. .

The sensors are configured to provide output values for system parameters that indicate the operational status and or health of the monitored system . For example in an electrical power generation system the current output or voltage readings for the various components that comprise the power generation system is indicative of the overall health and or operational condition of the system. In one embodiment the sensors are configured to also measure additional data that can affect system operation. For example for an electrical power distribution system the sensor output can include environmental information e.g. temperature humidity etc. which can impact electrical power demand and can also affect the operation and efficiency of the power distribution system itself.

Continuing with in one embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in an analog format. For example electrical power sensor measurements e.g. voltage current etc. are sometimes conveyed in an analog format as the measurements may be continuous in both time and amplitude. In another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in a digital format. For example the same electrical power sensor measurements may be taken in discrete time increments that are not continuous in time or amplitude. In still another embodiment the sensors are configured to output data in either an analog or digital format depending on the sampling requirements of the monitored system .

The sensors can be configured to capture output data at split second intervals to effectuate real time data capture. For example in one embodiment the sensors can be configured to generate hundreds of thousands of data readings per second. It should be appreciated however that the number of data output readings taken by a sensor may be set to any value as long as the operational limits of the sensor and the data processing capabilities of the data acquisition hub are not exceeded.

Still with each sensor is communicatively connected to the data acquisition hub via an analog or digital data connection . The data acquisition hub may be a standalone unit or integrated within the analytics server and can be embodied as a piece of hardware software or some combination thereof. In one embodiment the data connection is a hard wired physical data connection e.g. serial network etc. . For example a serial or parallel cable connection between the sensor and the hub . In another embodiment the data connection is a wireless data connection. For example a radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH infrared or equivalent connection between the sensor and the hub .

The data acquisition hub is configured to communicate real time data from the monitored system to the analytics server using a network connection . In one embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server not shown that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server. The analytics server being also communicatively connected with the Internet via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing a 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format. In practice the network connection utilized is dependent upon the particular requirements of the monitored system .

Data acquisition hub can also be configured to supply warning and alarms signals as well as control signals to monitored system and or sensors and as described in more detail below.

As shown in in one embodiment the analytics server hosts an analytics engine virtual system modeling engine and several databases and . The virtual system modeling engine can e.g. be a computer modeling system such as described above. In this context however the modeling engine can be used to precisely model and mirror the actual electrical system. Analytics engine can be configured to generate predicted data for the monitored system and analyze difference between the predicted data and the real time data received from hub .

The real time data from hub can be passed to a comparison engine which can form part of analytics engine . Comparison engine can be configured to continuously compare the real time data with predicted values generated by simulation engine . Based on the comparison comparison engine can be further configured to determine whether deviations between the real time and the expected values exists and if so to classify the deviation e.g. high marginal low etc. The deviation level can then be communicated to decision engine which can also comprise part of analytics engine .

Decision engine can be configured to look for significant deviations between the predicted values and real time values as received from the comparison engine . If significant deviations are detected decision engine can also be configured to determine whether an alarm condition exists activate the alarm and communicate the alarm to Human Machine Interface HMI for display in real time via e.g. thin client . Decision engine can also be configured to perform root cause analysis for significant deviations in order to determine the interdependencies and identify the parent child failure relationships that may be occurring. In this manner parent alarm conditions are not drowned out by multiple children alarm conditions allowing the user operator to focus on the main problem at least at first.

Thus in one embodiment and alarm condition for the parent can be displayed via HMI along with an indication that processes and equipment dependent on the parent process or equipment are also in alarm condition. This also means that server can maintain a parent child logical relationship between processes and equipment comprising facility . Further the processes can be classified as critical essential non essential etc.

Decision engine can also be configured to determine health and performance levels and indicate these levels for the various processes and equipment via HMI . All of which when combined with the analytic capabilities of analytics engine allows the operator to minimize the risk of catastrophic equipment failure by predicting future failures and providing prompt informative information concerning potential predicted failures before they occur. Avoiding catastrophic failures reduces risk and cost and maximizes facility performance and up time.

Simulation engine operates on complex logical models of facility . These models are continuously and automatically synchronized with the actual facility status based on the real time data provided by hub . In other words the models are updated based on current switch status breaker status e.g. open closed equipment on off status etc. Thus the models are automatically updated based on such status which allows simulation engine to produce predicted data based on the current facility status. This in turn allows accurate and meaningful comparisons of the real time data to the predicted data.

Example models that can be maintained and used by server include power flow models used to calculate expected Kw Kvar power factor values etc. short circuit models used to calculate maximum and minimum available fault currents protection models used to determine proper protection schemes and ensure selective coordination of protective devices power quality models used to determine voltage and current distortions at any point in the network to name just a few. It will be understood that different models can be used depending on the system being modeled.

In certain embodiments hub is configured to supply equipment identification associated with the real time data. This identification can be cross referenced with identifications provided in the models.

In one embodiment if the comparison performed by comparison engine indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the expected value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a calibration request is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . If the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and expected data.

In one embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent directly to the client i.e. user e.g. via HMI for display in real time on a web browser pop up message box e mail or equivalent on the client display panel. In another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. to be displayed for the user by way of a wireless router or equivalent device interfaced with the analytics server . In still another embodiment the alarm or notification message is sent to both the client display and the wireless mobile device. The alarm can be indicative of a need for a repair event or maintenance to be done on the monitored system. It should be noted however that calibration requests should not be allowed if an alarm condition exists to prevent the models form being calibrated to an abnormal state.

Once the calibration is generated by the analytics engine the various operating parameters or conditions of model s can be updated or adjusted to reflect the actual facility configuration. This can include but is not limited to modifying the predicted data output from the simulation engine adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the model s adding subtracting functional elements from model s etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of models can be modified as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by simulation engine .

Referring back to models can be stored in the virtual system model database . As noted a variety of conventional virtual model applications can be used for creating a virtual system model so that a wide variety of systems and system parameters can be modeled. For example in the context of an electrical power distribution system the virtual system model can include components for modeling reliability modeling output voltage stability and modeling power flow. In addition models can include dynamic control logic that permits a user to configure the models by specifying control algorithms and logic blocks in addition to combinations and interconnections of generators governors relays breakers transmission line and the like. The voltage stability parameters can indicate capacity in terms of size supply and distribution and can indicate availability in terms of remaining capacity of the presently configured system. The power flow model can specify voltage frequency and power factor thus representing the health of the system.

All of models can be referred to as a virtual system model. Thus virtual system model database can be configured to store the virtual system model. A duplicate but synchronized copy of the virtual system model can be stored in a virtual simulation model database . This duplicate model can be used for what if simulations. In other words this model can be used to allow a system designer to make hypothetical changes to the facility and test the resulting effect without taking down the facility or costly and time consuming analysis. Such hypothetical can be used to learn failure patterns and signatures as well as to test proposed modifications upgrades additions etc. for the facility. The real time data as well as trending produced by analytics engine can be stored in a real time data acquisition database .

As discussed above the virtual system model is periodically calibrated and synchronized with real time sensor data outputs so that the virtual system model provides data output values that are consistent with the actual real time values received from the sensor output signals. Unlike conventional systems that use virtual system models primarily for system design and implementation purposes i.e. offline simulation and facility planning the virtual system models described herein are updated and calibrated with the real time system operational data to provide better predictive output values. A divergence between the real time sensor output values and the predicted output values generate either an alarm condition for the values in question and or a calibration request.

Continuing with the analytics engine can be configured to implement pattern sequence recognition into a real time decision loop that e.g. is enabled by a new type of machine learning called associative memory or hierarchical temporal memory HTM which is a biological approach to learning and pattern recognition. Associative memory allows storage discovery and retrieval of learned associations between extremely large numbers of attributes in real time. At a basic level an associative memory stores information about how attributes and their respective features occur together. The predictive power of the associative memory technology comes from its ability to interpret and analyze these co occurrences and to produce various metrics. Associative memory is built through experiential learning in which each newly observed state is accumulated in the associative memory as a basis for interpreting future events. Thus by observing normal system operation over time and the normal predicted system operation over time the associative memory is able to learn normal patterns as a basis for identifying non normal behavior and appropriate responses and to associate patterns with particular outcomes contexts or responses. The analytics engine is also better able to understand component mean time to failure rates through observation and system availability characteristics. This technology in combination with the virtual system model can be characterized as a neocortical model of the system under management.

This approach also presents a novel way to digest and comprehend alarms in a manageable and coherent way. The neocortical model could assist in uncovering the patterns and sequencing of alarms to help pinpoint the location of the impending failure its context and even the cause. Typically responding to the alarms is done manually by experts who have gained familiarity with the system through years of experience. However at times the amount of information is so great that an individual cannot respond fast enough or does not have the necessary expertise. An intelligent system like the neocortical system that observes and recommends possible responses could improve the alarm management process by either supporting the existing operator or even managing the system autonomously.

Current simulation approaches for maintaining transient stability involve traditional numerical techniques and typically do not test all possible scenarios. The problem is further complicated as the numbers of components and pathways increase. Through the application of the neocortical model by observing simulations of circuits and by comparing them to actual system responses it may be possible to improve the simulation process thereby improving the overall design of future circuits.

The virtual system model database as well as databases and can be configured to store one or more virtual system models virtual simulation models and real time data values each customized to a particular system being monitored by the analytics server . Thus the analytics server can be utilized to monitor more than one system at a time. As depicted herein the databases and can be hosted on the analytics server and communicatively interfaced with the analytics engine . In other embodiments databases and can be hosted on a separate database server not shown that is communicatively connected to the analytics server in a manner that allows the virtual system modeling engine and analytics engine to access the databases as needed.

Therefore in one embodiment the client can modify the virtual system model stored on the virtual system model database by using a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools that are separate from the other network interfaces. For example dedicated software applications that run in conjunction with the network interface to allow a client to create or modify the virtual system models.

The client may utilize a variety of network interfaces e.g. web browser CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal applications etc. to access configure and modify the sensors e.g. configuration files etc. analytics engine e.g. configuration files analytics logic etc. calibration parameters e.g. configuration files calibration parameters etc. virtual system modeling engine e.g. configuration files simulation parameters etc. and virtual system model of the system under management e.g. virtual system model operating parameters and configuration files . Correspondingly data from those various components of the monitored system can be displayed on a client display panel for viewing by a system administrator or equivalent.

As described above server is configured to synchronize the physical world with the virtual and report e.g. via visual real time display deviations between the two as well as system health alarm conditions predicted failures etc. This is illustrated with the aid of in which the synchronization of the physical world left side and virtual world right side is illustrated. In the physical world sensors produce real time data for the processes and equipment that make up facility . In the virtual world simulations of the virtual system model provide predicted values which are correlated and synchronized with the real time data . The real time data can then be compared to the predicted values so that differences can be detected. The significance of these difference can determine the health status of the system. The health status can then be communicated to the processes and equipment e.g. via alarms and indicators as well as to thin client e.g. via web pages .

Each analytics server i.e. analytics server A analytics server B analytics server n is configured to monitor the sensor output data of its corresponding monitored system and feed that data to the central analytics server . Additionally each of the analytics servers can function as a proxy agent of the central analytics server during the modifying and or adjusting of the operating parameters of the system sensors they monitor. For example analytics server B is configured to be utilized as a proxy to modify the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system B .

Moreover the central analytics server which is communicatively connected to one or more analytics server s can be used to enhance the scalability. For example a central analytics server can be used to monitor multiple electrical power generation facilities i.e. monitored system A can be a power generation facility located in city A while monitored system B is a power generation facility located in city B on an electrical power grid. In this example the number of electrical power generation facilities that can be monitored by central analytics server is limited only by the data processing capacity of the central analytics server . The central analytics server can be configured to enable a client to modify and adjust the operational parameters of any the analytics servers communicatively connected to the central analytics server . Furthermore as discussed above each of the analytics servers are configured to serve as proxies for the central analytics server to enable a client to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with the systems that they respectively monitor. For example the client can use the central analytics server and vice versa to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of analytics server A and utilize the same to modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors interfaced with monitored system A . Additionally each of the analytics servers can be configured to allow a client to modify the virtual system model through a virtual system model development interface using well known modeling tools.

In one embodiment the central analytics server can function to monitor and control a monitored system when its corresponding analytics server is out of operation. For example central analytics server can take over the functionality of analytics server B when the server is out of operation. That is the central analytics server can monitor the data output from monitored system B and modify and or adjust the operating parameters of the sensors that are interfaced with the system .

In one embodiment the network connection is established through a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. In another embodiment the network connection is established through a local area network LAN such as the company intranet. In a separate embodiment the network connection is a hardwired physical connection. For example the data acquisition hub may be communicatively connected via Category 5 CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling to a data server that is communicatively connected via CAT5 fiber optic or equivalent cabling through the Internet and to the analytics server server hosting the analytics engine . In another embodiment the network connection is a wireless network connection e.g. Wi Fi WLAN etc. . For example utilizing a 802.11b g or equivalent transmission format.

In certain embodiments regional analytics servers can be placed between local analytics servers . . . and central analytics server . Further in certain embodiments a disaster recover cite can be included at the central analytics server level.

The analytics server includes a variety of components. In the embodiment the analytics server is implemented in a Web based configuration so that the analytics server includes or communicates with and secure web server for communication with the sensor systems e.g. data acquisition units metering devices sensors etc. and external communication entities e.g. web browser thin client applications etc. . A variety of user views and functions are available to the client such as alarm reports Active X controls equipment views view editor tool custom user interface page and XML parser. It should be appreciated however that these are just examples of a few in a long list of views and functions that the analytics server can deliver to the external communications entities and are not meant to limit the types of views and functions available to the analytics server in any way.

The analytics server also includes an alarm engine and messaging engine for the aforementioned external communications. The alarm engine is configured to work in conjunction with the messaging engine to generate alarm or notification messages in the form of text messages e mails paging etc. in response to the alarm conditions previously described. The analytics server determines alarm conditions based on output data it receives from the various sensor systems through a communications connection e.g. wireless TCP IP Serial etc and simulated output data from a virtual system model of the monitored system processed by the analytics engine . In one embodiment the virtual system model is created by a user through interacting with an external communication entity by specifying the components that comprise the monitored system and by specifying relationships between the components of the monitored system. In another embodiment the virtual system model is automatically generated by the analytics engine as components of the monitored system are brought online and interfaced with the analytics server .

Continuing with a virtual system model database is communicatively connected with the analytics server and is configured to store one or more virtual system model each of which represents a particular monitored system. For example the analytics server can conceivably monitor multiple electrical power generation systems e.g. system A system B system C etc. spread across a wide geographic area e.g. City A City B City C etc. . Therefore the analytics server will utilize a different virtual system model for each of the electrical power generation systems that it monitors. Virtual simulation model database can be configured to store a synchronized duplicate copy of the virtual system model and real time data acquisition database can store the real time and trending data for the system s being monitored.

Thus in operation analytics server can receive real time data for various sensors i.e. components through data acquisition system . As can be seen analytics server can comprise various drivers configured to interface with the various types of sensors etc. comprising data acquisition system . This data represents the real time operational data for the various components. For example the data may indicate that a certain component is operating at a certain voltage level and drawing certain amount of current. This information can then be fed to a modeling engine to generate a virtual system model that is based on the actual real time operational data.

Analytics engine can be configured to compare predicted data based on the virtual system model with real time data received from data acquisition system and to identify any differences. In some instances analytics engine can be configured to identify these differences and then update i.e. calibrate the virtual system model for use in future comparisons. In this manner more accurate comparisons and warnings can be generated.

But in other instances the differences will indicate a failure or the potential for a failure. For example when a component begins to fail the operating parameters will begin to change. This change may be sudden or it may be a progressive change over time. Analytics engine can detect such changes and issue warnings that can allow the changes to be detected before a failure occurs. The analytic engine can be configured to generate warnings that can be communicated via interface .

For example a user can access information from server using thin client . For example reports can be generate and served to thin client via server . These reports can for example comprise schematic or symbolic illustrations of the system being monitored. Status information for each component can be illustrated or communicated for each component. This information can be numerical i.e. the voltage or current level. Or it can be symbolic i.e. green for normal red for failure or warning. In certain embodiments intermediate levels of failure can also be communicated i.e. yellow can be used to indicate operational conditions that project the potential for future failure. It should be noted that this information can be accessed in real time. Moreover via thin client the information can be accessed from anywhere and anytime.

Method moves on to operation where the virtual system model of the monitored system under management is updated in response to the real time data. This may include but is not limited to modifying the simulated data output from the virtual system model adjusting the logic processing parameters utilized by the virtual system modeling engine to simulate the operation of the monitored system adding subtracting functional elements of the virtual system model etc. It should be understood that any operational parameter of the virtual system modeling engine and or the virtual system model may be modified by the calibration engine as long as the resulting modifications can be processed and registered by the virtual system modeling engine.

Method proceeds on to operation where the simulated real time data indicative of the monitored system status is compared with a corresponding virtual system model created at the design stage. The design stage models which may be calibrated and updated based on real time monitored data are used as a basis for the predicted performance of the system. The real time monitored data can then provide the actual performance over time. By comparing the real time data with the predicted performance information differences can be identified and tracked by e.g. the analytics engine . Analytics engine can then track trends determine alarm states etc. and generate a real time report of the system status in response to the comparison. The real time report can relate to capacity and voltage stability of electrical distribution lines of the system under management. Alternatively the real time report may relate to power flow and loading of electrical distribution lines of the system under management or may relate to arc flash energy and arc heat exposure. The real time report may relate to dynamic behavior response and strength of the system under management as a function of system exposure to external events.

In other words the analytics can be used to analyze the comparison and real time data and determine if there is a problem that should be reported and what level the problem may be e.g. low priority high priority critical etc. The analytics can also be used to predict future failures and time to failure etc. In one embodiment reports can be displayed on a conventional web browser e.g. INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX NETSCAPE etc that is rendered on a standard personal computing PC device. In another embodiment the real time report can be rendered on a thin client computing device e.g. CITRIX WINDOWS TERMINAL SERVICES telnet or other equivalent thin client terminal application . In still another embodiment the report can be displayed on a wireless mobile device e.g. BLACKBERRY laptop pager etc. . For example in one embodiment the real time report can include such information as the differential in a particular power parameter i.e. current voltage etc. between the real time measurements and the virtual output data.

Method moves to operation where the real time data is processed into a defined format. This would be a format that can be utilized by the analytics server to analyze or compare the data with the simulated data output from the virtual system model. In one embodiment the data is converted from an analog signal to the a digital signal. In another embodiment the data is converted from a digital signal to an analog signal. It should be understood however that the real time data may be processed into any defined format as long as the analytics engine can utilize the resulting data in a comparison with simulated output data from a virtual system model of the monitored system.

Method continues on to operation where the predicted i.e. simulated data for the monitored system is generated using a virtual system model of the monitored system. As discussed above a virtual system modeling engine utilizes dynamic control logic stored in the virtual system model to generate the predicted output data. The predicted data is supposed to be representative of data that should actually be generated and output from the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where a determination is made as to whether the difference between the real time data output and the predicted system data falls between a set value and an alarm condition value where if the difference falls between the set value and the alarm condition value a virtual system model calibration and a response can be generated. That is if the comparison indicates that the differential between the real time sensor output value and the corresponding virtual model data output value exceeds a Defined Difference Tolerance DDT value i.e. the real time output values of the sensor output do not indicate an alarm condition but below an alarm condition i.e. alarm threshold value a response can be generated by the analytics engine. In one embodiment if the differential exceeds the alarm condition an alarm or notification message is generated by the analytics engine . In another embodiment if the differential is below the DTT value the analytics engine does nothing and continues to monitor the real time data and virtual data. Generally speaking the comparison of the set value and alarm condition is indicative of the functionality of one or more components of the monitored system.

Method proceeds to operation where the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is updated with a real time output value for the monitored system. For example if sensors interfaced with the monitored system outputs a real time current value of A then the predicted system output value for the virtual system model is adjusted to reflect a predicted current value of A.

Method moves on to operation where a difference between the real time sensor value measurement from a sensor integrated with the monitored system and a predicted sensor value for the sensor is determined. As discussed above the analytics engine is configured to receive real time data from sensors interfaced with the monitored system via the data acquisition hub or alternatively directly from the sensors and virtual data from the virtual system modeling engine simulating the data output from a virtual system model of the monitored system. In one embodiment the values are in units of electrical power output i.e. current or voltage from an electrical power generation or transmission system. It should be appreciated however that the values can essentially be any unit type as long as the sensors can be configured to output data in those units or the analytics engine can convert the output data received from the sensors into the desired unit type before performing the comparison.

Method continues on to operation where the operating parameters of the virtual system model is adjusted to minimize the difference. This means that the logic parameters of the virtual system model that a virtual system modeling engine uses to simulate the data output from actual sensors interfaced with the monitored system are adjusted so that the difference between the real time data output and the simulated data output is minimized. Correspondingly this operation will update and adjust any virtual system model output parameters that are functions of the virtual system model sensor values. For example in a power distribution environment output parameters of power load or demand factor might be a function of multiple sensor data values. The operating parameters of the virtual system model that mimic the operation of the sensor will be adjusted to reflect the real time data received from those sensors. In one embodiment authorization from a system administrator is requested prior to the operating parameters of the virtual system model being adjusted. This is to ensure that the system administrator is aware of the changes that are being made to the virtual system model. In one embodiment after the completion of all the various calibration operations a report is generated to provide a summary of all the adjustments that have been made to the virtual system model.

The embodiments described herein can be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

It should also be understood that the embodiments described herein can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations that form part of the embodiments described herein are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The systems and methods described herein can be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

Certain embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although a few embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail herein it should be understood by those of ordinary skill that the present invention may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the present examples and embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details provided therein but may be modified and practiced within the scope of the appended claims.

