---

title: Establishing a remote desktop
abstract: A method includes receiving an IP address via a non-IP protocol communication interface, the IP address associated with an operating system environment established on a computing device; storing the received IP address in memory; responsive to a cessation of communication via the non-IP protocol communication interface, accessing the IP address stored in memory and transmitting the accessed IP address via an IP protocol network interface; and receiving information via the IP protocol network interface, the information issued by the operating system environment established on the computing device associated with the IP address. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08452877&OS=08452877&RS=08452877
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 08452877
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20100428
---
Computer users increasingly have some combination of low power devices and high power devices. For example a low power device may be a netbook or tablet while a high power device may be a notebook a desktop or a server. Some low power devices have been referred to as companion devices. For example a companion device may be quite portable have a relatively long battery life and be capable of logging into and commanding resources of a high power device. In such an example the companion device allows a user to roam freely for hours without having to carry around a heavy high power device or worry about short lived battery supply of a high power device e.g. where the high power device has an ample power supply . As described herein various technologies enhance use of low power and high power devices.

A method includes receiving an IP address via a non IP protocol communication interface the IP address associated with an operating system environment established on a computing device storing the received IP address in memory responsive to a cessation of communication via the non IP protocol communication interface accessing the IP address stored in memory and transmitting the accessed IP address via an IP protocol network interface and receiving information via the IP protocol network interface the information issued by the operating system environment established on the computing device associated with the IP address. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Users increasingly desire to access their full computing power from low power devices such as slates smartbooks or smartphones. Various existing remote desktop solutions are geared toward having full power devices on both ends and can require high bandwidth yet provide limited performance. As described herein various methods can allow for full remote desktop capabilities on a low power device without the performance hit of many conventional solutions. Various examples described herein include a base satellite system. Various methods may be implemented at least in part on a base component a satellite component or both a base component and a satellite component. A satellite component satellite may be a detachable device e.g. where the monitor can be used independently as a slate that is configured to dock to a base component base . In various examples a base has a full function processor while a satellite has a low power system.

Various techniques described herein include IP address mirroring for example where a low power system is informed of an IP address associated with a high power system. For example when a satellite is disconnected from its base a remote desktop application can be activated where the satellite uses a stored IP address associated with its base to establish an IP protocol based connection. In various examples a base may communicate an IP address of a device other than the base to a satellite for example a base may communicate an IP address of a server. In such a routing system a base may maintain knowledge of all devices a base connects to and communicate at least some of this knowledge to a satellite to allow the satellite to route directly or indirectly e.g. via the base to a particular device for a remote desktop session.

A satellite may include a display a power supply e.g. one or more batteries a low power processor network connectivity circuitry and a touch enabled user interface e.g. UI . While a satellite may be configured to browse the Internet play music etc. the user experience is typically different from a user experience on a high power computing device.

In conventional systems a relatively consistent user experience is maintained in a detached mode by installing and running a conventional remote desktop client. In such a conventional system however the user must manually configure and launch the remote desktop client and then provide credentials to unlock a session under the operating system running on the remote base unit.

As described herein various technologies allow for a seamless transition to a remote desktop state. For example a user may be using a base satellite system in a physically connected state disconnect the satellite from the base and seamlessly transition to a remote desktop state. In this example the base may be under control of an operating system e.g. a WINDOWS operating system of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. with an active session and upon disconnection of the satellite from the base the satellite may reconnect to the base via an IP protocol over a network to continue the same session. In such an example the user may see very little or no perceptible interruption of the session. To achieve such a seamless transition the base satellite system is configured to establish a remote desktop session between satellite e.g. display device and the base as soon as the user disconnects the satellite. Such a transition may occur automatically in response to disconnection of the base and the satellite e.g. cessation of communication via a non IP protocol communication interface optionally without any user input e.g. where a disconnect notice serves as a trigger to establish a remote desktop session .

As described herein a method can use one or more operating system application programming interfaces APIs installed on a base to capture user credential information e.g. as entered at time of logon . The method can then communicate this information from the base to a satellite for storage and later use. A base satellite system may include a physical switch an interruptible electrical contact or an interruptible communication interface that triggers the satellite to take certain actions. For example upon detaching a satellite from a base a physical switch may trigger a process that acts to establish communication via an IP protocol to an IP address that was provided to the satellite by the base prior to the detaching upon disconnecting an electrical wire or wires a satellite may respond to the disconnecting by triggering a process that acts to establish communication via an IP protocol to an IP address that was provided to the satellite by the base prior to the disconnecting or upon interrupting a non IP protocol communication interface a satellite may respond to the interrupting by triggering a process that acts to establish communication via an IP protocol to an IP address that was provided to the satellite by the base prior to the interrupting.

In various examples a satellite can respond by launching a remote desktop client application which attempts to communicate with the base unit via an IP protocol. Upon establishing communication the base may issue a challenge to the satellite for credentials. Upon the satellite s receipt of the challenge the satellite may access previously stored credentials e.g. as provided by the base and transmit these to the base. Upon receipt of the credentials by the base an authentication process occurs where if the received credentials are authenticated the base allows a remote session to be established for use by the satellite.

In the foregoing example as a security measure authentication may be used for a finite window of time after the satellite has been detached disconnected or interrupted. After the window of time passes an option may exist for the satellite to respond to a pending challenge by displaying a graphical user interface GUI that allows a user to enter credentials. A base satellite system may include an option that prohibits communication of credentials to a satellite to thereby require entry of credentials upon establishment of communication between the base and the satellite via an IP protocol network.

In various examples a base may provide a satellite with an IP address of a server or other resource. One or more security policies may be associated with IP addresses or resources that dictate the manner by which a satellite can establish a session with an operating system e.g. whether physical or virtual . For example a security policy may allow for communication of credentials to a satellite for continuing an existing session on a base and another security policy may prohibit communication of credentials to a satellite for continuing an existing session on a server e.g. where in the connected state the satellite interacted with the server session via the base . In various examples a session may be an operating system session without virtualization or an operating system session with virtualization e.g. optionally enable by a hypervisor . In various examples multiple sessions may optionally be involved.

In the example of the base includes at least one CPU memory a non IP protocol interface and an IP protocol interface e.g. network interface NI and the satellite includes at least one CPU memory a non IP protocol interface and an IP protocol interface e.g. network interface NI . Where the satellite is a low power device it may include a single processor. For example consider the ATOM family of processors Intel Corporation Santa Clara Calif. a line of ultra low voltage x86 and x86 64 microprocessors designed in 45 nm CMOS and used in various netbooks nettops and Mobile Internet devices MIDs .

As indicated in the system is configured to operate in State S or State S and transition T between S and S. While in some instances a system may be configured to operate in both S and S at the same time as described herein various examples pertain more particularly to operation in S or S and transitions between such states.

In S the base communicates its IP address IP base to the satellite e.g. via a communication interface established using interface components and which may be wired or wireless . Once communicated the system can transition to S. As indicated in S the satellite relies on its own IP address IP satellite to search for IP base via the network . The satellite is shown as being configured with IP base IP server or IP base and IP server stored in the memory and with IP satellite relied upon by the network interface . The base is shown in S and S as being configured optionally with IP server in memory while the network interface relies on IP base. In instances where the satellite establishes communication with the server this may occur directly or indirectly e.g. via the base . Where the satellite communicates directly via the server the base may merely communicate IP server e.g. and not IP base to the satellite . Other variations are possible given the features shown in and considered as part of the description herein e.g. handover from base to server after establishing communication between IP satellite and IP base via network etc. .

The method commences in a communication block where a base satellite system communicate via a non IP protocol. In a monitoring block the satellite monitors one or more IP addresses associated with the base e.g. consider IP base IP server etc. . In a decision block a decision is made as to whether the communication of block has been interrupted. If the decision block decides that communication has not been interrupted the method continues at the monitoring block otherwise the method continues at a search block that searches a network for one or more IP addresses associated with the base. A location block locates at least one of the one or more IP addresses associated with the base which allows for communication via an IP protocol. A verification block follows that may involve a resource issuing a challenge a satellite responding to the challenge and the resource or other resource such as an authentication server verifying trust. A control block may then be established that allows the satellite to operate in a different state S and control resources at one or more IP addresses.

With respect to graphics various arrangements are possible for a system. For example a satellite may optionally include a graphics card or GPU e.g. consider NVIDIA technologies configured to execute commands render graphics etc. In various graphical rendering arrangements a satellite may act as a server e.g. a GPU based OpenGL server and a base as a client e.g. CPU based OpenGL client . In a particular example a satellite includes a GPU configured as an OpenGL server and a base or other resource includes a CPU configured as an OpenGL client where OpenGL state changes texture and vertex data and rendering commands are communicated from an application to the OpenGL client and where the client transforms these items and then forwards them to the GPU based OpenGL server on the satellite. In turn the satellite renders the graphics to a display.

In the example of the satellite includes display circuitry e.g. for rendering of the graphics a power supply an operating system and a remote communication module . Further the memory is shown as storing a satellite IP address the one or more IP address associated with the base and the account information the latter two typically being communicated from the base to the satellite e.g. via a non IP protocol interface enabled by components and which may be assumed to not have various security concerns commonly associated with an IP protocol network interface . As described herein where account information is communicated to a satellite it is preferred that such communication occur in a secure manner for example in a manner that does not rely on a network such as the Internet noting that for purposes of authentication the satellite will normally communicate stored account information via a network such as the Internet e.g. optionally using one or more security techniques consider SSH etc. .

As indicated in the base communicates the one or more IP addresses the account information and graphics to the satellite where the one or more IP addresses and the account information may be stored in the memory for example to enable transitioning from S to S.

With respect to the remote communication modules and these may include one or more sets of instructions. For example the modules and may include instructions for technologies such as a Remote Desktop Protocol e.g. RDP Microsoft Corporation Real time Multimedia Collaboration Technology e.g. RMCT Lenovo Corporation a Virtual Network Computing e.g. VNC etc.

RDP is based on and an extension of the ITU T.120 family of protocols. On a server end RDP uses its own video driver to render display output by constructing the rendering information into network packets by using RDP protocol and sending them over the network to a client end. On the client end RDP receives rendering data and interprets the packets into corresponding graphics device interface GDI API calls. For an input path client mouse and keyboard events e.g. also consider touch screen or other input mechanisms are redirected from the client end to the server end. On the server end RDP uses its own on screen keyboard and mouse driver to receive these keyboard and mouse events.

In a Remote Desktop Services environment an application runs entirely on the Remote Desktop Session Host RD Session Host server. In general the client performs no local processing of application software the server transmits graphics to the client and the client transmits the user input back to the server.

With respect to VNC a VNC server is a program that executes on a device for example that shares its screen to allow a client to take control of it. A VNC client or viewer is a program that watches controls and interacts with the server noting that the client controls the server. The VNC protocol RFB is based on communication of graphic primitives from server to client e.g. Put a rectangle of pixel data at the specified X Y position and event messages from client to server. VNC may be tunneled over an SSH or VPN connection which can add an extra security layer e.g. with stronger encryption .

As described herein a computing system may include a first portion that includes a processor memory an IP protocol network interface and a non IP protocol communication interface a second portion that includes a processor memory an IP protocol network interface and a non IP protocol communication interface circuitry configured to establish a communication link via the non IP protocol communication interfaces for communication between the first portion and the second portion and circuitry configured to establish in response to termination of the communication link a network connection via the IP network interface of the first portion the network connection enabling the first portion to use an executing operating system. In the foregoing system the operating system may execute on the second portion e.g. a base or on a remote server noting that in either instance hypervisor technologies may be involved. As shown in various examples the first portion e.g. a satellite may include a display. The second portion may include a dock configured for docking the first portion e.g. to dock a satellite display tablet portion to a base portion . In various examples memory of a first portion may be configured to store an IP address associated with a computing device that executes an operating system and configured to store logon information for accessing and using the operating system. Various examples may include a trusted platform module for example configured to enable a first portion to use an executing operating system.

The method commences in a login block where a user logs in to a system using credentials e.g. a user name and a password biometric information etc. . A storage block stores the credentials in a satellite of the system. A generation block generates tunnel key pairs. Key generation may be enabled wholly or in part by any of a variety of technologies e.g. SSH associated technologies a trusted platform module Cygwin PuTTY etc. . Another storage block stores the keys as appropriate on the satellite and a base of the system e.g. as dictated by authentication technique . As shown in the example of at this point the system may be transitioned from S to S for example per an interruption block .

Upon occurrence of an interruption events may occur on both a base and a satellite of a system. For example according to the method of an open block executes on the base and an open block executes on the satellite. Where the satellite seeks to connect with the base an authentication block executes on the base using its stored tunnel key and an execution block executes on the satellite using its stored tunnel key. According to the example of an authentication decision block executes on the base and an authentication decision block executes on the satellite.

As to the base if the decision block decides that the tunnel key authentication has not occurred then a timeout decision block follows which may cause the method to continue at the open block No timeout or to terminate at an end block Yes timeout . If the decision block decides that tunnel key authentication occurred then a secure communication tunnel is established between the base and the satellite and the method continues at an authentication block that acts to authenticate user credentials as stored on the satellite transmitted by the satellite and received by the base via the established secure communication tunnel.

As to the satellite a parallel process depends on the authentication decision block . If the tunnel key authentication does not occur the method terminates at an end block however if tunnel key authentication does occur then a secure communication tunnel is established between the base and the satellite and the method continues at a remote login block where user credentials stored on the satellite are sent from the satellite to the base via the established secure communication tunnel. In the example of where the credentials are authenticated per block a remote desktop session is established via blocks and where the remote desktop session may rely on communication via the secure tunnel as established using the generated key pair see e.g. block . While the example of mentions tunnel keys see e.g. TLS protocols one or more other security technologies may be implemented to establish secure communication.

As described herein a method such as the method may include receiving logon information via a non IP protocol communication interface where the logon information is associated with an operating system environment established on a computing device. Such a method can allow for a relatively seamless transition to a remote session see e.g. transition from S to S of . Such a method may include storing received logon information in memory and acting in response to receipt of information via an IP protocol network interface to access the logon information stored in memory and to transmit the accessed logon information via the IP protocol network interface.

As described herein cessation of communication may corresponds to termination of a wired connection violation of a proximity condition termination of a communication link that relies on a non IP protocol communication interface etc. As to the proximity condition consider a system configuration where IP or other information indicates that a satellite is a certain distance from a base or other network device. Upon violation of a proximity condition e.g. distance a remote session may be terminated e.g. for purposes of security . Other conditions that may trigger termination may involve factors such as number of intervening nodes a specific intervening node address a range of addresses bandwidth error rate etc.

The cluster includes satellites to that operate cooperatively with a base . In the example of the base is in communication with a security device such as a biometric fingerprint reader. The base may also include or have access to a trusted platform module TPM e.g. for security key generation etc. . As shown the base may include or have access to memory where the memory stores information such as one or more IP addresses biometric information instructions for one or more multiuser operating systems and instructions for one or more hypervisors .

The method includes an entry block for entry of biometric data e.g. a fingerprint or retina scan via the device . An association block associates the entered biometric data with an IP address for example according to a table or other data structure stored in the memory . A storage block stores the IP address in memory of a satellite e.g. one of to . An optional storage block may also act to store biometric or other security information in the satellite. An establishment block establishes an IP based connection between the satellite and a device at the stored IP address. An optional establishment block may act to establish trust with the device at the IP address using the stored security information. While the foregoing example refers to a single satellite authority may be granted to a user for checking out two or more satellites e.g. for a shared session side by side display etc. .

The satellite cluster and the method may be implemented for example in a workplace where workers enter biometric information and select an indicated satellite e.g. as indicated by a display being lit up or a displayed graphic or message where the satellite establishes communication to an operating system environment executing on a base or a server. A base or a server may be optionally configured to execute a hypervisor which may be configured to support multiple operating system environments optionally accessible by multiple users e.g. user accounts . As described herein each worker may have an account associated with an operating system environment on a server accessible by a satellite as indicated in the example system methods devices etc. of e.g. or elsewhere herein .

With respect to the command interface this interface may be in the form of instructions stored in memory and executable by a computing device. The interface may be implemented as one or more application programming interfaces APIs . In the example of the interface includes a communication module configured for communicating one or more IP addresses e.g. an exposed interface callable by a satellite a communication module configured for communicating logon information or other security information an network connection acceptance module callable for purposes of deciding if or how to accept a network connection a logon information acceptance module callable for purposes of accepting authenticating etc. logon information and a permission module configured for granting permission to use one or more resources e.g. OS hardware networked application etc. .

As described herein one or more interfaces may be configured to communicate an IP address the IP address associated with a computing device executing an operating system to communicate logon information the logon information associated with the operating system to accept a network connection based at least in part on the IP address to receive logon information via the network connection and responsive to authentication of the logon information to provide permission to use the operating system. Such an interface may be implemented as one or more APIs e.g. based on processor executable instructions stored in one or more computer readable media . In a particular example an operating system is configured to expose one or more application programming interfaces via a non IP protocol communication interface the one or more APIs configured to communicate an IP address and to communicate logon information e.g. from a base to a satellite .

With respect to a hypervisor a hypervisor may be or include features of the XEN hypervisor XENSOURCE LLC LTD Palo Alto Calif. . In a XEN system the XEN hypervisor is typically the lowest and most privileged layer. Above this layer one or more guest operating systems can be supported which the hypervisor schedules across the one or more physical CPUs. In XEN terminology the first guest operating system is referred to as domain 0 dom0 . In a conventional XEN system the dom0 OS is booted automatically when the hypervisor boots and given special management privileges and direct access to all physical hardware by default. With respect to operating systems a WINDOWS OS a LINUX OS an APPLE OS or other OS may be used by a computing platform e.g. satellite base server etc. .

As described herein various acts steps etc. can be implemented as instructions stored in one or more computer readable media. For example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable e.g. processor executable instructions to instruct a device.

The term circuit or circuitry is used in the summary description and or claims. As is well known in the art the term circuitry includes all levels of available integration e.g. from discrete logic circuits to the highest level of circuit integration such as VLSI and includes programmable logic components programmed to perform the functions of an embodiment as well as general purpose or special purpose processors programmed with instructions to perform those functions.

While various examples circuits or circuitry have been discussed depicts a block diagram of an illustrative computer system . The system may be a desktop computer system such as one of the ThinkCentre or ThinkPad series of personal computers sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. or a workstation computer such as the ThinkStation which are sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. however as apparent from the description herein a satellite a base a server or other machine may include other features or only some of the features of the system .

As shown in the system includes a so called chipset . A chipset refers to a group of integrated circuits or chips that are designed to work together. Chipsets are usually marketed as a single product e.g. consider chipsets marketed under the brands INTEL AMD etc. .

In the example of the chipset has a particular architecture which may vary to some extent depending on brand or manufacturer. The architecture of the chipset includes a core and memory control group and an I O controller hub that exchange information e.g. data signals commands etc. via for example a direct management interface or direct media interface DMI or a link controller . In the example of the DMI is a chip to chip interface sometimes referred to as being a link between a northbridge and a southbridge .

The core and memory control group include one or more processors e.g. single core or multi core and a memory controller hub that exchange information via a front side bus FSB . As described herein various components of the core and memory control group may be integrated onto a single processor die for example to make a chip that supplants the conventional northbridge style architecture.

The memory controller hub interfaces with memory . For example the memory controller hub may provide support for DDR SDRAM memory e.g. DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc. . In general the memory is a type of random access memory RAM . It is often referred to as system memory .

The memory controller hub further includes a low voltage differential signaling interface LVDS . The LVDS may be a so called LVDS Display Interface LDI for support of a display device e.g. a CRT a flat panel a projector etc. . A block includes some examples of technologies that may be supported via the LVDS interface e.g. serial digital video HDMI DVI display port . The memory controller hub also includes one or more PCI express interfaces PCI E for example for support of discrete graphics . Discrete graphics using a PCI E interface has become an alternative approach to an accelerated graphics port AGP . For example the memory controller hub may include a 16 lane x16 PCI E port for an external PCI E based graphics card. A system may include AGP or PCI E for support of graphics.

The I O hub controller includes a variety of interfaces. The example of includes a SATA interface one or more PCI E interfaces optionally one or more legacy PCI interfaces one or more USB interfaces a LAN interface more generally a network interface a general purpose I O interface GPIO a low pin count LPC interface a power management interface a clock generator interface an audio interface e.g. for speakers a total cost of operation TCO interface a system management bus interface e.g. a multi master serial computer bus interface and a serial peripheral flash memory controller interface SPI Flash which in the example of includes BIOS and boot code . With respect to network connections the I O hub controller may include integrated gigabit Ethernet controller lines multiplexed with a PCI E interface port. Other network features may operate independent of a PCI E interface.

The interfaces of the I O hub controller provide for communication with various devices networks etc. For example the SATA interface provides for reading writing or reading and writing information on one or more drives such as HDDs SDDs or a combination thereof. The I O hub controller may also include an advanced host controller interface AHCI to support one or more drives . The PCI E interface allows for wireless connections to devices networks etc. The USB interface provides for input devices such as keyboards KB mice and various other devices e.g. cameras phones storage media players etc. .

In the example of the LPC interface provides for use of one or more ASICs a trusted platform module TPM a super I O a firmware hub BIOS support as well as various types of memory such as ROM Flash and non volatile RAM NVRAM . With respect to the TPM this module may be in the form of a chip that can be used to authenticate software and hardware devices. For example a TPM may be capable of performing platform authentication and may be used to verify that a system or component seeking access is the expected system or component.

The system upon power on may be configured to execute boot code for the BIOS as stored within the SPI Flash and thereafter processes data under the control of one or more operating systems and application software e.g. stored in system memory . An operating system may be stored in any of a variety of locations and accessed for example according to instructions of the BIOS . Again as described herein a satellite a base a server or other machine may include fewer or more features than shown in the system of .

Although various examples of methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

