---

title: Composition for semiconductive rubber, crosslinked rubber product, and semiconductive parts
abstract: A composition for a semiconductive rubber, comprising an epichlorohydrin-based rubber (a), an ethylene oxide-modified (meth)acrylate (b), and at least one kind of a crosslinking agent (c) selected from the group consisting of a sulfur-based crosslinking agent, a quinoxaline-based crosslinking agent and a triazine-based crosslinking agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08735503&OS=08735503&RS=08735503
owner: Daiso Co., Ltd.
number: 08735503
owner_city: Osaka-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101014
---
This application is the U.S. National Phase under 35. U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT JP2010 068060 filed Oct. 14 2010 which claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2009 239729 filed Oct. 16 2009 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2009 239789 filed Oct. 16 2009. The International Application was published under PCT Article 21 2 in a language other than English.

The present invention relates to a semiconductive composition having low hardness and exhibiting low resistant ionic conductivity which is used in electrophotographic equipment applications and the like and a crosslinked rubber product obtained by vulcanizing the same composition.

An epichlorohydrin based rubber material has widely been used as parts of office automation apparatuses by making use of specific ionic conductivity thereof. Further a reduction in resistance and a reduction in hardness have been required to parts of office automation apparatus. Electrophotographic equipment applications will be described below as an example of a semiconductive member. However applications of the present invention are not limited only to electrophotographic equipment applications.

In image forming apparatuses such as electrophotographic equipments a direct contact charging system has recently employed as a means to charge a surface of a body to be charged of a photoreceptor a dielectric or the like. In the direct contact charging system a surface of a body to be charged is charged by directly bringing a charged member applied with voltage into contact with the surface of a body to be charged. The charged member to be generally used is a roller in which a semiconductive elastic body layer is formed on an axis of a mandrel made of metal or the like.

It have hitherto been known as a method for forming a semiconductive elastic body layer a method in which an electronic conducting semiconductive composition having semiconductivity by blending conductive particles such as carbon black and a crosslinked rubber product are used and a method in which a polar rubber per se having semiconductivity such as an epichlorohydrin rubber or a nitrilebutadiene rubber is used see Patent Document 1 .

In the method in which a semiconductive composition using a polar rubber having semiconductivity and a crosslinked rubber product are used there is known as a technique to cope with a reduction in hardness a method in which a liquid rubber is blended so as to reduce hardness see Patent Document 2 .

However in the method in which an electronic conducting semiconductive crosslinked rubber product having semiconductivity by blending conductive particles such as carbon black is used it is difficult to control the hardness of a rubber composition. Also in the method in which a polar rubber per se having semiconductivity is used there are requirements for further reductions in resistance and hardness. Thus a problem to be solved is that it is difficult to reconcile both requirements and design freedom is low.

An object of the present invention is to reconcile low hardness and low resistance by blending an ion conductive polar rubber with various additives.

The present inventors have intensively studied about the above problems and found that it is possible to reconcile low hardness and low resistance of a crosslinked rubber product by blending an epichlorohydrin based rubber with an ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate and vulcanizing the obtained blend using at least one kind of a crosslinking agent selected from the group consisting of a sulfur based crosslinking agent a quinoxaline based crosslinking agent and a triazine based crosslinking agent. Thus the present invention has been completed.

A composition with uniform low resistance value and low hardness can be obtained in an epichlorohydrin based rubber by crosslinking the composition of the present invention.

The semiconductive rubber composition of the present invention refer to a composition before vulcanization and contains at least an epichlorohydrin based rubber a an ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate b and at least one kind of a crosslinking agent c selected from the group consisting of a sulfur based crosslinking agent a quinoxaline based crosslinking agent and a triazine based crosslinking agent.

The epichlorohydrin based rubber a in the present invention refers to an epichlorohydrin homopolymer or other epoxides copolymerizable with or epichlorohydrin for example a copolymer with ethylene oxide propylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether or the like. Examples thereof include an epichlorohydrin homopolymer an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide copolymer an epichlorohydrin propylene oxide copolymer an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide propylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tetracopolymer and the like. There is no particular limitation on the molecular weight of these homopolymers or copolymers and the molecular weight is usually from about 30 to 150 in terms of Mooney viscosity ML1 4 100 C. .

When the sulfur based crosslinking agent is used as a crosslinking agent it is necessary to use an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer which is crosslinkable with the sulfur based crosslinking agent. As long as a large influence is not exerted on crosslinking physical properties an epichlorohydrin homopolymer and an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide dicopolymer may be blended.

With respect to a copolymerization ratio of the epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer for example the content of epichlorohydrin is from 4 mol to 94 mol preferably from 9 mol to 74 mol and more preferably from 9 to 64 mol the content of ethylene oxide is from 5 mol to 95 mol preferably from 25 mol to 90 mol and more preferably from 35 mol to 90 mol and the content of allyl glycidyl ether is from 1 mol to 8 mol preferably from 1 mol to 7 mol and more preferably from 1 mol to 6 mol .

On the other hand when the quinoxaline based crosslinking agent and or the triazine based crosslinking agent is are used as the crosslinking agent the epichlorohydrin based rubber a is preferably an epichlorohydrin homopolymer an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide copolymer or an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer more preferably an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide copolymer or an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer. These polymers may be a blend.

In case of an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide copolymer with respect to the copolymerization ratio thereof the content of epichlorohydrin is from 5 mol to 95 mol preferably from 10 mol to 75 mol and more preferably from 10 to 65 mol and the content of ethylene oxide is from 5 mol to 95 mol preferably from 25 mol to 90 mol and more preferably from 35 mol to 90 mol .

In case of an epichlorohydrin ethylene oxide allyl glycidyl ether tercopolymer with respect to the copolymerization ratio thereof for example the content of epichlorohydrin is from 4 mol to 94 mol preferably from 9 mol to 74 mol and more preferably from 9 to 64 mol the content of ethylene oxide is from 5 mol to 95 mol preferably from 25 mol to 90 mol and more preferably from 35 mol to 90 mol and the content of allyl glycidyl ether is from 1 mol to 8 mol preferably from 1 mol to 7 mol and more preferably from 1 mol to 6 mol .

The ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate b used in the present invention is represented by the general formula I 

In the formula from the viewpoints of a reduction in resistance environment dependency stability of resistance in variation with time and compatibility with a polymer n is preferably from 1 to 20 more preferably from 6 to 16 and particularly preferably from 7 to 11.

Rto Rare preferably hydrogen atoms or alkyl groups having 1 to 5 carbon atoms and particularly preferably hydrogen atoms methyl groups or ethyl groups.

The ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate b used in the present invention is preferably methoxypolyethylene glycol methacrylate represented by the general formula II 

In the formula from the viewpoints of a reduction in resistance environment dependency stability of resistance in variation with time and compatibility with a polymer n is preferably from 6 to 16 and more preferably from 7 to 11.

There is no particular limitation on the molecular weight of the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate and the molecular weight is usually about 25 in terms of viscosity in mPa S 25 C. .

The amount of the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate blended is from 5 to 40 parts by weight preferably from 8 to 35 parts by weight and more preferably from 10 to 30 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber. When the amount blended is within the above range it is preferred since rubber characteristics required as a crosslinked product are not impaired while enabling a reduction in hardness and a reduction in resistance of the crosslinked product.

The crosslinking agent c used in the present invention is selected from the group consisting of a sulfur based crosslinking agent a quinoxaline based crosslinking agent and a triazine based crosslinking agent.

There is no particular limitation on the sulfur based crosslinking agent as long as it is capable of crosslinking an allyl glycidyl ether group and sulfur morpholine polysulfides thiuram polysulfides and the like are used. Specific examples of the sulfur include powdered sulfur precipitated sulfur colloidal sulfur surface treated sulfur insoluble sulfur nonhazardous sulfur and the like examples of the morpholine polysulfides include morpholine disulfide and examples of the thiuram polysulfides include tetramethyl thiuram disulfide tetraethyl thiuram disulfide tetrabutyl thiuram disulfide dipentamethylene thiuram tetrasulfide dipentamethylene thiuram hexasulfide and the like.

Examples of the quinoxaline based crosslinking agent include 2 3 dimercaptoquinoxaline quinoxaline 2 3 dithiocarbonate 6 methylquinoxaline 2 3 dithiocarbonate 5 8 dimethylquinoxaline 2 3 dithiocarbonate and the like and 6 methylquinoxaline 2 3 dithiocarbonate is preferable.

Examples of the triazine based crosslinking agent include 2 4 6 trimercapto 1 3 5 triazine 2 hexylamino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine 2 diethylamino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine 2 cyclohexylamino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine 2 dibutylamino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine 2 anilino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine 2 phenylamino 4 6 dimercaptotriazine and the like and 2 4 6 trimercapto 1 3 5 triazine is preferable.

The amount of the crosslinking agent c blended is from 0.1 to 10 parts by weight preferably from 0.3 to 5 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.5 to 1.5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber. When the amount blended is less than 0.1 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the tercopolymer the degree of crosslinking becomes insufficient. On the other hand when the amount blended is more than 10 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the tercopolymer the crosslinked product becomes too rigid to obtain physical properties that are usually expected as the crosslinked rubber product. The crosslinking agent may be used alone or two or more kinds of them may be used in combination.

In the present invention it is possible to use a known vulcanization accelerator which is usually used in combination with these crosslinking agents.

When the sulfur based crosslinking agent is used as the crosslinking agent c a known vulcanization accelerator used in combination with the sulfur based crosslinking agent can be used without any limitation and examples thereof include thiuram polysulfides mercaptobenzothiazoles morpholine sulfides sulfenamides and the like.

Examples of the thiuram polysulfides include tetramethyl thiuram disulfide tetraethyl thiuram disulfide tetrabutyl thiuram disulfide dipentamethylene thiuram tetrasulfide dipentamethylene thiuram hexasulfide and the like examples of the mercaptobenzothiazoles include mercaptobenzothiazole dibenzothiazyl disulfide and various metal salts of 2 mercaptobenzothiazole cyclohexylamine salts of 2 mercaptobenzothiazole 2 N N diethylthiocarbamoylthio benzothiazole 2 4 morpholinodithio benzothiazole and the like examples of the morpholine sulfides include morpholine disulfide 2 mercaptobenzothiazole and the like and examples of the sulfenamides include N cyclohexyl 2 benzothiazylsulfenamide N N dicyclohexyl 2 benzothiazylsulfenamide N oxydiethylene 2 benzothiazylsulfenamide N tert butyl 2 benzothiazylsulfenamide N tert butyl di 2 benzothiazole sulfenimide and the like.

The amount of the vulcanization accelerator blended for use in the present invention is preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.5 to 3 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber a .

When the quinoxaline based crosslinking agent and or triazine based crosslinking agent are used as the crosslinking agent c examples of a known vulcanization accelerator used in combination with these crosslinking agents include sulfur morpholine sulfides amines weak acid salts of amine basic silica quaternary ammonium salts quaternary phosphonium salts alkali metal salts of fatty acid thiuram sulfides polyfunctional vinyl compound mercaptobenzothiazoles sulfenamides dimethiocarbamates and the like. When the quinoxaline based crosslinking agent is applied to the composition of the present invention examples of particularly preferred accelerator include a 1 8 diazabicyclo 5 4 0 undecene 7 hereinafter abbreviated to DBU salt and a 1 5 diazabicyclo 4 3 0 nonene 5 hereinafter abbreviated to DBN salt.

Examples of the DBU salt include a DBU carbonate a DBU stearic acid salt a DBU 2 ethylhexylic acid salt a DBU benzoic acid salt a DBU salicylic acid salt a DBU 3 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid salt a DBU phenol resin salt a DBU 2 mercaptobenzothiazole salt a DBU 2 mercaptobenzimidazole salt and the like. Examples of the DBN salt include a DBN carbonate a DBN stearic acid salt a DBN 2 ethylhexylic acid salt a DBN benzoic acid salt a DBN salicylic acid salt a DBN 3 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid salt a DBN phenol resin salt a DBN 2 mercaptobenzothiazole salt a DBN 2 mercaptobenzimidazole salt and the like. When these DBU salts and or DBN salts are used as the accelerator the amount blended is preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.5 to 3 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber a .

Examples of a retarder used in the present invention include N cyclohexylthiophthalimide phthalic anhydride an organozinc compound acidic silica and the like. The amount of the retarder blended is preferably from 0 to 10 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber a .

A known acid acceptor can be used as an acid acceptor used in the present invention and the acid acceptor is preferably a metal compound and or an inorganic microporous crystal. Examples of the metal compound include an oxide a hydroxide a carbonate a carboxylate a silicate a borate and a phosphite of metals of Group II of the Periodic Table Group 2 and Group 12 an oxide a hydroxide a carboxylate a silicate a sulfate a nitrate and a phosphate of metals of Group III of the Periodic Table Group 3 and Group 13 and an oxide a basic carbonate a basic carboxylate a basic phosphite a basic sulfite and a tribasic sulfate of metals of Group IV of the Periodic Table Group 4 and Group 14 .

Specific examples of the metal compound include magnesia magnesium hydroxide aluminum hydroxide barium hydroxide sodium carbonate magnesium carbonate barium carbonate calcium oxide calcium hydroxide calcium carbonate calcium silicate calcium stearate zinc stearate calcium phthalate calcium phosphite zinc white tin oxide litharge red lead white lead dibasic lead phthalate dibasic lead carbonate tin stearate basic lead phosphite basic tin phosphite basic lead sulfite tribasic lead sulfate and the like and sodium carbonate magnesia magnesium hydroxide calcium oxide calcium hydroxide calcium silicate zinc white and the like are preferable.

The inorganic microporous crystal means a crystalline porous material and can be clearly distinguished from amorphous porous materials for example silica gel alumina and the like. Examples of the inorganic microporous crystal include zeolites aluminophosphate type molecular sieve layered silicate synthetic hydrotalcite titanic acid alkali metal salt and the like. Examples of the particularly preferable acid acceptor include synthetic hydrotalcite.

Examples of the zeolites include in addition to natural zeolites various zeolites such as A X and Y type synthetic zeolites sodalites natural or synthetic mordenite ZSM 5 and the metal substituted zeolites thereof. These zeolites may be used alone or two or more kinds of them may be used in combination. Metal of metal substituted zeolites is often sodium. The zeolites preferably have large acid accepting ability and A type zeolite is preferable.

The synthetic hydrotalcite is represented by the following general formula 3 MgZnAl OH COHO 3 wherein x and y represent a real number of 0 to 10 and satisfy a relation x y 1 to 10 respectively z represents a real number of 1 to 5 and w represents a real number of 0 to 10.

Examples of the hydrotalcites represented by the general formula 1 include MgAl OH CO.3.5HO MgAl OH CO MgAl OH CO.3.5HO MgAl OH CO.4HO MgAl OH CO.4HO MgAl OH CO.1.7HO MgZnAl OH CO.3.5HO MgZnAl OH COand the like.

The amount of the acid acceptor blended is preferably from 0.2 to 50 parts by weight more preferably from 0.5 to 50 parts by weight and particularly preferably from 1 to 20 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the epichlorohydrin based rubber a . When the amount blended is within the above range it is preferred since crosslinking is sufficiently performed and the crosslinked product does not become too rigid and thus physical properties to be usually expected as an epichlorohydrin based rubber crosslinked product is obtained.

The composition for a semiconductive rubber used in the present invention can be optionally blended with various blending agents used usually in the art for example vulcanization retarders rubber antioxidants fillers reinforcers plasticizers processing aids pigments flame retardants and the like.

In order to produce a crosslinked rubber product according to the present invention any blending means which have hitherto been used in the field of polymer processing for example a mixing roll a Banbury mixer various kneaders and the like can be used. Semiconductive electronic parts of the present invention can be usually obtained by heating the composition of the present invention within a range from 100 to 200 C. The vulcanization time varies depending on the temperature and is usually within a range from 0.5 to 300 minutes. There is no particular limitation on a method of vulcanization molding and for example a compression molding method and an injection molding method using a mold and a method of heating using a steam can an air oven or the like can be suitably used.

The present invention will be specifically explained by using examples and comparative examples. However the present invention is not limited to the following examples as long as it does not depart from the gist of the present invention.

The respective materials shown in the following Tables 1 4 and 5 were kneaded by an open roll to produce an unvulcanized rubber sheet. The obtained unvulcanized rubber sheet was subjected to press vulcanization at 170 C. for 15 minutes. The obtained crosslinked sheet was conditioned under an environment of 23 C. 50 RH and then a volume resistivity value was measured in accordance with JIS K6271 by HIRESTA manufactured by Mitsubishi Yuka K. K. using a double ring electrode.

The respective materials shown in the following Tables 2 6 and 7 were kneaded by a kneader mixer and an open roll to produce an unvulcanized rubber sheet. The obtained unvulcanized rubber sheet was subjected to press vulcanization at 170 C. for 15 minutes. The obtained crosslinked sheet was conditioned under an environment of 23 C. 50 RH and then a volume resistivity value was measured in accordance with JIS K6271 by HIRESTA manufactured by Mitsubishi Yuka K. K. using a double ring electrode.

The respective materials shown in the following Tables 3 8 and 9 were kneaded by a kneader mixer and an open roll to produce an unvulcanized rubber sheet. The unvulcanized rubber sheet was subjected to press vulcanization at 170 C. for 15 minutes. The obtained crosslinked sheet was conditioned under environments of 10 C. 15 RH 23 C. 50 RH and 35 C. 85 RH and a volume resistivity value was measured in accordance with JIS K6271 by HIRESTA manufactured by Mitsubishi Yuka K. K. using a double ring electrode and then the environment dependency of the crosslinked product was evaluated.

Rubber hardness was measured in accordance with JIS K6253 by ASKER type A Durometer manufactured by KOBUNSHI KEIKI Co. Ltd.

The examples and comparative examples described in Table 1 are crosslinked products obtained by blending an epichlorohydrin based rubber with only a crosslinking agent. The crosslinked products obtained by blending with the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the examples were crosslinked rubber products with low resistance value and low hardness as compared with crosslinked products obtained by blending with no ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the comparative examples or blending with various acrylic polymers. In Comparative Example 2 evaluation could not be carried out since it was impossible to knead.

The examples and comparative Examples described in Table 2 are crosslinked products obtained by blending an epichlorohydrin based rubber with fillers used generally in the relevant applications. The crosslinked products obtained by blending with the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the examples were crosslinked rubber products with low resistance value and low hardness as compared with crosslinked products obtained by blending with no ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the comparative examples or blending with a liquid NBR. In Comparative Example 8 subjected to peroxide crosslinking the crosslinked product could not be evaluated since it was brittle in case of removing from a mold at the time of crosslinking.

In Example 5 and Example 6 described in Table 3 the environment dependency of the crosslinked products obtained by blending with the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the present invention is evaluated. When a small number of ethylene oxide units of the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate are included for example the number of ethylene oxide units is from 6 to 16 the environment dependency decreases and therefore it is more preferable.

The examples and comparative examples shown in Tables 4 and 5 are crosslinked products obtained by blending an epichlorohydrin based rubber with only a crosslinking agent. The crosslinked products obtained by blending with the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the examples were crosslinked rubbers with low resistance value and low hardness as compared with the crosslinked products obtained by blending with no ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the comparative examples.

The examples and comparative Examples described in Tables 6 and 7 are crosslinked products obtained by blending an epichlorohydrin based rubber with fillers which are generally used in the relevant applications. The crosslinked products obtained by blending with the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the example were crosslinked rubbers with low resistance value and low hardness as compared with the crosslinked product obtained by blending with no ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the comparative examples or obtained by blending with a liquid NBR. In Comparative Example 15 subjected to peroxide crosslinking the crosslinked product could not be evaluated since it was brittle in case of removing from a mold at the time of crosslinking.

In Examples 15 to 18 described in Tables 8 and 9 the environment dependency of the crosslinked products obtained by blending the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate of the present invention is evaluated. When a small number of ethylene oxide units of the ethylene oxide modified meth acrylate are included for example the number of ethylene oxide units is from 6 to 16 the environment dependency decreases and therefore it is more preferable.

The crosslinked rubber product of the present invention can be widely applied in the field where semiconductive rubber parts are usually used. For example the crosslinked rubber product is useful as a charge roll transfer roll development roll and rubber blade for electrophotographic equipment.

