---

title: Item-specific money transfer methods and systems
abstract: The invention provides various systems and methods for implementing item-specific money transfers. The method includes receiving identification of an item, determining a vendor and a price of the item, and receiving, from a receiver, a money transfer request for an amount of the price of the item. The money transfer request identifies a sender. The method further includes sending the money transfer request to the sender, receiving, from the sender, authorization for a money transfer in an amount of the price of the item. The authorization includes an indication that funds from the money transfer are restricted for use only for the item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788408&OS=08788408&RS=08788408
owner: The Western Union Company
number: 08788408
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---
The present invention relates in general to money transfers and more particularly to item specific money transfers.

Currently the process of transferring money is complicated and not user friendly. There are a number of forms and processes that must be completed prior to completing a money transfer. Furthermore when a person sends money to another person he or she is often unsure of exactly how the money has been spent if the item is being purchased at the best price available and to prevent fraudulent transactions. Accordingly improvements in the art are needed.

The present invention provides a method for implementing item specific money transfers. The method includes receiving by a money transfer processing system identification of an item determining by the money transfer processing system a vendor and a price of the item receiving by the money transfer processing system from a receiver a money transfer request for an amount of the price of the item. The money transfer request identifies a sender. The method further includes sending by the money transfer processing system the money transfer request to the sender and receiving by the money transfer processing system from the sender authorization for a money transfer in an amount of the price of the item. The authorization includes an indication that funds from the money transfer are restricted for use only for the item. Further the method includes pre staging by the money transfer processing system the money transfer binding by the money transfer processing system the funds of the money transfer to only be available for payment to the vendor for the item and sending by the money transfer processing system to the vender of the item the money transfer for payment of the item.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides for a method of generating an item specific money transfer identifier. The method includes receiving by a money transfer system from a first sender of a plurality of senders identification of an item for purchase a geographical location of the item and a money transfer request for an amount of the item. The method further includes pre staging by the money transfer system a money transfer for the amount of the item and generating by the money transfer system an identifier for the money transfer. The identifier comprises an item identifier identifying the item a location identifier identifying the geographical location and a first funding identifier. The method further includes securely sending the identifier to a receiver receiving by the money transfer system from the receiver the identifier and in response to receiving the identifier from the receiver providing the receiver with funds from the money transfer.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides for a machine readable medium for implementing item specific money transfers. The machine readable medium includes instructions for receiving by a money transfer processing system identification of an item determining by the money transfer processing system a vendor and a price of the item receiving by the money transfer processing system from a receiver a money transfer request for an amount of the price of the item. The money transfer request identifies a sender. The machine readable medium further includes instructions for sending by the money transfer processing system the money transfer request to the sender and receiving by the money transfer processing system from the sender authorization for a money transfer in an amount of the price of the item. The authorization includes an indication that funds from the money transfer are restricted for use only for the item. Further the machine readable medium includes instructions for pre staging by the money transfer processing system the money transfer binding by the money transfer processing system the funds of the money transfer to only be available for payment to the vendor for the item and sending by the money transfer processing system to the vender of the item the money transfer for payment of the item.

Aspects of the present invention relate to senders being able to be certain of how a receiver uses funds transferred to the receiver from the sender to a biller from a sender etc. If the receiver for example has a problem spending the money on the intended item it could be difficult to know if the receiver actually used the money that he or she received in the way it was intended. As such embodiments of this invention would allow the receiver to send a short message service SMS or an email of a picture of the item he or she purchased or proof of purchase e.g. a money order for rent or a receipt for an appliance etc. or desires to purchase.

In one embodiment the sender may send a money transfer along with an SMS or email that specifies what the money was to be used for. The message would be sent to the receiver and reminders would continue to be sent the receiver until proof of purchase has been sent to the sender. Once the receiver has made the purchase he or she could then take a photo of the item purchased and send the photo in a message. Accordingly the sender knows that the money was used to purchase the intended item.

Further aspects of the present invention allow for the sender to bind a money transfer to a specific item such that the money could not be used for any purpose other than to purchase the bound item. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may provide comparison shopping for the specific item in conjunction with the money transfer.

Turning now to a flow diagram which illustrates a method of implementing item specific money transfers. At process block identification or selection of an item or items may be received at a money transfer or other processing system. Multiple items may be identified selected e.g. a grocery list for a single money transfer earmarked for multiple items. The selected item may be for example a consumer good a charitable donation a service or the like. The selection of the item may be made through a mobile device a web interface at a kiosk at an agent location of the money transfer processor etc. In one embodiment the item may be identified by taking a photograph of the item and providing the photograph to a recognition program used to identify the item. Alternatively an identifier for the item may be scanned e.g. by barcode RFID near field communication etc. in order for the item to be identified. In one embodiment near field communication NFC may by a short range high frequency wireless communication technology which enables the exchange of data between devices over approximately a 10 centimeter i.e. around 4 inches distance. Further the identification for the item may be entered into an interface. In one embodiment if for example the photograph of the item fails to identify a specific item then comparable items may instead be presented to the user.

At process block price comparisons may be provided for the item from one or more vendors. For example a user may initially select a refrigerator made by vendor X based on the identifier for the refrigerator e.g. the universal pricing code UPC International Standard Book Number ISBN European Article Number EAN etc. and a search of vendors selling the same refrigerator with the same identifier may be conducted. A vendor may pay a fee to be included in the search results and or for placement e.g. first shown in the search results. The results of the search including for example the vendor sometimes referred to as the merchant the price etc. may then be displayed to the user and or to the sender.

In one embodiment multiple users and or persons from which the user may request funding for the items may have access to the comparison display of items. As such at process block feedback and or suggestions from the users and potential funders may be received regarding the items displayed. Further the users and potential funders may also be able to provide additional possible vendors and or items which were not found in the search. As such the users and funders have control and input in the decision making process as to which item s to be selected from which vendor s . Accordingly the desired item s may be selected process block . For example if a college student is asking his or her parent to fund a laptop computer the student may take a picture of the laptop he or she desires and through an interface e.g. a web interface the parent and the student can compare the same and or different laptops from various vendors until a laptop is agreed upon.

Accordingly at process block a money transfer request accompanied by identification of the selected item may be sent to the money transfer processing system and then to one or more money transfer senders and or funders. In other words the receiver may request that one or more funders send money to fund the selected item. In response to one or more of the funders accepting the money transfer request and initiating a money transfer to fund at least a portion of the selected item one or more money transfers may be pre staged for full or partial payment of the selected item process block . Further the one or more funders may accept a portion of a money transfer request to fund multiple items e.g. a parent may fund the purchase of bread and milk from a grocery store list but not fund cigarettes .

Furthermore the pre staged money transfer may be bound or restricted for use only to purchase the selected item process block or available to purchase any item except a restricted item. For example if the receiver were to receive the funds from the money transfer without any restriction the receiver may have indicated to the funder that the funds were going to be used to purchase the selected item however once the funds have been received by the receiver there would not be a mechanism to ensure that the funds were actually used to purchase the selected item. For example the receiver may have a gambling problem and in the past has used funds from money transfers to gamble as opposed to purchase a needed item. Therefore in one embodiment the pre staged money transfer may be bound to the selected item such that the funds can only be used to purchase the selected item or to purchase any item other than a restricted item.

For example the funds from the money transfer may be bound by the item s UPC or the like or the funds may be transferred directly to the vendor of the selected item and can only be used to purchase the selected item from the specified vendor. Furthermore a return restriction may be placed on the item. For example the receiver may be restricted from simply purchasing the item and then returning the item for a refund or store credit. Instead the receiver may only be allowed to exchange the item for the same or a similar item or send the funds back to the funder or sender . A fee may apply to sending funds back to the funder or sender . Accordingly the funder or sender can be satisfied that the funds are used for the selected item.

At process block the item may be purchased using the funds from the money transfer. Furthermore the funds may be sent directly to the vendor may be placed on a stored value card gift card etc. The funds may also be placed on a voucher or the like. In an alternative embodiment illustrates a method of implementing item specific money transfers with comparative collaborative shopping. At process block the item or items for purchase may be identified. At process block price comparisons for the selected item may be received. These comparison prices may be specific to a vendor location etc. For example vendor A may provide the item at a first price and vendor B may provide the item at a second price. Alternatively vendor A may provide the item at a first price at a first location and a second price at a second location and so forth. As such the lowest price for an item may ultimately depend on the vendor and or the location.

Furthermore comparable or similar items may be presented. For example other brands or other models of the same item may be presented or substitute items may be presented e g lemon for sailt margarine for butter natural gas for petroleum etc. . As such the customer may be able to compare prices by item type in order to get the best price. Accordingly at process block a vendor and an accompanying location may be selected. It should be noted that the location may be on line or virtual as opposed to a physical store location. During this comparative collaborative shopping process not only the customer who is requesting funds but the sender s of the funds can be involved in the decision making process. The sender s may also be the only one s involved in the process. One or more merchants organizations may also be involved. For example merchant s may be willing to negotiate a price for the item s or substitute s e.g. competitive bidding . Likewise organizations like charities may be willing to negotiate on which cause s may be benefited by a donation and or the percent or amount that will go to the benefit of the cause s .

For example the receiver may be in Mexico and the sender may be in Colorado. The receiver may be requesting from the sender money to purchase a refrigerator. The receiver may have identified a refrigerator in Mexico at a first price and sends the sender a request for the amount of the identified refrigerator however the sender may have located a better price for the refrigerator in Colorado even with the added shipping costs . Therefore the sender could suggest or require that the money be used to purchase the refrigerator in Colorado as opposed the refrigerator in Mexico. Similarly the sender may have found a better price elsewhere in Mexico e.g. another city merchant and or location .

Furthermore once the item vendor and location have been determined a money transfer may be pre staged process block . In one embodiment the money transfer may be restricted for use only to purchase the selected item s . A further restriction may be included which does not allow the item s to be returned for universal store credit or cash. For example if the item is returned then the funds may revert back to the sender. The sender may be notified e.g. by SMS text message e mail telephone call etc. of the return so he she can pick up the reverted funds at a location or the funds may be credited to an account of the sender or returned by negotiable instrument. Alternatively the item may only be able to be exchanged or the funds may only be able to be used in the same department as the item. Accordingly the sender can be assured that the funds are properly used for their intended purpose. Hence at process block the pre staged money transfer may be used to purchase the selected item. A pre staged money transfer may involve generating a password PIN and or transaction umber e.g. by the sender receiver merchant organization host computer point of sale device etc. for use by the receiver to purchase the item s . The password PIN and or transaction number each may be determined in part by one or more of the sender receiver merchant organization host computer point of sale device etc. or may be determined in whole or in part by an identifier associated with the item s e.g. VPC .

Referring next to which illustrates a method of implementing money transfers for specific items for charitable donations. At process block a charitable item may be identified. For example a charitable organization may identify a large number of items e.g. 1000 bottles of water for relief in a disaster area. In order to purchase the item s the charitable organization may need a number of smaller donations from a number of different senders. Accordingly funding requests may be generated and sent out to a number of potential senders process block e.g. by text message e mail telephone call direct mail advertisements etc. .

At process block in response to the funding requests pre staged money transfers from donors may be received to pay for the item s . These pre staged money transfers may be for any portion of the total amount and also may include a restriction which indicates that the funds are only to be used for the specified charitable item s or other charitable purposes. As such at process block the money transfers may be bound to the item s and or purposes so that the funds would not be available unless they were used to purchase the charitable items and or used for such purposes. Also a cash refund for the charitable items could be prohibited.

At process block the item s may be purchased using the pre staged money transfers. Furthermore a charitable contribution tax statement or similar document may be sent to the donors process block . Alternatively the information may be directly downloaded into a tax and financial tracking software system.

Turning next to which illustrates a method of implementing item and or location specific PIN generation. At process block an item to be purchased may be identified. The identification process may occur in a same or similar way of that of . Furthermore an item identifier e.g. a barcode a UPC etc. may be associated with the item. At process block the location of the item may be identified. This may be the physical location of the item the physical location of the vendor selling the item a virtual or web based location etc.

At process block one or more funding sources may be identified. For example money transfer mobile wallet s bank account s credit card s debit card s gift card s cash investment account s check s money order s etc. may be identified for use in payment for the item. There may be many payments and payment types from many sources used to pay for the item. In one embodiment using the item identifier an identifier for the location and identifiers for the funding sources a three part PIN password or transaction identifier may be generated process block . The PIN password or transaction identifier may also be one or two part based on the criteria above.

In one embodiment the receiver s location may be tracked and a determination may be made whether the location identifier and the receiver s location match. Tracking the receiver s location may be done where the PIN is used and or by GPS. For example if the location identifier was for Denver Colo. and when the receiver attempted to use the PIN he or she was in Sacramento Calif. the receiver would be denied the funds and an alert may be generated. Alternatively the location identifier may restrict purchase of the item to a vendor location or general location. At process block the PIN and or receiver s location may be securely transmitted to a money transfer entity for fund retrieval. For example the location identifier may be used to prevent fraudulent transactions. If the owner of the PIN is scheduled to be at location A and the funds associated with the PIN are attempted to be used at location B a hold or alarm may be generated. Additionally biometric information fingerprint retinal scan etc. or facial recognition information may be used in conjunction with the location information. For example not only does the location of the PIN holder need to match the location identifier but also biometric information from the PIN holder must match the rightful owner of the PIN.

Prior to the funds being disbursed to the receiver and or vendor merchant a biometric scan current location information and the PIN may be transmitted to the money transfer entity. The transmission may be a near field or similar transmission. Alternatively or in addition after the PIN has been transmitted the receiver may be required to photograph himself or herself and transmit the picture to the money transfer entity within a certain time after the transmission of the PIN in order to verify the receiver s identity. He or she may also be required to be holding the purchased item in the photograph which may then be sent to the sender. Alternatively or in addition the receiver may also be required to photograph a bar code and or UPC on the item and or photograph the receipt and or bar code on the receipt.

Furthermore the item identifier may be configured to indicate that the funds associated with the PIN are to be restricted for use only for purchasing the item identified by the item identifier. Also the PIN provides for the ability to tie multiple funding sources to the same item. For example a receiver may have three relatives each contributing to the cost of the item and so all three funding source identifiers may be associated with the PIN. As such at process block the fund s associated with the PIN may then be used to purchase the item identified by the item identifier.

Referring next to which illustrates a system for implementing item specific money transfers and comparative shopping according to a further embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment system may additionally include an interface . Interface may be for example a web interface a kiosk a point of sale POS etc. Interface may be configured to provide a display and or input for displaying and selecting items.

System may further include comparing engine in communication with interface . Comparing engine may further be in communication with vendors N . As such comparing engine may be configured to receive an item selection or identification from interface and then access vendors and to receive price and location comparisons from the vendors as well as alternative items. Accordingly the comparative shopping between sender s receiver s and or merchants organizations may be completed see .

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements can include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration chips and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a numeric keypad a keyboard a touch screen and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer a sound card and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device a solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities mesh network etc. and or the like. The device may be a web enabled Smartphone or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system can also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs or Application Programming Interfaces APIs which may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention and or configure systems of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions and or code might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system e.g. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection with other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In one aspect the invention employs a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another machine readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various machine readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

A set of embodiments comprises systems for implementing item specific money transfers. Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows e.g. Vista and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer cellular telephone Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant PDA capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and or navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention may operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network WAN a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols mesh network Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers or mainframe computers. Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one or more application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any suitable programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from clients including depending on the configuration database clients API clients web browsers etc. running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention such as interface . Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML Javascript WML etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server. In some cases a web server may be integrated with an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files e.g. application code data files etc. necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server or mainframe computer and or a plurality of specialized servers or mainframe computers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as the database can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

In a further embodiment a transaction system which includes a loyalty host to administer the loyalty programs may be provided. In some instances the loyalty host may be a component of the one or more machines included in the transaction system performing other functions. Alternatively the loyalty host may be a standalone system receiving transaction details from another component of the transaction system. The loyalty host may be used to automatically enroll customers in a loyalty program. Loyalty systems and methods are more fully described in Universal Loyalty Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 190 348 filed on Aug. 12 2008 and Money Transfer Convenience Card Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 687 575 filed on Oct. 15 2003 the complete disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment an agent may offer services to perform money transfer transactions. The customer may initiate a money transfer transaction by walking into an agent location and providing details of the money transfer transaction to an agent clerk. Money transfer transaction details may include recipient information money transfer amount and or information about the customer sender such as a telephone number. The agent clerk may enter the details into a POS device. When all the details have been entered the POS device may transmit the transaction information to a transaction host for processing. Alternatively the customer may stage or initiate a money transfer transaction at a kiosk or other user input device. The customer may also stage or initiate a money transfer transaction over the telephone of the Internet

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

