---

title: Mirror support
abstract: Disclosed herein is a method of making a mirror support comprising a composite, the composite comprising a plurality of carbon nanotubes, wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes, and a laminate comprising the composite.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08603285&OS=08603285&RS=08603285
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08603285
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
This application is a continuation application based on previously filed application Ser. No. 12 128 817 filed May 29 2008 now abandoned and hence the applicant requests this priority date. This application contains no new subject matter the specification and drawings are identical but new claims have been included that replace the original claims . The applicant also requests that the Information Disclosure Statement previously filed by the applicant in application Ser. No. 12 128 817 and the references considered by the examiner in said application be considered in this application.

The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The instant disclosure generally relates to a mirror support comprising a composite the composite comprising a plurality of interlinked or inter connected carbon nanotubes and a method of making the mirror support.

Mirror supports for instruments requiring precision e.g. for large telescopes often require a myriad of compromises. An optimal mirror support would preferably include a low areal density a high thermal conductivity a low coefficient of thermal expansion high stiffness a high strength to weight ratio high reflectivity throughout much of the UV IR and radio spectrum and would be superconductive when cooled below 100 K.

However materials having the required stiffness often have a large areal density. Materials having a low coefficient of thermal expansion often have relatively low strength to weigh ratios and or low thermal conductivity. Accordingly there is a need in the art for a mirror support which more closely approximates an optimal mirror support.

Individual carbon nanotubes may provide at least some of the properties of a more optimal mirror support. Numerous references are directed to carbon nanotubes and there use in a variety of applications. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 259 106 to Jain Jain 106 is generally directed to a circuitry sheet comprising an electronic device layer stack containing electronic devices. Jain 106 discloses the use of a temporary substrate in which a suitable conductor material may also include graphite sheets and conductive carbon nanotubes sheets films and foils. Jain 106 also discloses the combination of this substrate with a stiffener.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 756 025 6 756 026 6 824 755 6 939 525 7 048 903 7 052 666 7 067 098 7 097 820 and 7 115 864 and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2004 0265209 and 2005 0244326 to Colbert et al. collectively referred to herein as Colbert are generally directed to a single wall carbon nanotubes purification process and more particularly to a purification process that comprises heating a single wall carbon nanotube containing felt under oxidizing conditions to remove the amorphous carbon deposits and other contaminating materials. The felt may be heated in an aqueous solution of an inorganic oxidant such as nitric acid a mixture of hydrogen peroxide and sulfuric acid or a potassium permanganate to produce a high proportion of single wall nanotubes that are substantially free of other material.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 264 990 to Rueckes et al. Rueckes 990 is generally directed to nanotube films and articles and methods of making the same. Rueckes 990 discloses conductive articles including an aggregate of nanotube segments in which the nanotube segments contact other nanotube segments to define a plurality of conductive pathways along the article. The articles may be disposed on substrates and may form an electrical network of nanotubes within the article itself. Conductive articles may be made on a substrate by forming a nanotube fabric on the substrate and defining a pattern within the fabric in which the pattern corresponds to the conductive article. According to Rueckes 990 nanotube fabric may be formed by growing the nanotube fabric on the substrate using a catalyst by depositing a solution of suspended nanotubes on the substrate by spin coating by dipping a substrate into a solution of carbon nanotubes or by spraying an aerosol having nanotubes onto a surface of a substrate.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 683 783 Smalley 783 and its divisional applications 6 749 827 6 949 237 6 979 709 6 986 876 7 008 604 7041 620 7 048 999 7 087 207 7 105 596 7 108 841 and 7 205 069 collectively referred to as Smalley are generally directed to membranes comprising an array of single wall carbon nanotubes wherein the membrane is nanoporous. The Smalley references disclose a membrane comprising a substantially two dimensional array of a homogeneous population of single walled nanotubes aggregated in substantially parallel orientation to form a monolayer extending in directions substantially perpendicular to the orientation of the individual nanotubes. Smalley discloses composite materials defined as materials that are composed of two or more discrete constituents. According to Smalley composites include a matrix which serves to enclose the composite and give it its bulk form and a structural constituent which determines the internal structure of the component. The matrix deforms and distributes an applied stress to the structural constituent. Although composites are generally extremely strong their strength is generally anisotropic being much less in the direction perpendicular to the plane of the composite material than any parallel direction. Smalley also discloses that composites formed in layers or in laminate strips are prone to delamination. Smalley discloses use of carbon nanotube structural constituents to improve the properties of conventional composite materials. One such example involves composites built up of fibrous laminates impregnated and bonded with a polymer matrix material. Graphite fiber fabric layers bonded with an epoxy system is a well known example of such a composite. By using carbon nanotube ropes or fibers that exhibit a 3 D loopy structure added only at the epoxy graphite interfaces resistance to delamination of the resulting laminar composite can be substantially increased. The carbon nanotube material can be dispersed in the epoxy system before impregnation or premixed into one of the reactive components thereof . The carbon nanotube material can also be dispersed in a liquid carrier and sprayed or otherwise applied to the laminate as each graphite fabric layer is added.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007 0059452 to Debe et al. Debe 452 is generally directed to a process for extending the length of nanostructured support elements of thin film layers. The processes involve the initial formation of nanostructured support elements during a first annealing step a coating of material deposited on the nanostructured support elements and a second annealing step wherein the initially formed nanostructured support elements longitudinally extend. Layers having extended nanostructured support elements are also described.

EP1787955 is generally directed to an aligned single layer carbon nanotube bulk structure which comprises an assembly of a plurality of aligned single layer carbon nanotube and has a height of not less than 10 micrometers and an aligned single layer carbon nanotube bulk structure which comprises an assembly of a plurality of aligned single layer carbon nanotubes and has been patterned in a predetermined form. This structure is produced by chemical vapor deposition CVD of carbon nanotubes in the presence of a metal catalyst in a reactive atmosphere with an oxidizing agent preferably water added thereto. An aligned single layer carbon nanotube bulk structure which has realized high purity and significantly large scaled length or height its production process and apparatus and its applied products are provided.

While numerous references are directed to carbon nanotubes and there use composites laminates and other substrates comprising inter connected carbon nanotubes and or a web of inter connected nanotubes and or a web of inter connected carbon nanotubes which are also connected chemically to an interstitial matrix have been largely ignored.

Accordingly there is a need for a mirror support having at least some of the properties of individual carbon nanotubes.

In one aspect of the present invention a mirror support comprises a composite the composite comprising a plurality of carbon nanotubes wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes.

In yet another aspect of the present invention a mirror support comprises a composite the composite comprising a laminate the laminate comprising a plurality of layers each in physical contact with at least one other layer wherein at least one of the plurality of layers comprises a plurality of carbon nanotubes wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention since the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known devices have been shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. For the most part details unnecessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention have been omitted in as much as such details are within the skills of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

Refer now to the drawings wherein depicted elements are not necessarily shown to scale and wherein like or similar elements are designated by the same reference numeral through the several views.

Broadly the present invention generally provides a mirror support. The term mirror support as used herein may include a mirror support and or a blank of a mirror support which after additional conditioning and or manipulation is suitable for use as a mirror support. The mirror support of the instant disclosure may comprise a composite comprising a plurality of carbon nanotubes wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes. In another embodiment the mirror support of the instant disclosure may comprise a composite comprising a plurality of carbon nanotubes which are interconnected to at least one additional carbon nanotube through a bridging moiety. In still another embodiment the mirror support of the instant disclosure may comprise a composite comprising interconnected carbon nanotubes connected through a bridging moiety forming a web of interconnected carbon nanotubes which may be arranged in layers or webs. In still another embodiment the mirror support of the instant disclosure may comprise a composite comprising layers of webs of interconnected carbon nanotubes which may be interconnected between the layers through bridging moieties.

In more specifically describing the present invention shows a schematic view of two inter connected carbon nanotubes and of a composite generally referred to as of the instant disclosure. Each of the carbon nanotubes and are chemically bonded to one another i.e. connected through a bridging group which is in turn bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes and . As shown in at least one of the carbon nanotubes may further be bound to interstitial matrix via a chemical bond and or via the bridging group .

Carbon nanotubes suitable for use herein may be formed from any number of processes including arc discharge laser ablation through reaction of high pressure carbon monoxide and chemical vapor deposition CVD . These processes may take place in vacuum and or with process gases and or at atmospheric pressure.

The carbon nanotubes may be single walled double and or multi walled depending on the particular application. Furthermore the carbon nanotubes suitable for use herein include those in the armchair configuration the zigzag configuration various chiral configurations and the like as is known to one of skill in the art.

The carbon nanotubes of the instant disclosure may be greater than about 1 nm preferably greater than about 10 nm in diameter. The carbon nanotubes suitable for use herein preferably have an aspect ratio length diameter of greater than or equal to about 5 preferably greater than or equal to about 10 preferably greater than or equal to about 100 more preferably greater than or equal to about 1 000 with greater than or equal to about 1 000 000 being still more preferred. However nanotubes and or concatenations of nanotubes extending to lengths of meters to kilometers are quite suitable as well.

As shown in in an embodiment at least one of the plurality of carbon nanotubes comprises one or more functional groups wherein carbon nanotube may bond with a bridging moiety and or with an interstitial matrix. Accordingly the carbon nanotubes may be cross linked together. In an embodiment the composite may include cross linked carbon nanotubes in which the bridging moiety may be covalently bound to the carbon nanotube non covalently bound to the carbon nanotube e.g. via n stacking see for example Katz E. J. Electroanal. Chem. 1994 365 157 and Jaegfeldt H. Kuwana T. Johansson G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1983 105 1805 both of which are incorporated by referenced for the teachings directed to n stacking or a combination thereof.

In an embodiment the bridging moiety comprises a metal or metalloid atom. In yet another embodiment the bridging moiety consists essentially of or consists of a metal or metalloid atom. For purposes herein a metalloid atom is defined as including boron B aluminum Al silicon Si germanium Ge arsenic As antimony Sb tellurium Te polonium Po and or astatine At. In an embodiment the bridging moiety includes metals and or metalloids from Groups 1 15 preferably groups 4 14 more preferably groups 4 6 13 and 14 with aluminum titanium silicon and combinations thereof being still more preferred.

In an embodiment the carbon nanotube may be modified to include a functional group chemically bonded to the carbon nanotube and the bridging moiety and or the interstitial matrix may be bonded to the carbon nanotube through the functional group.

In an embodiment the bridging moiety and or the functional group bonded with the carbon nanotube comprises a multivalent organic or organometallic radical. Multivalent organic and or organometallic radicals suitable for use as bridging moieties and or functional groups include divalent organic radicals trivalent organic radicals and the like and may each independently comprise an organic and or an inorganic functional group or a functional group substituted with one or more functional groups wherein each of the functional groups comprises a one or more metal atoms H C O S P Si Se or a combination thereof.

Multivalent organic and or organometallic radicals suitable for use as bridging moieties and or functional groups include organic and inorganic radicals comprising hydrogen and or atoms from Groups 13 14 15 16 and or 17 preferably 1 to 20 carbon atoms oxygen sulfur phosphorous silicon selenium or a combination thereof. In addition bridging moieties and or functional groups may include one or more radicals substituted with one or more additional radicals.

Suitable radicals include hydrogen hydroxyl alkyl alkyloxy alkenyloxy aryl aryloxy aralkyl aralkyloxy alkaryl arylalkenyl cycloalkyl cycloalkyloxy aliphatic hydroxyl alkanol alkanolamine oxy acetyl acetamido acetoacetyl acetonyl acetonylidene acrylyl alanyl allophanoyl anisyl benzamido butryl carbonyl carboxy carbazoyl caproyl capryl caprylrl carbamido carbamoyl carbamyl carbazoyl chromyl cinnamoyl crotoxyl cyanato decanoly disiloxanoxy epoxy formamido formyl furyl furfuryl furfurylidene glutaryl glycinamido glycolyl glycyl glyocylyl heptadecanoyl heptanolyl hydroperoxy hydroxamino hydroxylamido hydrazido hydrazide hydroxy iodoso isoccyanato isonitroso keto lactyl methacrylyl malonyl nitroamino nitro nitrosamino nitrosimino nitrosyllnitroso nitrilo oxamido peroxy phosphinyl phosphide phosphido phosphite phosphito phospho phosphono phosphoryl seleninyl selenonyl siloxy succinamyl sulfamino sulfamyl sulfeno thiocarboxy toluoyl ureido valeryl radicals acetimido amidino amido amino aniline anilino arsino azido azino azo azoxy benzylidine benzidyne biphenyl butylene iso butylene seq butylene tert butylene cyano cyanamido diazo diazoamino ethylene disilanyl glycidyl guanidino guanyl heptanamido hydrazino hydrazo hypophosphito imido isobutylidene isopropylidene silyl silylene methylene mercapto methylene ethylene naphthal napthobenzyl naphthyl naphthylidene propylene propylidene pryidyl pyrryl phenethyl phenylene pyridino sulfonyl sulfo sulfonyl tetramethylene thenyl thienyl thiobenzyl thiocarbamyl thiocarbonyl thiocyanato thionyl thiuram toluidino tolyl a tolyl tolylene a tolylene tosyl triazano ethenyl vinyl selenyl trihydrocarbylamino trihaloamino trihydrocarbyl phosphite trihalophosphine trimethylene trityl vinylidene xenyl xylidino xylyl xylylene dienes and combinations thereof.

In an embodiment the plurality of carbon nanotubes are dispersed within an interstitial material also referred to herein as the interstitial matrix. Suitable interstitial materials include polymeric resins and or inorganic substrates. Preferred polymeric resins may include high density polyethylene linear low density polyethylene super low density polyethylene ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer ethylene acrylate copolymer ethylene acrylic acid copolymer ethylene methacrylic acid copolymer ethylene carbon monoxide copolymer amorphous polystyrene crystalline polystyrene vinyl chloride resin polyamide resin polyacetal resin polycarbonate resin ethylene propylene rubber ethylene 1 butene rubber propylene 1 butene rubber styrene butadiene rubber styrene butadiene block copolymer or a combination thereof.

Preferred inorganic substrates may comprise materials generally known in the art as glass. As used herein the term glass is defined as an amorphous solid a vitreous solid and or a super cooled liquid. In addition crystalline materials and or partially crystalline materials may also be used.

Numerous suitable glasses exist and include silicon based glass e.g. SiO titanium based glass e.g. TiO and or transitions metal phosphate glass such as niobium phosphate glass combinations thereof and the like. Glasses suitable for use herein include optical glasses as well as those suitable for a myriad of other purposes.

Other glasses suitable for use herein include glasses comprising inorganic preferably metal oxides and or organic materials including plastics e.g. acrylic glass carbon metals carbon dioxide phosphates borates chalcogenides fluorides germanates e.g. glasses based on GeO tellurites e.g. glasses based on TeO antimonates e.g. glasses based on SbO arsenates e.g. glasses based on AsO aluminates e.g. glasses based on AlO titanates e.g. glasses based on TiO tantalates e.g. glasses based on TaO nitrates carbonates combinations thereof and the like. Other suitable glasses include fluorozirconate fluoroaluminate aluminosilicate phosphate and chalcogenide glasses combinations thereof and the like. In an embodiment the glass may include a material in which extremes of pressure and temperature result in structural and physical changes to produce polyamorphic phase transitions e.g. an amorphous phase of carbon dioxide known in the art as amorphous carbonia a CO and the like which may exhibit an atomic structure resembling that of silicon based glass.

The substrates may further be doped with materials capable of producing ions which migrate and form bonds between the carbon nanotubes and or between the carbon nanotubes and the interstitial matrix under anodic bonding. The substrates may be doped by applying the material directly to the substrate by a variety of methods known in the art and or the substrate may be produced to include the doping material. Examples of doping materials include metals and or metal containing compounds metalloids e.g. boron and or metalloid containing compounds combinations thereof and the like.

As shown in in an embodiment the plurality of carbon nanotubes and are dispersed within an interstitial material preferably wherein at least one of the carbon nanotubes are bonded to the interstitial material either directly indicated by arrow or through a functional group indicated by arrow or via bridging moiety indicated by arrow .

In an embodiment at least a portion of the carbon nanotubes of the instant composite may further be aligned with one another. By aligned it is meant that a plurality of carbon nanotubes each having a minor axis parallel with the diameter of the tube and a major axis perpendicular to the diameter of the tube are oriented such that a portion of the carbon nanotubes has a major axis essentially parallel to the major axis of another carbon nanotube in an amount greater than would be present in a random distribution of carbon nanotubes. Accordingly aligned carbon nanotubes do not require essentially all of the carbon nanotubes to be parallel to one another but merely requires alignment of more than would be aligned in a random collection of carbon nanotubes under the same set of conditions.

As shown in a first layer of carbon nanotubes are arranged on a bottom substrate . An interstitial matrix material is applied to the carbon nanotubes . It should be understood by one skilled in the art that the interstitial matrix material although depicted as a single layer atop the carbon nanotubes for the purposes of showing the order of assembly of the embodiment depicted in the figure that the interstitial matrix material will fill the spaces between the carbon nanotubes . Optionally a second layer of carbon nanotubes and interstitial matrix material may be applied atop the first layers as shown. A top substrate is placed upon the carbon nanotubes and interstitial matrix material . Force may be applied to the top substrate to compressed the carbon nanotubes and interstitial matrix material as further described herein. An electric potential may be applied to all of the layers to provide anodic bonding as described further below.

In an embodiment at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other using anodic bonding fusion bonding low pressure chemical vapor deposition oxidation plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition combinations thereof and the like.

In anodic bonding the carbon nanotubes are bonded at elevated temperatures in the range from 100 C. to about 800 C. by placing and preferably clamping a substrate comprising the carbon nanotubes between two metal electrodes. An electric potential preferably a DC potential greater than or equal to about 1 kV or higher is then applied between the electrodes creating an electrical field which penetrates the substrates. The substrate comprises ions which are capable of migration when placed under the above DC potential. One substrate is preferably a glass that contains mobile ions e.g. metal ions sodium ions and or ions that result from a doping compound which at the elevated temperature are displaced from the bonding surface of the substrate by the applied electrical field. The depletion of these ions near the surface of the glass makes the surface highly reactive with the surface of the other substrate which preferably includes silicon and or other similarly chemically active material and thus forming a solid chemical bond between the carbon nanotubes and or between the carbon nanotubes and the substrate.

In an embodiment a substrate may be prepared for anodic bonding by patterning etching oxidation and or the like and then the carbon nanotubes may be deposited onto the substrate. One or more interstitial matrix layers doping material layers and or the like may be added as may one or more additional layers of carbon nanotubes. In an embodiment the carbon nanotubes my then be aligned. The layer of carbon nanotubes and the interstitial matrix may then be sandwiched between a second substrate which may or may not include a doping material. The layers may then be compressed and an electric potential applied thereto. The temperature of the materials may also be increased. After a period of time a carbon nanotube composite is produced.

In an embodiment the process may include fusion bonding wherein the substrates are first forced into intimate contact by applying a contact force. Once in contact the substrates hold together due to atomic attraction forces e.g. Van der Waals forces which are strong enough to allow the bonded substrates to be handled. The substrates are then placed in a furnace and annealed at high temperature after which a solid bond is formed between the substrates.

In an embodiment the process may include an evaporation step wherein the substrate is placed in a high vacuum chamber at a temperature wherein a crucible or other container containing the material is deposited which may be a precursor of a functional group and or a precursor of the bridging moiety. A heating source is used to heat the crucible causing the material to evaporate and condense on all exposed cool surfaces of the vacuum chamber and substrate. Typical sources of heating are E beam resistive heating RF inductive heating and the like. In some systems the substrate can be heated during deposition to alter the composition stress of the deposited material.

In an embodiment the process may include a low pressure chemical vapor deposition step LPCVD which may be performed in a reactor at temperatures up to about 900 C. and beyond. The deposited film is a product of a chemical reaction between the source gases supplied to the reactor.

In an embodiment the process may include an oxidation step wherein the substrate is placed in a high temperature furnace in which oxygen or water vapor is introduced. At elevated temperature the oxygen will diffuse into the substrate at high rate causing at least a partial oxidation of the material. It is possible to speed up the process further by operating at elevated furnace pressures.

In an embodiment the process may include a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition step PECVD which may be performed in a reactor at temperatures up to about 700 C. and beyond. The deposited film is a product of a chemical reaction between the source gases supplied to the reactor. A plasma is generated in the reactor to increase the energy available for the chemical reaction at a given temperature.

In an embodiment the process may include spin casting wherein a substrate is held by vacuum on a chuck. The material to be deposited is dissolved in a solvent. The solution is applied to the substrate which is then rotated at high speed. The rotation spreads the solution evenly over the surface and also causes some of the solvent to evaporate leaving a thin film of material on the substrate. The substrate is usually baked immediately after spin casting to remove the remaining solvent in the film.

In an embodiment the process may include a sputtering step wherein the substrate is placed in a vacuum chamber with a target of the material to be deposited. A plasma is generated in a passive source gas i.e. Argon in the chamber and the ion bombardment is directed towards the target causing material to be sputtered off the target and condense on the chamber walls and the substrate. A strong magnetic field magnetron can be used to concentrate the plasma near the target to increase the deposition rate.

In an embodiment multiple extremely thin 1 to 100 or so atomic layers conformal coatings may be applied onto a collection of the raw carbon nanotubes. The tube lengths may vary from sub microns to centimeters. The conformal coatings may comprise a variety of select metals and or insulators including the glasses disclosed above with aluminum titanium silicon and or related materials including SiOglass TiOglass SiO TiOglass combinations thereof and the like being more preferred.

The coating comprising the carbon nanotube composite may be applied to ultimately produce a high strength metal to metal type bond between one carbon nanotube and another carbon nanotubes and or an interstitial material. The coatings may be applied as one or several layers preferably wherein at least one layer provides the appropriate chemistry to sparsely bond under the anodic bonding conditions or the like to the carbon nanotubes. Other additional layers would preferably provide the interstitial material between the carbon nanotube matrix.

In an alternative method of producing the desired layer the carbon nanotubes may be exposed to a reactive gas at elevated temperatures e.g. using a procedure consistent with Wong et al. Growth of Metal Carbide Nanotubes and Nanorods Chem. Mater. 1996 8 2041 2046 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference. However in the practice of the instant disclosure it is to be understood that one does not want to convert all of the tube to another substance but merely process and or read the tubes so that only sparse bonds of functional groups occur on the surface of a plurality of carbon nanotubes. After the chemical modification of the surface the nanotubes may then be contacted with bridging moiety precursors and or coated with additional materials to supply the interstitial material of the final composite.

The coated and or reaction modified nanotubes may then be aligned as desired and or compressed and placed under anodic bonding conditions to produce the composite of the instant disclosure.

In an embodiment carbon nanotubes having only sparse bonds of bridging moieties and or functional groups comprise in the final composite a wt wt ratio of mass of bridging moiety and or functional group to mass of carbon nanotubes of about 1 10 1 bridging moieties and or functional groups carbon nanotube to about 1 10 1 bridging moiety and or functional group carbon nanotube. Within this range the wt wt ratio of mass of bridging moieties and or functional groups to mass of carbon nanotubes is preferably less than or equal to about 1 10 1 with less than or equal to about 1 10 1 being still more preferred. Further within this range the wt wt ratio of mass of bridging moieties and or functional groups to mass of carbon nanotubes is preferably greater than or equal to about 1 10 1 with greater than or equal to about 1 10 1 being still more preferred.

The mirror supports and or blanks which may become suitable for use as a mirror support of the instant disclosure may have physical and electrical properties which approach those of individual carbon nanotubes. Such properties may be anisotropic consistent with single carbon nanotubes. In an embodiment a layering process may be utilized to take advantage of the anisotropic material properties of the nanotube composites under consideration to produce a composite having isotropic properties. For example the Coefficient of thermal expansion of a composite may be different along the major axis of the aligned tubes versus perpendicular to the major axis of the aligned tubes. Layers of aligned carbon nanotube composites of the instant disclosure oriented essentially orthogonal to one another may result in a composite having isotropic coefficient of thermal expansion.

The instant process may further conclude an alignment step wherein the carbon nanotubes are aligned as discussed herein. This step may come before and or after the carbon nanotubes are coated reacted or the like depending on the parameters of the process.

Accordingly an embodiment of the composite of the instant disclosure may comprise a laminate the laminate comprising a plurality of layers each in physical contact with at least one other layer wherein at least one of the plurality of layers comprises a plurality of carbon nanotubes wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes. In an embodiment at least two of the layers may be aligned one with the other such that non isotropic anisotropic material properties of the individual layers are increased. In an embodiment at least two of the layers may be aligned one with the other such that anisotropic material properties of the individual layers are reduced. The layers of the laminate may also be bonded one to the other through one or more bridging moieties bound to at least two carbon nanotubes.

In an embodiment the composition of the various layers may also be manipulated to either increase or decrease anisotropic properties of the various individual layers of the laminate.

The anodic bonding step is preferably conducted under mechanical pressure heat and an electric field appropriate to each specific anodic bond set of conditions which are dependent on the materials under bond. These conditions will generally be adjusted for a specific application. Also the bonding process may be advantageously modified by the addition of mechanical and or sonic and or electromagnetic energy including thermal to complete complement the bonding process.

In an embodiment an anodic bonding step of the instant disclosure may include the material being mechanically compressed and energetically excited. The energetic excitation may be by conventional means using an appropriate electric field to expedite migration of ions and bonding in the material and across material interfaces to produce a rigid final product or the like.

In an embodiment the mirror support may be produced by first producing a laminate comprising a plurality of aligned carbon nanotubes either interconnected intraconnected or both followed by machining polishing and or otherwise shaping of the laminate to produce the instant mirror support. In another embodiment the steps of producing a mirror support may include forming a laminate over and or onto an optically smooth mould such that the laminate takes on the optical surface of the mould to produce the mirror support wherein the laminate comprises a plurality of carbon nanotubes wherein at least two of the plurality of carbon nanotubes are bonded to each other through a bridging moiety bound to each of the two carbon nanotubes and or a plurality of carbon nanotubes interconnected to at least one additional carbon nanotube through a bridging moiety and or interconnected carbon nanotubes connected through a bridging moiety which form a web of interconnected carbon nanotubes which may be arranged in layers or webs and or layers of webs of interconnected carbon nanotubes interconnected between the layers through bridging moieties.

The mirror support so formed may then be further processed and or manipulated to produce the final mirror support consistent with the intended end use thereof.

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure comprising the composites of the instant disclosure would comprise physical chemical electrical and or other properties which approach those of individual carbon nanotubes. The mirror support according to the instant disclosure would preferably include a low areal density a high thermal conductivity a low coefficient of thermal expansion high stiffness a high strength to weight ratio high reflectivity throughout much of the UV IR and radio spectrum and would be superconductive when cooled below 100 K.

In an embodiment the mirror supports of the instant disclosure preferably include a low areal density preferably less than or equal to about 10 kg m kg per square meter with less than or equal to about 5 kg mbeing preferred with less than or equal to about 4 kg mbeing more preferred with less than or equal to about 3 kg mbeing more preferred with less than or equal to about 2 kg mbeing more preferred with less than or equal to about 1 kg mbeing more preferred with less than or equal to about 0.5 kg mbeing yet still more preferred.

In an embodiment the mirror supports of the instant disclosure preferably possess unique longitudinal along the nanotube s major axis thermal conductivity including expected superconductivity at low absolute temperatures of less than or equal to about 100 K and other properties of individual carbon nanotubes which would far surpass current material technologies substrates capabilities including ULE Ultra Low Expansion ceramic Zerodur Silicon Carbide Berylium and the like. The thermal conductivity of the instant mirror supports would preferably be greater than or equal to about 1 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of steel e.g. greater than or equal to about 12.11 W m K preferably greater than or equal to about 45.0 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of lead e.g. greater than or equal to about 35.3 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of aluminum e.g. greater than or equal to about 237 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of gold e.g. greater than or equal to about 318 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of copper e.g. greater than or equal to about 401 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of silver e.g. greater than or equal to about 429 W m K preferably greater than or equal to the thermal conductivity of diamond e.g. greater than or equal to about 900 W m K preferably greater than or equal to about 2320 W m K . 

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure would preferably have a relatively low lineal coefficient of thermal expansion. Mirror supports of the instant disclosure would also preferably have a relatively low coefficient of volumetric thermal expansion which is equal to 3 times the lineal coefficient of thermal expansion a for the isotropic case. In an embodiment the lineal coefficient of thermal expansion of the mirror support a in 10 K at 20 C. would be less than or equal to about 50 preferably less than or equal to about 40 preferably less than or equal to about 30 preferably less than or equal to about 20 preferably less than or equal to about 10 preferably less than or equal to about 9 preferably less than or equal to about 8 preferably less than or equal to about 7 preferably less than or equal to about 6 preferably less than or equal to about 5 preferably less than or equal to about 4 preferably less than or equal to about 3 preferably less than or equal to about 2 preferably less than or equal to about 1 preferably less than or equal to about 0.5 microinches per K at 20 C. In an embodiment the lineal coefficient of thermal expansion of the mirror support a in 10 K at 20 C. would be less than or equal to the coefficient of thermal expansion of

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure would preferably have a tensile strength of greater than or equal to about 10 Gpa preferably greater than or equal to about 20 Gpa with greater than or equal to about 50 Gpa being more preferred.

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure may have a density of about 1.3 1.4 g cmor less and a specific strength of greater than or equal to about 100 kN m kg preferably greater than or equal to about 1 000 kN m kg with greater than or equal to about 10 000 kN m kg being more preferred.

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure may have a Young s Modulus TPa from about 1 to about 5 a tensile strength GPa from about 10 to about 50 and an elongation at break of greater than or equal to about 5 preferably about 5 to about 20 .

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure may have either metallic and or semi conductor properties which may include having an electrical current density more than 1 000 times greater than silver or copper. Mirror supports of the instant disclosure may further exhibit superconductive properties at relatively low temperatures at less than or equal to about 100 K preferably less than or equal to about 50 K.

Mirror supports of the instant disclosure may have a current transmission rate of greater than about 1 000 watts per meter per K at 20 C. such that the instant mirror support may be able to transmit greater than or equal to about 1 000 watts per meter per K at 20 C. preferably greater than or equal to about 2 000 preferably greater than or equal to about 3 000 preferably greater than or equal to about 4 000 preferably greater than or equal to about 5 000 preferably greater than or equal to about 6 000 watts per meter per K at 20 C. The instant mirror support may further comprise a temperature stability up to about 2800 C. in a vacuum and up to about 750 C. in air.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to preferred embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

