---

title: Prosthesis for cervical and lumbar spine
abstract: The present invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc of the cervical or lumbar spine. The prosthesis provided by the invention is intended for coupled physiological motion within the disc space. The design of the disclosed prosthesis is based on an inlay positioned within the articulation area of two adjacent sliding partners and provides the advantage of comprising a ball and socket shaped articulation area, which enables limitation of rotation around the sagittal, frontal and longitudinal axis. The inlay is protected against luxation due to its position within a recess of one of the adjacent sliding partners. An additional protuberance going through the inlay is protecting against luxation of the adjacent sliding.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09265617&OS=09265617&RS=09265617
owner: 
number: 09265617
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101006
---
The present invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc of the cervical and lumbar spine.

The idea of function retaining artificial replacements for intervertebral discs is younger than replacements of artificial joints of extremities but nonetheless more than 50 years old B ttner Janz Hochschuler McAfee Eds. The Artificial Disc. Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York 2003 . It is a response to biomechanical considerations unsatisfactory results of fusion surgeries of the cervical and lumbar spine disorders adjacent to fused motion spinal segments and the development of new materials with better sliding properties and greater longevity.

By means of function retaining disc implants it is possible to avoid fusion surgery i.e. to maintain to restore or to improve the mobility within the intervertebral disc space. In an in vitro experiment it is possible to achieve a normalization of the biomechanical properties of the spinal motion segment to a large extent through the implantation of an artificial intervertebral disc

Presently many intervertebral function retaining disc implants are clinically used. Total disc replacement on the lumbar spine started with the CHARITE Artificial Disc later followed by the PRODISC the MAVERICK the FLEXICORE the MOBIDISC the KINEFLEX the ACTIV L the XL TDR the DYNARDI the PHYSIO L the INMOTION the M6L the FREEDOM and further disc prostheses. On the cervical spine many function retaining disc implants are known as well as for example the BRYAN the PRESTIGE the PRODISC C the KINEFLEX C the MOBIC the ACTIV C the DISCOCERV the DISCOVER the PCM the CERVICORE the M6C the GALILEO the GRANVIA the NUNEC and the BAGUERA C.

There are different classifications of cervical and lumbar total disc prostheses according to the number of articulation partners and according to biomechanical considerations and direct function related conditions within the cervical as well as the lumbar intervertebral space. At present prostheses with two one or no articulation surface s are used. Depending on the number of functional components and the material the prostheses have biomechanically a fixed or mobile centre of rotation. Whereas prostheses with two sliding surfaces having a mobile centre of rotation are more physiologically designed prostheses with only two functional related partners and one sliding surface are able to better stabilize the spine in multi segmental implantations.

The artificial discs can be implanted via a ventral ventro lateral lateral or dorsal approach. Depending on the approach the artificial discs are constructed with different shape size and means for instruments. Different sizes of disc prostheses base on the size of the prosthetic plates different heights on the height of the prosthetic components and different angles of lordosis on the angles of prosthetic components. The trapezium natural disc shape is primarily responsible for the lordosis of the lumbar and cervical spine further the vertebral bodies contribute to a minor extent to the lordosis. During prosthetic replacement of an intervertebral discs the lordosis should be maintained or reconstructed. A hyperlordotic angle of the operated spinal segment because in the longer run a painful facet joint degeneration can be expected is to avoid. A hyperlordotic disc space is a pre condition for reduced segmental range of motion as well. In that case the target prevention of the adjacent motion segment against disc degeneration can not be fulfilled.

The common material for sliding disc implants is metal in combination with polyethylene or metal to metal. In the meantime partly new materials for total discs are used including for coating of the disc implants to achieve the opportunity for MRI diagnostics as well as better sliding properties of the implants to avoid any revision surgery.

A healthy intervertebral disc allows in its interaction with other elements of a functional spinal unit limited motion at different ranges of motion in extension and flexion as well as in lateral bending to the right and left and in axial rotation. Motion to the front and back is combined with rotational motion and side motion is combined with other motion directions it is a matter of so called coupled motion . The motion amplitudes of healthy intervertebral discs are different with respect to extension bending back and flexion bending forward as well as to the lateral bending to the right and left and axial rotational motion. Although of common basic characteristics there are differences between the motion amplitudes of the cervical and lumbar spine as well.

All prostheses for total disc replacements which are currently clinically used do not cover completely the natural function of a cervical or lumbar motion segment including the natural range of motion. In the long term experience facet joint degeneration and facet joint disease at the same level of disc implantation and or in the neighbourhood may occur as a result of prosthetic disc hyper mobility and connected dysfunction of the facet joints. Abrasion of the facet joints arthritis spondylarthritis may occur with a formation of osteophytes. As a result the irritation of neural structures is possible as well as directly caused pain in the facet joints.

There is so far no evidence that shock absorption is needed within the spine to save tissue or specific anatomical structures the facet joints are usually not horizontally loaded. The main function of shock absorption seems to enable a motion within the disc space because the natural disc does not have typical joint partners like ball and socket. By having the shock absorption of the disc the intervertebral angle can be changed without reducing significantly the disc height at same time.

Some disc prostheses include shock absorption to its function but again without to simulate the segmental physiological range of motion. Postoperatively kyphotic intervertebral disc spaces with dangerous potential for facet joint hyper mobility and facet joint degeneration and disease can be observed. So the original aim of a function retaining disc replacement to achieve a painless or pain free stabilization of the spinal motion segment by implantation of the disc prosthesis is not yet fulfilled in the long run.

The longest experience exists with the Charite prosthesis which is the subject matter of DE 35 29 761 C2 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 specifications. This prosthesis was developed in 1982 by Dr. Schellnack and Dr. B ttner Janz at the Charite University Hospital in Berlin and was later on named SB Charit prosthesis. In 1984 the first surgery took place. The intervertebral disc prosthesis was further developed into model III and has been implanted worldwide DE 35 29 761 C2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 since 1987 it is replaced by the INMOTION with same functional principle of a three part metal to polyethylene prosthesis with two identical spherical articulation surfaces and a mobile centre of rotation.

Due to a simultaneous translation movement of adjacent vertebrae the centre of rotation changes its position constantly in case of inconstant centre of rotation. The prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 shows a construction which differs relative to other available types of prostheses which are build like a ball and socket joint and as a result move around a defined localized centre of rotation. By virtue of the three part assembly of the prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 with two metallic endplates and the interpositioned freely mobile polyethylene sliding core the course of motion of a healthy intervertebral disc of the human spine is mimicked as far as possible however without the exact motion amplitudes in the specific motion directions.

There is a need for an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the cervical and lumbar spine that enables physiological motion of high quality and physiological quantity. The three dimensional range of motion within the intervertebral space should mimic the coupled motion of a natural disc including the physiological translation in the sagittal and frontal view. In case of special anatomical and or biomechanical local conditions or in case of revision surgery a disc prosthesis is sometimes needed which does not allow motion to all directions postoperatively. A disc prosthesis for implantation via a lateral approach is needed as well.

In case of any problem after total disc replacement finally a fusion surgery is often carried out sometimes including removal of the disc prosthesis. Especially in disc prostheses with big anchoring means for fixation on the vertebral body the removal of the implanted and ingrown disc prosthesis leads to the need of bone removal at same time to make the explantation of the disc prosthesis possible. Depending on that issue a combined usable total disc prosthesis is needed for preservation of motion and if needed for fusion surgery according the surgeon s decision pre or intraoperatively to exchange a prosthetic component without removal of the fixed prosthetic plates for having no intervertebral motion postoperatively.

There are only a very few prostheses with luxation protected components known as for example the FLEXICORE. Having a prosthesis which also includes physiological translation and which avoids any luxation of components at e.g. a whiplash after accidents via its desing or construction would be a big new advantage of total disc replacement allowing more sportive activities or even surgeries on pilots.

The present disclosure provides an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc within the cervical or lumbar spine comprising at least one sliding partner adapted to firmly assemble with its outer surface with an upper vertebral body and a further adjacent sliding partner adapted to firmly assemble with its outer surface with a lower vertebral body and the adjacent sliding partners articulate via articulation surfaces on their facing inner sides comprising an articulation area with a convexity on one sliding partner and a concavity on the other sliding partner wherein a first of the adjacent sliding partners has a recess with a bottom surface and four side surfaces wherein the recess is positioned within the convexity or concavity of the first sliding partner and a second of the adjacent sliding partners which articulates with the first sliding partner has a protuberance with four side surfaces and a tip surface wherein the protuberance is arranged within the concavity or convexity of the second sliding partner and an inlay comprises a cut out for acceptance of the protuberance wherein the inlay is positioned within the recess of the first of the adjacent sliding partners and the inlay has an upper convex or concave articulation surface surrounding the cut out having an identical radius of curvature with the convex or concave articulation surface of the first of adjacent sliding partners and a lower concave or convex articulation surface surrounding the cut out having an identical radius of curvature with the concave or convex articulation surface of the bottom of the recess of the first of adjacent sliding partners and four outer side surfaces comprising an outer perimeter of the inlay facing the four side surfaces of the recess of the first of the adjacent sliding partners and four inner side surfaces comprising an inner perimeter of the inlay facing the four side surfaces of the protuberance of the second of the adjacent sliding partners wherein a range of motion between the first and second of the adjacent sliding partners in relation to each other around a sagittal frontal and longitudinal axis is defined by the radius of curvature of the convexity and concavity the size and shape of the recess of the inlay of the cut out and of the protuberance and the size of the space between the side surfaces of the recess and the outer perimeter of the inlay and or between the inner perimeter of the inlay and the side surfaces of the protuberance.

At least one articulation surface can be partly or completely surrounded by an edge to maximize the motion limiting contact area at final range of motion to each direction in the sagittal and frontal axis.

The edge surrounding at least one articulation surface shall be made of a flexible material enabling soft limitation at a final range of motion to each direction in the sagittal and frontal axis.

The shape of the recess of the outer and inner perimeter of the inlay and of the protuberance shall be rectangular round cylindrical pyramidal conical including a truncated pyramid and conus or a combination of the afore mentioned shapes. The shape of the side surfaces of the recess the shape of the side surfaces comprising the outer and inner perimeter of the inlay and the shape of the side surfaces of the protuberance shall be plane curved angled or round or a combination thereof.

Convexity and corresponding concavity can have a spherical cylindrical torus like helical and or conical shape or a combination thereof and convexity and corresponding concavity can have identical or different radii of curvature.

It is further intended that size and shape of the recess and of the outer perimeter of the inlay can be constructed in such a manner that rotation of adjacent sliding partners around either the sagittal or frontal axis is possible. Size and shape of the recess and of the outer and inner perimeter of the inlay can also be constructed in such a manner that additionally a limited rotation around the longitudinal axis is possible.

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure size and shape of the inner perimeter of the inlay and of the protuberance can be constructed in such a manner that rotation of adjacent sliding partners around either the sagittal or frontal axis is possible. Size and shape of the inner perimeter of the inlay and of the protuberance can also be constructed in such a manner that additionally a limited rotation around the longitudinal axis is possible.

It is further intended that the shape of the recess and the outer perimeter of the inlay and or the shape of the inner perimeter of the inlay and the protuberance may allow unlimited rotation around the longitudinal axis.

Two opposing side surfaces of the protuberance can be in a form fitting manner in contact with two opposing side surfacess of the inner perimeter of the inlay and or two opposing side surfaces of the outer perimeter of the inlay can be in a form fitting manner in contact with two opposing side surfaces of the recess.

The tip surface of the protuberance may be concave or convex shaped with a radius of curvature corresponding to the concave or convex curvature of the bottom surface of the recess of the first of the adjacent sliding partners enabling the articulation of tip and bottom surface.

The tip surface of the protuberance may also be articulating with a surface of a hole arranged below the bottom surface of the recess and the tip surface of the protuberance may have a radius of curvature corresponding to the facing radius of curvature of the bottom surface of the hole.

It is intended that each sliding partner and or the inlay comprise the same or different material or are coated with the same or different material.

Each sliding partner and or the inlay may be constructed in one piece or firmly but reversibly assembled of at least two pieces.

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure the inlay and or at least one of the sliding partners or a part of it can be made of a flexible material to damp an intervertebral shock or applied load.

The upper and or lower sliding partner may have on their outer surfaces for assembly with a vertebral body at least one cross shaped anchor optionally in combination with anchoring teeth.

It is further intended that the cross shaped anchor and or the outer surfaces of the upper and lower sliding partner for assembly with a vertebral body can be means or have means for an instrument to hold the prosthesis during implantation and explantation.

In a further embodiment of the present disclosure a middle sliding partner with an upper and lower articulation surface is arranged between the inner sides of the upper and lower sliding partner with the upper articulation surface of the middle sliding partner articulating with the articulation surface of the facing inner side of the upper sliding partner and the lower articulation surface of the middle sliding partner articulating with the articulation surface of the facing inner side of the lower sliding partner resulting in an upper and a lower articulation area wherein an inlay is arranged within upper and or lower articulation area and an articulation area with inlay is constructed as specified above. The articulation areas above and below the middle sliding partner may be constructed equally or different.

The prosthesis provided by the invention is intended for primary total disc replacement enabling coupled physiological motion within the disc space between adjacent vertebrae via a ventral ventro lateral or lateral approach. The prosthesis is also intended for revision surgeries after former function retaining disc implantations by insertion of a complete new disc prosthesis or by replacement or exchange of the inlay if needed without for example lateral bending to the right and or left postoperatively or with exclusion of any postoperative motion.

The inlay of a prosthesis according to the present disclosure is protected against luxation due to its position within a recess of one of the adjacent sliding partners. An additional protuberance going through the inlay is protecting against luxation of the adjacent sliding partners.

A prosthesis according to the invention comprises basically at least three parts or components namely two sliding partners and one inlay. The arrangement of a middle sliding partner between the upper an lower sliding partner results in a prosthesis with four or five parts namely three sliding partners and one or two inlays depending on the arrangement of an inlay within the upper and or the lower articulation area.

With respect to the description and depiction of the presented invention an articulation area comprises facing articulation surfaces of adjacent sliding partners which come into contact or articulate with each other. Thus an articulation area comprises at least two articulation surfaces of adjacent sliding partners. Within the meaning of the present disclosure the parts of the prosthesis articulate via their convex and concave surfaces comprising the convex and concave parts of the sliding partners the upper and lower side of the inlay as well as the tip surface of the protuberance and the bottom surface of the recess or the surface of a hole below the bottom surface. The term articulation surface is synonymous with the term sliding surface.

The side surfaces of the recess the side surfaces of the outer and inner perimeter of the inlay and the side surfaces of the protuberance do not articulate within the meaning of the present disclosure although they are movable and get in contact or may slide onto each other. These surfaces and the spaces between them are used to determine the range of motion of the prosthesis in order to allow or prevent rotation around either the sagittal frontal or longitudinal axis. So for example rotation around the frontal axis namely lateral bending to right and left can be excluded when at same time rotation around the sagittal axis as extension and flexion movement and around the longitudinal axis as axial rotation movement is still allowed in a physiological range of motion. A prosthesis allowing unlimited rotation around the longitudinal axis is also within the scope of the disclosure. In order to achieve no limitation of motion around the longitudinal axis the shape of the side surface of at least the recess and of the outer perimeter of the inlay or of the inner perimeter of the inlay and of the protuberance has to be circular wherein all adjacent side surfaces can have a circular shape as well.

Two dimensional surface contacts refer to at least two surfaces that come in contact as they have corresponding shapes so that not only punctual or linear contacts take place. This means that a surface does not have to be plane but shall also have a curved form or a combination of plane and curved as long as a two dimensional contact of the surfaces will be achieved at rotation around the respective axis including at maximum possible rotation.

The three spatial axes shall be defined as sagittal rotational axis for the extension and flexion function within the disc space going from the front to the back through the body or vice versa. The rotation around the sagittal axis is in the dorsal and ventral dorso ventral direction. The bending function to the right and left side of the disc space is performed around the frontal rotational axis going from the right to the left of the body or vice versa. The longitudinal axis is for the right left axial rotation meaning the rotation around the vertical axis running in cranio caudal direction of the body. This rotation is also designated as axial rotation .

With respect to the present invention the three cutting planes shall be defined by the following terms A sagittal section or a sagittal view describes a view from lateral because the cutting plane runs vertically from the front to the back or vice versa.

The term frontal is synonymous with ventral and anterior and the term back with dorsal and posterior . A frontal section or the frontal view is a vertical section from the right lateral side to the left lateral side of a body or vice versa

The term lateral stands for sidewise and latero lateral means from one side to the other side from the right to the left or vice versa. Sagittal and frontal sections are vertical sections as they both run in a vertical plane from cranial to caudal of the body and disc space or vice versa but rotated at 90 degrees to each other. A view in the transversal plane or a transversal section shows a top view onto the prosthesis and the cutting plane of the endplate of a vertebral body is a horizontal section.

Both a cutting plane or a rotation axis can be located or shifted centrally right or left laterally dorsally ventrally caudally or cranially. Additional cutting planes and rotation axes can be angled to each other and do not necessarily have to be perpendicular to each other.

The term corresponding with respect to articulating sliding surfaces or side surfaces designates not only congruent convexities and concavities or other facing sliding surfaces but also convex and concave or otherwise shaped surfaces with tolerances between each other thus designating articulation and other sliding surfaces which are not completely congruent. The chosen materials and shapes can cause such deviations or tolerances regarding the articulation or other facing and sliding surfaces of corresponding articulating and sliding components on the one hand. On the other hand it may also be intended that articulating and other facing and sliding surfaces are not totally congruent for instance in order to define directly the maximum possible or a limited rotation or motion of the articulating sliding partners and other parts of the prosthesis or to allow abrasion to be transported out of the articulating surfaces and side surfaces. Such tolerances may also be useful to transport body fluids or other material through the surfaces.

Since the number of the three axes of rotation corresponds to the minimal number of the three articulation directions the prosthesis according to the present invention provides the possibility to define in the meaning of allowing or preventing the rotation around each axis by the interaction of the side surfaces of the recess with the surfaces of the outer perimeter of the inlay and or the surfaces of the inner perimeter of the inlay with the side surfaces of the protuberance. Both interactions can be used to define the rotation around the sagittal frontal and longitudinal axis but for a limitation of rotation around the longitudinal axis the use of the interaction between the side surfaces of the recess and the side surfaces of the outer perimeter of the inlay is more suitable. Thus the shape or design of the mentioned parts of the prosthesis according to the disclosure has only to be adapted to the physiological conditions with respect to one of a dorso ventral latero lateral or right left and craniocaudal rotational direction under consideration of a combined or simultaneous translation in the horizontal plane or section.

An edge as per the invention indicates an area located between the outer rim of the respective sliding partner and the articulation area. An edge surrounds the articulation area namely convexity and concavity completely or partly. The edges of the respective sliding partners run horizontally and or at an incline and have a plane or curved surface. It is essential for the shape of the surfaces of the edges that during terminal inclination of the sliding partners towards each other a gap closure across a maximum possible area between the edges of the sliding partners is achieved. In case that the edges do not have a plane surface they shall have in any case to be designed in such a way that during gap closure a maximum maximal possible two dimensional contact arises between them.

An edge does otherwise not necessarily directly begin next to the articulation surface of a sliding partner. It is also within the scope of the present disclosure that there is a transition area or even a gap between articulation surface and surrounding edge.

The contact of edges surrounding at least two facing articulation surfaces shall also not be understood as articulation within the meaning of the present disclosure. Such contacts although they might comprise sliding and result in a limitation of the range of motion of the particular sliding partners along at least one of the three axes do not contribute or take place within an articulation area according to the disclosure.

A spherical ball and socket joint has no limitation regarding the vertical or axial rotation with respect to the two parts of the joint but such a joint provides good premises for an optimal uptake of pressure during a gap closure of two dimensional facing surfaces of two adjacent sliding partners. The present disclosure provides a design for a ball and socket joint without an unlimited rotation around the vertical resp. longitudinal axis. The arrangement of an inlay into a recess of the convexity or concavity between two sliding partners permits the limitation of axial but also of sagittal and frontal rotation.

The design of the disclosed prosthesis makes use of the advantages of a spherical ball and socket shaped articulation area but is not restricted to such a shape of the convexity and concavity. Another advantage of a prosthesis according to the disclosure is that the inlay is protected against luxation due to its position within a recess of convexity or concavity respectively. It has to be noted that a spherical protuberance is not necessarily a hemisphere but can be derived from a hemisphere by vertically cutting it at two opposing sides or by stretching a hemisphere along one axis.

A prosthesis according to the disclosure enables a coupled motion around at least two of the above defined axes wherein the degree of motion shall be adapted to the average physiological range of motion within the corresponding segment of the cervical or lumbar spine. The shape of the corresponding limiting elements of the prosthesis shall especially take the facet joints and their degree of maximum range of motion into account in order to prevent non natural abrasion degeneration and disease of the facet joints.

In order to achieve the already mentioned and intended two dimensional surface contacts the edges which surround the articulation area play an important role. The limitation of extension flexion and lateral bending to the right and left may also be limited by surface contacts of edges of adjacent sliding partners even in combination with the shape of the corresponding components of the articulation area namely the shape and size of the convexity the concavity the inlay and the protuberance. It is also intended that the edges may comprise soft or flexible material to fulfil such a function.

A further non limiting advantage of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the disclosure is that in certain embodiments in addition to its approximated angles of motion which come close to the natural degrees of motion the rotation is limited by contact areas of the side surfaces of the recess and the outer perimeter of the inlay and or of the the side surfaces of the inner perimeter of the inlay and the side surfaces of the protuberance.

The present invention provides an intervertebral disc prosthesis that can be adapted on segmental pre conditions by choosing a sliding partner with an appropriate recess an appropriate inlay and a fitting protuberance of the corresponding sliding partner from a set of existing parts or components.

It is further intended that the articulating and or side surfaces of the sliding partners may be firmly but reversible fixed to the sliding partners. In case of revision surgery at least the upper and lower sliding partner can stay in place but the inlay can be changed for further motion retaining or limiting function or if needed for fusion of the spinal segment. If the revision surgery is carried out via a lateral or ventro lateral approach new parts may be implanted for allowing motion to dorsal and ventral direction as well as craniocaudal axial rotation but for allowing no lateral bending to avoid an angled disc space in the frontal view.

The prosthesis according to the invention allows also to prevent any motion or rotation of the three parts to each other by choosing only form fitting components so that there is no space between recess and inlay and the cut out of the inlay is in a form fitting contact with all four side surfaces of the protuberance. Such a blocking of any motion can be easily achieved by simply exchanging the inlay.

In case that the outer sides of the upper and or lower sliding partner are angled in a lateral view a prosthesis according to the disclosure is suitable for the equalisation of a lordosis of the cervical or lumbar spine. In case there is an angle of the outer sides of the upper and or lower sliding partner in a frontal view a prosthesis according the disclosure is suitable for equalisation of a scoliotic spinal lumbar or cervical segement.

It is also intended that the centre of rotation can be shifted dorsally for up to 3 mm in order to adapt the centre of rotation to the physiological situation or to compensate a dysfunction within the respective intervertebral space.

The sagittal section view in shows that small gaps are situated between the side surfaces of the protuberance and the corresponding facing side surfaces of the inlay . Furthermore the concavity of the upper sliding partner the upper and lower sides of the inlay the tip of the protuberance the convexity of the lower sliding partner and the bottom of the recess all have curved surfaces. Thus there is the possibility of a limited rotational movement around the sagittal axis between the upper and the lower sliding partner corresponding to extension and flexion of the spinal unit where the prosthesis is implanted. Furthermore the sagittal section view in shows that the outer sides of the upper and lower sliding partners are slightly angled providing an equalisation of the lordosis of the disc space. Anteriorly the prosthesis is slightly higher than posteriorly. Moreover shows that the centre of rotation for extension and flexion is placed posteriorly towards the physiological centre of rotation of the functional spinal unit.

The frontal section view in shows a similar assembly. In this embodiment however gaps are located between the side surfaces of the outer perimeter of the inlay and the respective facing side surfaces of the recess . Thus there is also the possibility of a limited rotational movement around the sagittal axis between the upper and the lower sliding partner corresponding to lateral bending of the spinal unit where the prosthesis is implanted.

The aforementioned rotational movements are limited by the embodiment of the prosthesis. Obviously the different rotational movements are stopped as soon as a the protuberance and the inlay get in touch with each other b the inlay gets in contact with the side surfaces of the recess or c the edge of the upper sliding partner and the edge of the lower sliding partner contact each other.

As can be seen in as well as in and the upper side of the inlay the convexity of the inner side of the lower sliding partner and the concavity of the inner side of the upper sliding partner have the same radius of curvature. In fact all three aforementioned surfaces lie on the same sphere Sas indicated by the dotted circles in and . Similarly the lower side of the inlay the bottom of the recess and the tip of the protuberance have the same radius of curvature. All three surfaces are located on the same sphere Sas indicated by the dotted circles in and . Obviously Shas a smaller radius than S but both spheres have the same centre point.

In summary during extension and flexion the upper sliding partner rotates around both the inlay and the lower sliding partner compare and . In contrast during right and left lateral bending both the upper sliding partner and the inlay rotate around the lower sliding partner compare .

In a similar construction is depicted. Here the outer perimeter of the conical inlay is shaped like the frustum of a cone and the shape of the recess in the lower sliding partner has been adapted accordingly. As before this construction does not limit the axial rotation.

