---

title: Visual outage management tool
abstract: Described herein are systems related to a visual tool for providing a dynamic and accessible collaborative environment during a production outage or network downtime. An outage management tool comprising a server application tool receiving and storing monitoring data related to an operation of a network and application-level components of the network, wherein the monitoring data includes outage information corresponding to one of the network and the application-level components, and a visualization tool generating an interactive representation of the network including the outage information, the visualization tool and generating, in response to a request, an adjusted interactive representation of the network including application-level components affected by an outage and event traffic related to the outage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726103&OS=08726103&RS=08726103
owner: AT & T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 08726103
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101207
---
The terms downtime and network outage are used to refer to periods when a communication system is unavailable. Downtime or outage duration refers to a period of time that a system fails to provide or perform its functions. The causes of a network outage include failures in various network components such as hardware failures e.g. servers and other physical equipment software failures e.g. logic controlling equipment interconnecting equipment failures e.g. cables routers etc. wireless transmission failures e.g. antennas satellites etc. and capacity failures e.g. exceeding system limits .

Typically it is the responsibility of the network designers to ensure that a network outage does not happen. However if a network outage does occur a network monitoring system may reduce the effects of the outage by detecting and restoring the network as quickly as possible. The restoration of the network generally requires involvement from several individuals and teams of individuals including technical engineers management personnel executives etc.

Within the field of telecommunications mission critical applications interfaces middleware components and downstream systems are continually changing. With these changes come increased difficulty and challenges for engineers and support team members to stay up to date with the technical picture and their understandings of related components involved in the early stages of the outage and throughout critical triage activities. In a time when minutes equals millions communication and collaboration amongst telecommunication personnel during a network outage is antiquated and inefficient. Currently there exists a critical knowledge and communication gap between interested parties e.g. engineers executives etc. due to a lack of a complete picture of precisely what is occurring during the outage as well as the impact created by the outage.

Described herein are systems related to a visual tool for providing a dynamic and accessible collaborative environment during a production outage or network downtime. An outage management tool comprising a server application tool receiving and storing monitoring data related to an operation of a network and application level components of the network wherein the monitoring data includes outage information corresponding to one of the network and the application level components and a visualization tool generating an interactive representation of the network including the outage information the visualization tool and generating in response to a request an adjusted interactive representation of the network including application level components affected by an outage and event traffic related to the outage.

Further described herein is a non transitory computer readable storage medium including a set of instructions that are executable by a processor the set of instructions being operable at least to receive and store by a server application tool monitoring data related to an operation of a network and application level components of the network wherein the monitoring data includes outage information corresponding to one of the network and the application level components and to generate by a visualization tool an interactive representation of the network including the outage information the visualization tool and generating in response to a request an adjusted interactive representation of the network including application level components affected by the outage and event traffic related to the outage.

The exemplary embodiments described herein may be further understood with reference to the following description and the related appended drawings wherein like elements are provided with the same reference numerals. The exemplary embodiments are related to a visual tool for providing a dynamic and accessible collaborative environment during a production outage or network downtime such as a P1 production outage.

During a network outage communication across different levels of personnel may rely on chat rooms and conference calls in order to diagnose and troubleshoot the outage. However these procedures are neither effective nor efficient enough to service a mission critical production outage such as a P1 outage. Consequently status updates are continuously in outdated and or redundant resulting in technical engineers being inefficiently informed as to the depth and breadth of an outage. Timely communication and collaboration amongst technical engineers and between other levels of personnel can drastically improve the understanding and analysis of the outage as well as the restoration of the involved components and networks. Chat rooms and conference calls alone are simply not effective enough to suitably address and resolve mission critical applications and systems when added minutes in response time costs millions in revenue and resources.

As will be described below the exemplary embodiments are related to a socially collaborative software application for articulating the scope of a production outage by providing a live continually updating e.g. real time and visual representation of various network components involved in the outage. In other words this visual tool creates a robust user friendly highly interactive production monitoring system and communication tool. An exemplary software application may be referred to as a visual outage management VOM tool. Accordingly the VOM tool may allow concerned parties e.g. outage attendees technical engineers management and executive team members etc. to effectively understand communicate and contribute to resolving a production outage. Furthermore an exemplary VOM tool may provide a public dashboard of sorts to the benefit outage attendees of all skill levels. The socially collaborative environment of the VOM tool may differentiate this visual tool from any other network diagnostic mapping systems used during network outages.

The VOM tool helps bridge the gap between technical managerial and executive levels during a critical outage call. The 3 dimensional 3D representation may be provided through various software components such as visual battlefield plug ins. One skilled in the art would understand that a plug in may refer to a set of software components that adds specific capabilities to a larger software application thereby allowing for customizations to the functionality of the application. Accordingly the visual battlefield plug ins described herein may facilitate improved focus and communication in order to allow for a more effective utilization of time effort and resources during this critical outage period. Therefore the VOM tool may greatly reduce the mean time to repair MTTR while providing significant cost avoidance opportunities. It should be noted that the exemplary VOM tool may be leveraged using existing production components and documentations.

The VOM Server Application may collect data from production monitoring tools e.g. Patrol Introscope Sitescope etc. while monitoring one or more mission critical applications . In addition further data may be received and imported into the VOM tool from components such as visualization systems e.g. IBM ILOG JViews etc. and the other existing components . According to exemplary embodiments the VOM Server Application may include a VOM Event Messaging Framework to facilitate event traffic to and from the production monitoring tools and the VOM Client Application and thus the user. Event traffic may include information such as network status application level component status affected components impacted applications outage issues outage causes user impact details current tasks being performed prior task performed task progress individual technicians and other personnel involved in the outage etc.

The VOM Server Application may also include data collection plug ins event filter logic and a VOM repository . The VOM data collector plug ins may be described as individual sub modules corresponding to each of the components of the monitoring tools that interact with the VOM Server Application . For instance these plug ins may interact with the individual monitoring tools at an application programming interface API level utilizing a monitoring technology such as Java Management Extensions JMX . The VOM repository may include a library of visual components that are associated with various available outage battlefields. Accordingly the VOM repository may include data regarding outage details historical information metrics key learning summaries etc.

Once monitoring data has been collected and retained by the VOM Server Application of the VOM tool the data may be processed and transferred to the VOM Client Application . The VOM Client Application may include an embedded visual battlefield plug in a primary user interface and a 2D data connector framework . The 2D data connector framework may enable fast double buffered updates to the visual battlefield plug in via data sources. As will be described in greater detail below the visual battlefield plug in may be defined and constructed from components of the visualization systems specifically a JViews Diagrammer .

As noted above the visualization systems interacting with the VOM tool may be a plurality of IBM ILOG JViews. For instances the visualization systems may include a diagrammer e.g. JViews Diagrammer a symbol editor e.g. JViews Symbol Editor and custom palettes e.g. JViews Palette .

The JViews Diagrammer may assist in the creation of visual dashboards and or diagrams within the visual battlefield plug in . These dashboards and diagrams may include visual representations of network or application level components. Furthermore the dashboards and diagrams may also include data connection stubs to allow data to access from various data sources e.g. XML flat files databases etc. . Once these dashboards and diagrams are defined with data sources production outages may be visual represented as battlefields wherein dashboards and diagrams correspond to specific outage scenarios.

The JViews Symbol Editor may be defined as a utility for creating visual symbols e.g. Java 2D symbols that represent various network and application level components. Accordingly these symbols may be utilized by the JViews Diagrammer in the creation of visual production outage battlefield scenarios as a part of the VOM user interface .

The JViews Palette may be defined as a library of symbols that are created using the The JViews Symbol Editor . The palette of symbols may be imported directly into the JViews Diagrammer in order to construct dashboards and diagrams for exportation and use by a host of applications of the VOM tool .

Through the use of each of these visualization tools the visual battlefield plug in may quickly articulate the scope of an outage by generating a real time interactive 3D visual representation of the outage components. This visual representation may be continuously updated and displayed to the user via the user interface as a visual battlefield.

The VOM reporting tool may generate various report of the monitoring data wherein the report includes post outage metrics diagnosis data and resolution data related to an outage. For instance detailed reports may be generated from the collected and processed data such as but not limited to the monitoring data diagnostic data resolution data visual plug in data customizable symbols user input etc.

According to the exemplary embodiments the exemplary VOM tool may provide all levels of personnel with the ability to manage and monitor a production outage at a more meaningful and useful level of detail while also helping to facilitate communication and collaboration. In addition technical engineers will benefit by having better insight into the underlying scope of the outage as well as the progress being made. Using information collected by the VOM tool the tool may also generate reports on based on the events and communications occurring before during and after an outage.

The monitored data may include statistics related to memory heap sizes transaction flow rates etc. Accordingly the VOM tool may continuously collect and process monitoring data whether or not an outage is present e.g. before during and after an outage event . This exemplary screen view may be displayed to a user via the user interface thereby providing the user with access to each of these plug ins as well as their respective monitoring data.

It should be noted that the exemplary method may stored as a set of instructions or software code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a computer memory. Accordingly this set of instructions may be executable by a processor and may be operable at least to perform the steps of the exemplary method depicted in .

Beginning with step the VOM tool may receive and store monitoring data related to an operation of a network and its application level components. For instance upon processing the monitoring data the VOM tool may reveal that one or more mission critical applications are down or otherwise malfunctioning. Accordingly this malfunctioning application may lead to further downstream applications fails to function and thus an outage.

In step the VOM tool may generate an interactive representation of the received monitoring data as well as the network and its components. The interactive representation may identify the specific application that is causing the outage and magnify the monitoring data of this application.

In step the VOM tool may display the interactive representation of the data to a user. In addition the VOM tool may display details of all parties e.g. teams and individuals involved with the resolution of the outage. Furthermore the VOM tool may receive user input such a request for more detailed information on a specific component of the data. Accordingly the VOM tool may provide the additional data upon user request.

In step the VOM tool may receive updated monitoring data. As noted above the VOM tool may display real time monitoring data of the network and its components. As information related to the network set up and or performance of these components change the VOM tool may receive and process these changes.

In step the VOM tool may adjust the interactive representation based on the updated monitoring data. Accordingly the VOM tool may provide an up to date representation of the network and its components to all users via the user interface .

In step the reporting tool of the VOM tool may generate detailed reports on all collected and processed data such as but not limited to the monitoring data diagnostic data resolution data visual plug in data customizable symbols user input etc.

According to the exemplary embodiments the VOM and the corresponding method may allow for efficient communication and collaboration amongst all levels of personnel involved in an outage. As an outage goes through various stages of diagnosis and different work tasks are performed to resolve the issues the VOM tool provides a cohesive glue necessary to keep all attendees technical managerial etc. on the same page. The VOM tool may provide visual status updates component level attendance an accessible HUD history tracking and reporting relative health and process details as well as metrics and key learnings for post outage analysis and consumption. Furthermore since the VOM tool operates with existing components in a network the VOM tool provides this capability without the high cost of large enterprise applications having limited capabilities.

From a broader perspective the VOM tool allows for a reduction in mean time to repair MTTR during a critical outage. Furthermore the VOM tool may provide useful and insightful monitoring metrics and charts graphs and reports that result in improved decision making. The monitoring data may be tracked during all stages of operation e.g. before during and after an outage . Thus the VOM tool may effectively contribute to the achievement of increased clarity and understanding as to the scope and severity of the outage for all outage attendees.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claimed and their equivalents.

