---

title: Detection of duress condition at a communication device
abstract: A communication or computing device having a touchscreen interface is adapted to detect a duress condition upon user access through input of a gesture-based password or authentication code. One or more force sensors are provided for detection of force applied at the touchscreen surface, and interoperate with processing elements to detect input of a gesture-based password through contact at the touchscreen interface; determine that force detected by at least one of the force sensors during input of the password exceeds a predefined threshold; and compares the input password with previously stored information to determine that the input password substantially corresponds to the previously stored information. If the input password substantially corresponds to the previously stored information and the detected pressure exceeds the threshold, a duress condition is determined for the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536978&OS=08536978&RS=08536978
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08536978
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101119
---
The present application relates generally to detection of a duress situation at a communication or data processing device.

Computing and communication devices such as smartphones tablets and the like often store sensitive or confidential information. To protect such information as well as to prevent unauthorized access to functions on the device the device may be protected with a password PIN or other security code or value. To access the device s functions and or information the user must provide the security code or value for example via an input interface provided at the device and may optionally be required to provide other credentials such as a digital certificate which may be accessed from a separate smart card or other source. Typically the security code or value is only known to the authorized user if another party lacking this information obtains the device he or she will not be able to access the functions or information. An attacker seeking to gain access to the communication device may attempt to gain possession of the password by engaging in different methods of password cracking such as dictionary attacks or may resort to subterfuge to trick the user into revealing the password. In some circumstances however an attacker may use physical force or other coercion to force the authorized user to enter the security code or value on his or her own device within the attacker s presence so that the attacker can gain access to the functions or information.

The methods and systems described herein provide for the detection of a duress condition at a communication or computing device based on the user s input of a security value or code generally referred to herein as a password . The security value or code may take the form of a series of characters a passphrase access code secret word personal identification number PIN key value and the like and may further be represented by user actions and gestures for example through the input of a gesture or symbol at a touchscreen interface of a device. The term password as used herein generally refers to all such security values or codes as well as other types of gesture based or other input as explained herein such as a symbol or gesture traced or drawn on the surface of the touchscreen of a touchscreen device .

In accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein there is provided a communication device comprising a touchscreen interface configured to detect contact applied at a touchscreen surface one or more force sensors configured to detect force applied at the touchscreen surface at least one processor in communication with the touchscreen interface and the one or more force sensors the at least one processor being configured to detect contact indicative of input of a password at the touchscreen interface detect by the one or more force sensors a force of said contact above a predetermined threshold and identify a duress condition at the communication device upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password.

In an aspect of the above communication device the password comprises a symbol password. In a further aspect the symbol password comprises at least one of multitouch gestures a plurality of segments and at least one disconnected touch.

In a further aspect of the communication device the at least one processor is further configured to initiate a duress handling procedure upon identifying the duress condition. In yet a further aspect the at least one processor is further configured to set a duress flag upon detection that the force of said contact is above the predetermined threshold and to identify said duress condition upon determining that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password when said duress flag is set. In still a further aspect the at least one processor is further configured to set said duress flag when said force above the predetermined threshold is detected during a portion of the duration of the contact indicative of said input of the password. In yet another aspect the at least one processor is configured to determine that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password when the input password matches the previously stored password within a predefined tolerance.

The embodiments described herein further provide that in the above communication device said force of said contact is above the predetermined threshold when an average applied force during said contact is above the predetermined threshold.

In another aspect the one or more force sensors comprises one or more piezoelectric sensors. In still a further aspect the communication device comprises a mobile communication device.

The embodiments herein also provide a communication device comprising an input interface configured to detect contact one or more force sensors configured to detect force applied at the input interface at least one processor in communication with the input interface and the one or more force sensors the at least one processor being configured to detect contact indicative of input of a password at the input interface detect by the one or more force sensors a force of said contact above a predetermined threshold during said contact and identify a duress condition at the communication device upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password.

In one aspect of the communication device the input interface comprises a touchscreen interface. In another aspect the password comprises a symbol password. In a further aspect the input interface comprises a physical keyboard.

In still another aspect the at least one processor is further configured to initiate a duress handling procedure upon identifying the duress condition. In yet another aspect the at least one processor is further configured to set a duress flag upon determining that the force detected by the one or more force sensors during said contact exceeds the predetermined threshold and to identify said duress condition upon determining that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password when said duress flag is set. Further another aspect provides that the at least one processor is configured to determine that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password when the input password matches the previously stored password within a predefined tolerance. In addition the communication device may comprise a mobile communication device.

There is also provided a method of detecting a duress condition at a communication device comprising a touchscreen interface the method comprising detecting contact indicative of input of a password at the touchscreen interface detecting a force of said contact above a predetermined threshold and identifying a duress condition at the communication device upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password.

In another aspect of the above method the password comprises a symbol password. Further the symbol password may comprise at least one of multitouch gestures a plurality of segments and at least one disconnected touch.

In yet another aspect the method further comprises initiating a duress handling procedure upon identifying the duress condition. In a further aspect the method further comprises setting a duress flag upon detecting said force of said contact and identifying the duress condition comprises identifying said duress condition upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password when said duress flag is set. In still a further aspect the duress flag is set upon detection of said force during a portion of a duration of said contact or the duress flag is set upon detection of said force during an entirety of a duration of said contact.

In another aspect of the above method detecting said force comprises detecting an average applied force during said contact above the predetermined threshold.

In still another aspect the one or more force sensors comprises one or more piezoelectric sensors. Further another aspect of the method provides that said determining that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password comprises determining that the input password matches the previously stored password within a predefined tolerance.

The embodiments herein also provide a method of detecting a duress condition at a communication device comprising an input interface the method comprising detecting contact indicative of input of a password at the input interface detecting a force of said contact above a predetermined threshold and identifying a duress condition at the communication device upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password.

In an aspect of this method the input interface comprises a touchscreen interface. In a further aspect the password comprises a symbol password.

In a further aspect the method further comprises initiating a duress handling procedure upon identifying the duress condition. In yet a further aspect the method further comprises setting a duress flag upon detecting said force of said contact and wherein identifying the duress condition comprises identifying said duress condition upon determining that the input password corresponds to a previously stored password when said duress flag is set. In yet another aspect the duress flag is set upon detection of said force during either a portion of a duration of said contact or an entirety of a duration of said contact.

In yet another aspect of this method said determining that the input password corresponds to the previously stored password comprises determining that the input password matches the previously stored password within a predefined tolerance.

The embodiments herein also provide a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium which may be non transitory or physical storing program code which when executed at a communication device comprising a touchscreen configured to detect contact at the touchscreen and one or more force sensors configured to detect an applied force at the touchscreen causes the communication device to carry out the methods described herein.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented on a communication device such as that illustrated in . Throughout the specification terms such as may and can are used interchangeably and use of any particular term should not be construed as limiting the scope or requiring experimentation to implement the claimed subject matter or embodiments described herein. The communication device may be a mobile device with two way communication and advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The communication device can also have voice communication capabilities. Although the embodiments herein specifically refer to a communication device the teachings herein may be applied to any appropriate communication or data processing device whether portable or wirelessly enabled or not including without limitation cellular phones smartphones wireless organizers personal digital assistants desktop computers terminals laptops tablets handheld wireless communication devices notebook computers and the like. Thus the communication and computing devices contemplated herein may have different principal functions and form factors.

The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the communication device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with one or more of Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS EDGE or UMTS and optionally other network communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Other wireless networks can also be associated with the communication device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that can be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks third generation 3G networks like EDGE HSPA HSPA EVDO and UMTS or fourth generation 4G networks such as LTE and LTE Advanced. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. The mobile device may be provided with additional communication subsystems such as the wireless LAN WLAN communication subsystem also shown in . The WLAN communication subsystem may operate in accordance with a known network protocol such as one or more of the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE. The communication subsystem may be separate from or integrated with the communication subsystem or with the short range communications module . The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display interface an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone the short range communications and other device subsystems . The communication device may also be provided with an accelerometer which may be used to detect gravity or motion induced forces and their direction. Detection of such forces applied to the device may be processed to determine a response of the device such as an orientation of a graphical user interface displayed on the display interface in response to a determination of the current orientation of which the device .

Some of the subsystems of the communication device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display interface and the keyboard can be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

A rendering circuit is included in the device . When a user specifies that a data file is to be viewed on the display interface the rendering circuit analyzes and processes the data file for visualization on the display interface . Rendering data files originally optimized or prepared for visualization on large screen displays on a portable electronic device display often requires additional processing prior to visualization on the small screen portable electronic device displays. This additional processing may be accomplished by the rendering engine . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the rendering engine can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof and can comprise a dedicated image processor and associated circuitry or can be implemented within main processor .

The communication device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device . To identify a subscriber the communication device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the communication device and to personalize the communication device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the communication device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services can include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services can include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM card can store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The communication device may be a battery powered device including a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the communication device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells can provide the power to the communication device .

The communication device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which can alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the communication device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the communication device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the communication device or some other suitable storage element in the communication device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages can be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the communication device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the communication device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items can be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the communication device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The communication device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the communication device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the communication device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the communication device to allow the communication device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the communication device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the communication device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the communication device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the communication device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the communication device and can provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications can enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the communication device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the communication device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path can for example be used to load an encryption key onto the communication device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication. The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the communication device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the communication device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the communication device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display interface or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display interface and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem can include devices such as a touchscreen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard may be an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards can also be used. A composed item can be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . It will be appreciated that if the display interface comprises a touchscreen then the auxiliary subsystem may still comprise one or more of the devices identified above.

For voice communications the overall operation of the communication device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display interface can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The communication subsystem component may include a receiver transmitter and associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP in communication with the transmitter and receiver. Signals received by an antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which can perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP then input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via an antenna. The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control including control of gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter. When the communication device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods. Other communication subsystems such as the WLAN communication subsystem shown in may be provided with similar components as those described above configured for communication over the appropriate frequencies and using the appropriate protocols. The particular design of the communication subsystem or is dependent upon the communication network with which the communication device is intended to operate. Thus it should be understood that the foregoing description serves only as one example.

In some embodiments the communication device may comprise a touchscreen based device in which the display interface is a touchscreen interface that provides both a display for communicating information and presenting graphical user interfaces as well as an input subsystem for detecting user input that may be converted to instructions for execution by the device . The touchscreen display interface may be the principal user interface provided on the device although in some embodiments the touchscreen interface may be an auxiliary user interface and additional buttons shown in or other input means may be provided.

In a touchscreen device the device may comprise a housing which may be formed in one or more pieces using appropriate materials and techniques such as injection molded plastics. The display interface is mounted in the housing and may be movable relative to the housing . Generally construction of the touchscreen and its implementation in the communication device will be understood by those skilled in the art. Examples in the art include commonly owned U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0155991 2009 0244013 2010 0128002 and 2010 0156843 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference. Briefly a touch sensitive display interface may comprise suitable touch sensitive screen technology such as a capacitive resistive infrared surface acoustic wave SAW touch sensitive display strain gauge optical imaging dispersive signal technology acoustic pulse recognition and so forth as known in the art. A capacitive touchscreen display includes a capacitive touch sensitive overlay that may comprise an assembly of multiple layers in a stack including for example a substrate a ground shield layer a barrier layer one or more capacitive touch sensor layers separated by a substrate or other barrier and a cover. The capacitive touch sensor layers may be any suitable material such as patterned indium tin oxide ITO . An example of a touchscreen display interface is described in aforementioned U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0128002. Optionally the device may also provide haptic or tactile feedback through the housing of the device or through the touchscreen itself

In one embodiment a transmissive TFT LCD screen is overlaid with a clear touch sensor assembly that supports single and multi touch actions such as tap double tap tap and hold tap and drag scroll press flick and pinch. The touchscreen display interface detects these single and multi touch actions for example through the generation of a signal or signals in response to a touch which may then be processed by the processor or by an additional processor or processors in the device to determine attributes of the touch event such as the location of the touch action whether defined by horizontal and vertical screen position data or other position data. Touch location data may include an area of contact or a single point of contact such as a point at or near a center of the area of contact. The touchscreen display interface may be provided with separate horizontal and vertical sensors or detectors to assist in identifying the location of a touch. A signal is provided to the controller shown in in response to detection of a touch. The controller and or the processor may detect a touch by any suitable contact member on the touch sensitive display .

The detected touch actions may then be correlated both to user commands and to an element or elements displayed on the display screen comprised in the display interface . In response to the user command the processor may take actions with respect to the identified element or elements. Touches that are capable of being detected may be made by various contact objects such as thumbs fingers appendages styli pens pointers and the like although the selection of the appropriate contact object and its construction will depend on the type of touchscreen display interface implemented on the device. Depending on the technology selected for the touchscreen display interface the interface by itself may detect contact events on its surface irrespective of the degree of pressure applied at the time of contact. Pressure events and varying degrees of pressure applied to the touchscreen display interface may be detected using force sensors discussed below.

The one or more force sensors are disposed beneath the display interface . The construction and implementation of the force sensors will also be understood by those skilled in the art. The force sensor or sensors may include force sensitive resistors strain gauges capacitive piezoelectric or piezoresistive devices pressure sensors or other suitable devices. For example each force sensor may comprise a piezoelectric sensor which when deformed due to force applied through contact by the touchscreen display interface when pressure is applied to the interface transmits an electrical signal to the controller or processor . The force sensors may alternatively comprise a force sensing resistor wherein the resistance changes as force applied to the force sensor changes. As applied force on the touchscreen display increases the resistance decreases. This change is determined via a controller for each of the force sensors and a value representative of the force at each of the force sensors may be determined. Thus each force sensor whether piezoelectric or resistive may be capable of outputting a range of voltages according to the amount of force detected. If the signal is determined to be above a predetermined threshold the signal may be interpreted as application of pressure on the touchscreen display interface associated with particular actions or responses at the device such as actuating a user interface element determined to be located at the point at which the display interface was depressed . Thus with a touchscreen display interface that is sensitive to contact by a contact means the device may be configured to detect not only contact i.e. comparatively light pressure at the touchscreen interface surface using an overlying touch sensing layer but also heavier pressure applied to the touchscreen interface using the one or more force sensors . The output of the force sensor may be digitized by a suitable analog to digital converter which may be comprised in a controller associated with the force sensor not shown. Thus signals from the force sensors that vary in time due to sequences of presses or continuous presses applied via the touchscreen surface may be detected and digitized. Force as utilized throughout the specification including the claims refers to force measurements estimates and or calculations such as pressure deformation stress strain force density force area relationships thrust torque and other effects that include force or related quantities.

The piezoelectric actuators may be positioned at one or more locations underneath the touchscreen display interface . Each actuator may comprise a piezoelectric element mounted on a substrate of a suitable material such as nickel stainless steel brass and so forth. Each of the piezoelectric elements and substrate may be mechanically pre loaded and slightly bent while supported over openings in the base . The actuators include a force sensor disposed on the substrate. The force sensor may include a force sensitive resistor strain gauge pressure sensor capacitive or other suitable device including a piezoelectric or piezoresistive device. These actuators may be electrically connected to the controller or processor via the base and may be used to apply force to the touchscreen display interface in response to a received signal such as a signal generated as a result of the touchscreen interface being depressed by a predetermined amount.

In the examples of discrete force sensors are disposed in a rosette pattern although any other suitable pattern may be utilized including for example single force sensor patterns multiple force sensor patterns multi directional patterns stacked or planar configurations patterns of other shapes and so forth. With a smartphone or other communication or data processing device with a substantially rectangular display interface at least one force sensor may be disposed generally proximate to each corner of the interface . It will be understood that the same or different distribution patterns and the same or a different number of force sensors may be used for different communication device form factors. For example a device with a larger display area such as a tablet computer may have a greater number of force sensors . Each of the individual force sensors may be electrically coupled to one another and to a force sensor controller not shown or to the processor such that a change in resistance or force due for example to pressure applied on the display interface sensed at any one of the force sensors may generate a signal to the controller or processor . If the sensors are coupled to each other then the location of the detected change in resistance or force may not be discernible by the processor. If the force sensors are electrically isolated and separate conductors connect each individual force sensor to the controller or the processor the force sensor detecting applied force may be identified from among the group of force sensors .

Multiple force sensors disposed within the communication device may be logically grouped into one or more sensing regions. Examples are provided in . The phantom lines in illustrate five logically defined sensing regions and . Each sensing region is associated with two force sensors . Thus when pressure is applied to the surface of the display interface in the vicinity of one of the force sensors the force sensor nearest the location at which the pressure is applied may detect the greatest force and transmit a signal accordingly to the controller or processor . If the force sensor is adapted to measure the amount of force applied at or near the sensor the sensor may transmit a signal to the controller or processor indicating the amount of force applied. If the detected force is greater than a predetermined level it may be positively identified as a pressure event. If the sensor is configured to detect forces at multiple levels it may provide distinct signals to the controller or processor to indicate when an applied force has been detected above a first a second and optionally a third or further predetermined level. The controller or processor may thus identify detected pressure events as heavier or lighter presses.

If the detected pressure event may be localized by the force sensors within the device the pressure event may be associated with an entire sensing region associated with that force sensor . Thus the processor may interpret a signal from a force sensor indicating a press as an instruction to invoke an action or command in respect of any displayed content in the sensing region associated with the force sensor . In some cases pressure may be continuously applied across the touchscreen rather than localized in one particular location. The pressure event may therefore be detected by multiple force sensors and may be associated with one or more sensing regions. The detected event may therefore be interpreted by the processor as a command invoking user interface elements displayed on the touchscreen display either within each of the affected sensing regions or along the path traced by the applied force.

If a detected pressure event cannot be localized on the touchscreen by the controller or processor then the location of the pressure event may be determined based on detection of the location of contact by the touch sensitive component of the touchscreen display interface . Accordingly the detection and localization of the pressure event comprises two steps a detection by the touchscreen display interface and its associated controller or the processor of the location of contact on the touchscreen and a detection of applied force on the touchscreen display interface . With these detected events the processor or the controller may determine that a pressure event is occurring at the location of contact.

In a further embodiment the communication device may be provided with a physical keyboard comprising a plurality of keys that may be actuated e.g. depressed by a user. The physical keyboard thus serves as the input interface for the communication device . In particular the device may be configured to receive password input via the keyboard . Force sensors may be incorporated into the keyboard assembly or otherwise positioned in the device so as to permit detection of applied force at the physical keyboard . Thus if one or more of the force sensors detects an application of pressure greater than a predetermined threshold that is necessary for text input the device may interpret this as a pressure event.

As noted above a password may be used to secure access to the device . Consequently access to the password is typically restricted as well users may be cautioned to select a complex password that is more resistant to dictionary or brute force attacks in which an attacker tries a series of password attempts based on a dictionary file or other source of possible alphanumeric or ASCII character combinations. Users may also be cautioned to commit a password to memory and to not write it down so as to prevent an attacker from discovering the password in the user s personal effects and to guard against spoofing attacks in which an attacker poses as a trusted party in an attempt to obtain personal or security information. Many of the means for attempting to obtain a user s password or other security credentials are typically carried out either by deceiving the user or without the user s knowledge however in some cases an attacker may resort to a direct attempt to force the user to provide the password or other information directly and knowingly to the attacker. Such cases typically involve some form of duress either in the form of physical harm the threat of physical harm or some other type of coercion. In such duress scenarios the user may be compelled to give up the desired information by entering the password directly on the communication device in the presence of the attacker. The attacker may then take possession of the device .

Thus it may be desirable for the user to take certain steps if a duress situation is suspected. For example the user could initiate encryption of the data on the device initiate a wipe of the device or otherwise initiate a procedure to corrupt the data so as to render inaccessible any sensitive data that may be compromised by the attack. However under the circumstances the user may not have any opportunity to take these steps as the attacker may be observing the user. The device could therefore be configured to surreptitiously and automatically initiate deletion or encryption or take some other duress response step such as transmitting a message requesting assistance from law enforcement or even executing a pre programmed simulation to make it appear that the device is broken and unable to access its data stores. Implementing these duress responses however still generally requires the user to indicate to the device that a duress situation is suspected or occurring.

One method of indicating a duress situation to the device is to designate a special key or key combination that may be pressed by the user. However if the attacker is observing the user s actions the action of actuating the key or key combination may be detected. Another solution is to have the user enter a password that does not match the actual password for the device . For example if the password used for the device is a simple sequence of letters and or numbers one option is to designate a variant of the password as a special duress password which when input at the device initiates a duress handling procedure at the device. In this example if the password was a four digit sequence then the special duress password may be a rotation of the PIN digits e.g. if the PIN is 1234 the duress password would be 2341 . As another example duress may be signaled by the user entering the usual password on the keyboard but preceded or followed by an additional key press that indicates duress.

As noted above in a touchscreen device the touchscreen may be the primary input means or interface of the device . Further the touchscreen device is typically capable of detecting gestures and other contact events. Thus a symbol or gesture that is traced over all or part of a surface of the touchscreen may be used in place an alphanumeric password that is entered using a keyboard or virtual keyboard on the device . The touch sensitive component of the touchscreen display interface may detect the path of contact traced by a user s finger thumb stylus or other contact device on the surface of the display interface and attempt to match the detected path with information already stored at the device to determine if the input password corresponds to a previously stored password. The stored information in this case may represent touch sensor data identifying a predefined path. If the detected path matches or substantially matches the stored information then the device may permit access to the device s functions and data. Such symbol passwords need not be a single continuous line traced on the touchscreen they may include a plurality of line segments or disconnected touches and may include multitouch contact or gestures in which more than one digit contacts the touchscreen while the symbol is traced.

The paths are relatively simple consisting of a single generally curved path. Symbol passwords may be rendered more complex with multiple line segments or multiple paths dots and combined straight edges and curves. illustrates another example of a symbol password that may be traced on the display of the communication device here the examples are shown on a smartphone form factor but it will be readily appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that they may be implemented on a larger device . The symbol in includes three components a first line a disconnected loop and a series of four dots . If such a complex symbol is used as a password the device may require that the various elements be traced on the device display in a consistent order for the password to be validated. Thus in the example of the first curved line would then be traced on the display first followed by the loop and finally the dots as indicated by the numerals adjacent the various elements. illustrates a further example of a symbol password as it may be traced on the display of a smartphone. The symbol path is substantially continuous but combines different elements such as spirals straight edges and a curve. illustrates still a further example of a symbol password that may be traced on a communication device held in the second i.e. landscape orientation in which substantially all of the width of the touchscreen is filled with the symbol. In some embodiments the communication device may be configured to accept a password entered via the touchscreen only while the device is in a specific orientation e.g. either landscape or portrait . In other embodiments the communication device may be configured to accept and validate a symbol password detected via the display regardless of device orientation.

A symbol password may be set generally in accordance with the process illustrated in . At an instruction to set a new password is received or a command to set a new password detected. The instruction may be received via a user interface for example a user or an administrator may force a new password to be set. The instruction may also be automatically initiated as a result of a determination that a current password set at the device has aged past a predetermined threshold which may be set by an information technology IT or security policy for the device . For example a policy may be set requiring the user to create a new password every thirty or forty five days.

The instruction or command thus initiates data collection at via the touchscreen display interface due to contact detected via the interface . As a precursor to actual data collection the device may be first configured to detect a start command or signal which may be input by the user as a positive indicator that the input subsequently received via the display is to be recorded as a new password. The exemplary user interface shown in is an example of an informational and data gathering screen that may be displayed to the user prior to data collection. In this example the user is directed to press a target area on the display to signal that new password entry is about to begin. The user is also directed to lift his or her finger off the display after pressing the target but prior to beginning password entry so that the processor may distinguish between the start signal and the actual password entry.

Returning to the device therefore enters a data collection or symbol detection mode at during which the device collects data resulting from the user s input of a password at the device . The input password may be a symbol traced on the touchscreen display interface . As noted above the symbol traced may comprise a single continuous line a plurality of lines and other touches such as dots. The user need not apply significant pressure to enter the password with a capacitive touchscreen display for example mere contact with minimal force on the screen may be detected by the device . In some embodiments while the password is traced on the display interface the display interface may be blanked and not display any information to the user. In other embodiments the display interface may display guidelines or other visual cues to assist the user in recalling the placement of the symbol on the display .

At an end to the password entry is detected by the device . While the end of password entry may be detected by a determination that input has ceased to be received via the touchscreen display interface e.g. the device may detect that no new input has been received via the display interface for a predetermined period of time such as three seconds or a longer or shorter period of time in some embodiments the user may be required to positively indicate that password entry is complete. In the example of the user is required to again press the target area to signify that password entry has ended. Alternatively the user may be required to press or touch another input interface on the device such as a button to signify the commencement of password entry the termination of password entry or both. Once the password entry has been determined to be complete the device stores data representative of the symbol input and detected via the touchscreen display interface . The data will represent the path represented by the symbol for example expressed in x y coordinates with reference to the orientation of the device at the time the password was entered. This x y data may be stored in any suitable format at the device for example concatenated as a single string.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the password information subsequently stored need not be stored literally as a series of x y coordinates. For example the detected input may be processed to represent the symbol using one or more geometric primitives such as points lines curves and polygons and data relating to the primitives may be stored instead. The data may or may not include timing data such as the time elapsed from the detected beginning to the detected end of the password entry or the time elapsed for completion of each segment of the password if the password comprises multiple disconnected touches such as in the example of . Other suitable methods of processing user input data of this nature will be known to those skilled in the art. The password data may or may not be stored in association with corresponding pressure data i.e. data representative of a level of force applied by the user while entering the symbol password.

At the device may determine whether the detected password symbol is compliant with any security or IT policy implemented for the device . As with ASCII based passwords for example a specific level of password complexity may be required as noted above. Thus the user may be required to use symbols or gestures comprising one or more of curves straight lines multiple line segments or discontinuities or dots single quick touches or presses on the display interface without moving the position of the finger or thumb along the display interface . The device may also require that the symbol comprise multitouch gestures in which more than one digit is in contact with the display at a given time. For example the user may be required to trace a line with a finger while a thumb of the same hand is in contact with the touchscreen in a specific location. illustrates an exemplary interface for use in establishing security policy rules for setting the symbol password which permits the selection of options such as combinations of curved and straight lines multiple line segments and one or more dots.

If the detected password is determined to be policy compliant then at the password is stored. The data may be stored in an encrypted form in the memory of the device. If the detected password is determined not to be policy compliant then the password is rejected at . The user may then be requested to re attempt new password entry.

Subsequently the next time the user attempts to gain access to the device functions and data the user may be required to enter the symbol password previously defined as above. The user may be provided with a visual or audible prompt to enter the password and optionally prior to entering the password the user may be required to provide some other input to indicate to the device that he or she intends to enter a password. For example the user may be required to touch a particular button to signify that he or she wishes to commence password entry in response to this input the device may enter a password receiving mode. For password entry the device may display a blank screen to the user or as mentioned above may display some visual guide or cue to assist the user in positioning the symbol on the display interface . The user may then enter the symbol password via the touchscreen display interface . Once the symbol password entry has been determined to be complete the device may then compare the entered symbol to the stored symbol password data and permit access according to the results of the comparison. Comparison of the newly entered password against previously stored password data in the context of a symbol password may be carried out using techniques similar to those generally known in the art for recognizing gestures input via a touchscreen interface.

When a password is subsequently re entered via the touchscreen interface even by the authorized user slight variations in the symbol traced may be introduced. The device may be configured to accept the password as valid provided these variations fall within a predetermined tolerance. The tolerance may simply be defined as a specific radius or margin of error on either side of the lines defined in the originally entered password symbol provided the re entered password symbol is within this margin it may be deemed a match.

In other embodiments tolerances may be computed according to other factors. For example the first stroke in the symbol shown in may be defined as a simple curve having a first length arc and direction. While the stroke may also be associated with a starting and ending position on the display expressible as an x y coordinate the device may be configured to accept any input stroke substantially in compliance with the defined arc and direction provided the input stroke commences and ends within a defined radius of the associated starting and ending position. Consequently some tolerance in length of the first stroke may be implied. Similarly if the arc within the first stroke is defined in relation to one or more radius values an input stroke may be deemed to be within tolerance if its radius value is within a specific range around the defined radius value. Additionally some tolerance may be applied in the relative positioning of discrete strokes within the symbol. The second stroke shown in for example may be defined as intersecting or contacting the first stroke at a specific point of the first stroke . The position of an input second stroke may be deemed to be within tolerance if it contacts the input first stroke within a defined distance of the previously defined point of contact.

Tolerances may also be defined with respect to the timing of the symbol password entry if timing data is stored in respect of the password. For example the time elapsed in entering the password must match the time elapsed in entering the originally stored password within a predetermined tolerance such as 0.5 second or else the time elapsed in entering the password must not exceed the amount of time taken to enter the original password again within a predetermined tolerance. Similarly if the symbol password comprises multiple segments or touches each individual segment or touch may be required to be completed within a specified period of time based on the recorded times elapsed in respect of these segments or presses when the password was originally entered. Because it is possible that an attacker attempting to mimic the password may have a different pace in tracing the password symbol or actuating the appropriate keys this time constraint may permit detection of unauthorized password attempts on the device . Generally methods of performing a match between an entered symbol and previously stored symbol data with or without tolerances will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

If the touchscreen display interface is adapted to detect the symbol password entry without requiring the user to apply significant force to the display interface for example in the case of a capacitive touchscreen display the user is not required to make effort to apply any particular level of force to the touchscreen display interface while entering the password. However if the device is also equipped with a force sensor or sensors the application of force may be used to identify a duress situation. To indicate to the device that the password is being entered under conditions of duress the user may simply enter the same predefined password but press harder on the display interface than normally for the entire duration of password entry or for a portion thereof. The device may detect the applied force and interpret the password entry as a duress signal and take any predefined action in respect of the duress signal. Alternatively duress may be indicated to the device when the password is entered with less force than associated with normal password entry.

An example of the process that may be followed by the device in receiving an entered password symbol for the purpose of verification and permitting access to the device is shown in . At the beginning of password entry is detected. As discussed above this may be a specific input received from the user such as a button press that password entry is about to begin. The input may also be a touch or gesture on a specific area of the touchscreen display interface . In other embodiments there may not be any specific command or input received from a user to indicate that password entry is about to begin. For example if the device is in a locked state in which access to functions and data is generally not permitted unless a password is entered any manipulation of any user input system on the device whether a button press scroll wheel movement or contact on the touchscreen display interface may place the device in a password detection mode.

At the device enters a password detection or receiving mode and detects the password input via the touchscreen display interface . At the same time pressure or force data is also collected by the force sensor or sensors for at least a portion of the password entry duration. At the end of password entry is detected for example by detecting that contact between the user s digit or the contact tool and the touchscreen has been broken or that a predetermined period of time has passed since any input was received by the device . At the received input data representing the password is converted to an appropriate digital representation. As discussed above this may include the generation of data based on the x y representation of the symbol or the generation of geometric primitive data optionally together with timing data. A data representation based on the detected force data collected by the force sensor or sensors is also generated. If the force sensor or sensors are configured to only detect applied force on the touchscreen display but not localized to any particular place the data generated may be an average value for all force data collected during password entry. Alternatively an average force value may be generated for each segment of the symbol entered during the password receiving mode. In the foregoing embodiment the password is input using a touchscreen input interface. In this embodiment the input password need not be a symbol it may be a path or sequence of key presses on a virtual keyboard displayable on the touchscreen interface . In the alternative the input interface used to input the password may be a physical keyboard . In this alternative embodiment the password may comprise alphanumeric content rather than a shape or symbol. In one embodiment the force sensors may be positioned so as to detect pressure applied to a keyboard and the password itself may be an alphanumeric string that can be entered using a keyboard. Thus the password detection by the device in block of may comprise detecting input of an alphanumeric string using the keyboard.

At it is determined whether the received password as represented by the digital representation matches the previously stored password information in accordance with any tolerance or timing constraints as discussed above. If there is no match then access to the data and functions of the device is denied at . If there is a match however it is then determined whether the applied force or pressure during the password entry was above a predetermined threshold at . This determination may be carried out using the data generated based on the force data collected during password entry for example if the average force value computed over the entire duration of password entry exceeds a predetermined threshold then a duress condition is identified at . Alternatively if the force value during any one or more segments or portions of the input password or during some predefined minimum period of time during the password entry exceeds a predetermined force value then the duress condition may be identified at . For example if additional force is detected during at least half of the time elapsed in entering the password the device may identify this as a duress condition. The device may invoke any predefined duress procedure upon identification of the duress condition at . If no force above a predetermined threshold is detected then at access to the device is allowed. The predetermined threshold of applied force may be defined a number of ways. In a first embodiment any force detected by the force sensor or sensors may constitute a detection of force above the predetermined threshold. In a second embodiment a threshold value may be expressly set in a security policy. The interface of for example provides an option for an absolute force value to be set as the predetermined threshold. In a further embodiment the user may train the device to recognize a duress password. For example when a new password is set at the device the user may be required to enter the password once in a normal state with minimal applied force and then a further time in a duress state with a user selected level of applied force.

Similarly if the password is a string to be entered via a keyboard as described above after receipt of the password it may be determined whether additional force was detected during the course of password entry. This additional force may result from additional pressure applied to one or more keys on the keyboard . In a further embodiment described with reference to the determination of a duress condition is carried out prior to completion of password entry. At the beginning of password entry is detected at the device and at detection begins of the password input. At during password entry a determination is made whether applied force during the password entry is above a predetermined threshold. This determination may comprise a continuous monitoring of the output of the force sensor or sensors to detect a signal or value above a predetermined level or to detect that this elevated signal is received for longer than a predetermined period of time. In this variant it is thus possible that the user may not have started to enter the password with additional applied force but then commenced applying the force during the course of password entry.

If there is a determination during the course of password entry that additional force has been applied then a duress flag may be set at the device at . Optionally however the user may be given an opportunity to cancel the duress password entry. Upon detection of the additional applied force first at feedback is provided to the user to indicate that the device had detected a duress condition. At the device determines whether it has received an instruction to cancel the current password entry received so far and to reset the password entry process. The feedback at may be provided discreetly for example a flickering pixel or other small indicator may be displayed on the touchscreen display interface . Alternatively if the device is equipped with tactile actuators the device may provide feedback by slightly vibrating or pulsing the screen this response may be detected by the user as an indication that the device considers the currently entered password to be entered under duress. If the user detects the response of the actuator and does not intend to enter a duress password then the user may break contact with the touchscreen display interface and cease entering a password so as to cause a password entry reset. While a malicious user may use this feedback mechanism to attempt to reconstruct a password coupled with other limitations on incorrect password entry e.g. configuring the device such that a predetermined number of unsuccessful password entry attempts in a row will result in wiping the device the possibility of this reconstruction is reduced.

If there is no determination of applied force above a predetermined level then at the end of password entry is detected and the device attempts a match between the received password and the stored password data as described above. If the match is unsuccessful then access is denied at . If the match is successful and no duress flag was previously set at then access to the device is permitted at . If the match is successful but the duress flag had been previously set then the device may interpret this password as a duress password and enter the duress condition at and take any predefined action in respect of duress.

In a further embodiment timing data may be used to confirm whether a duress condition exists. As noted above timing data such as the time elapsed in tracing a symbol or in actuating the keys corresponding to the password may be determined and stored. Since applying additional force to the touchscreen display interface increases the normal force at the surface of the display interface friction between the user s digit or contact tool and the display interface may increase causing the password entry to be slower. A marked increase in the amount of time required to compete the correct password may be used to confirm that a duress condition exists. Alternatively the time elapsed during password entry may be used to distinguish between a normal password and a duress password even without using a detection or measure of applied force to determine whether a duress password had been input. For example when the password is initially set at the device as it may be with reference to the process illustrated in timing data associated with the password may be stored at the device as well. When password entry is subsequently detected at the communication device the time required to complete the subsequent password entry is compared to the timing data. If the subsequent password entry time generally matches the stored timing data for example within a given tolerance no duress condition is identified. However if the subsequent password entry time is significantly greater or less than the stored timing data for example 10 while the password itself that was input otherwise matches the stored password data a duress condition is identified. The variance between the subsequent password entry time and the stored timing data may be fixed by means of the IT policy or a setting at the communication device .

By defining the duress password as the same password but simply entered on the touchscreen display or keyboard with greater applied force than the usual non duress password the user is not required to remember any extra data such as an extra code or series of key presses in order to trigger a duress condition at the device . It is only necessary for the user to recall that pressure should be applied while entering the password. This is beneficial since in a real duress situation the user may panic and not recall the extra steps to be taken. As described in one embodiment above the device may compute the average force applied during entry of the password or may determine that a duress condition exists provided at least a portion of the password is entered with additional applied force. In that case the user may commence entering the password symbol with the normal amount of force e.g. only the amount of force sufficient for contact to be detected by the touchscreen display then partway through symbol entry apply additional force detectable by the force sensor or sensors in the device . The device may still interpret the password entry as a duress password because at least a portion of the symbol was determined to have been entered using additional applied force. Thus even if the user initially forgot under the stress of the duress situation to begin entering the duress password he or she can still trigger the duress condition at the device by applying additional force partway through the password entry.

Furthermore to an attacker that had previously seen the user enter the correct non duress password and was aware of the general parameters of the password but not the exact symbol shape or key sequence the user s entry of the duress password will substantially resemble entry of the normal non duress password. Thus the user s actions in entering the duress password may not trigger any suspicion that the user was engaging in behavior other than simply entering the non duress password. In addition in the case of a symbol password because the duress and non duress password are associated with the same symbol symbol shape data need only be stored at the device in respect of one shape. It is not necessary for the device to maintain separate duress password symbol data. Also because the duress password and the non duress password share the same symbol shape it is not necessary for the device to engage in two symbol matching processes in order to distinguish between a duress password entry and a non duress incorrect password entry. For example if the duress password had been different then the device would have to first determine whether the entered symbol matched the stored non duress password symbol and if not whether the entered symbol matched the stored duress password. Because the duress and non duress passwords in the above embodiments follow the same pattern only one matching process is necessary if there is a match there need only be a determination that additional force was applied during password entry.

Further if the device provides tactile feedback during password entry to indicate that it has flagged the password entry as a duress password due to the detected applied force on the display the user may be alerted to cease password entry before completing the password if the applied force was unintentional. This may reduce the incidence of accidental duress password entry at the device .

The password requirements and policy may be set at the communication device . However these settings may be configured remotely at a host system in communication with the communication device . The host system may be associated with a corporate enterprise or other local area network LAN but can also be a home office computer or some other private system or a server maintained by a telecommunications provider for example in variant implementations. The communication device may be in communication with the host system over a LAN or wireless LAN or over a public or private network. The public or private network may be accessed via the wireless network . Data from the host system may be transmitted to the communication device over the LAN WLAN or other network. In other embodiments the communication device may be physically connected to the host system via a cradle which can be coupled to a device such as the user s computer. The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications to the communication device and can be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the communication device for use or for updating information technology policies at the device such as password settings. The host system may include an IT Policy editor and server as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the communication devices registered with the host system. The IT Policy may set rules for passwords as mentioned above as well as other configuration settings for communication devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration other security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the communication device and the like.

The systems and methods disclosed herein are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the subject matter described herein. Other variations of the systems and methods described above will be apparent to those in the art and as such are considered to be within the scope of the subject matter described herein. For example it should be understood that steps and the order of the steps in the processing described herein may be altered modified and or augmented and still achieve the desired outcome.

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

Code adapted to provide the systems and methods described above may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

