---

title: System and method for disrupting suspect objects
abstract: A system and method for disrupting at least one component of a suspect object is provided. The system includes a source for passing radiation through the suspect object, a screen for receiving the radiation passing through the suspect object and generating at least one image therefrom, a weapon having a discharge deployable therefrom, and a targeting unit. The targeting unit displays the image(s) of the suspect object and aims the weapon at a disruption point on the displayed image such that the weapon may be positioned to deploy the discharge at the disruption point whereby the suspect object is disabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08479435&OS=08479435&RS=08479435
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08479435
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101026
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to techniques for disrupting a suspect object. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for investigating targeting disabling and or otherwise disrupting a suspect object such as an explosive device.

Suspect objects are items that potentially pose a significant threat to persons and or property. A suspect object may be for example a luggage box or other container that is suspected of containing dangerous materials e.g. explosives volatile materials toxins etc. that may cause injury and or damage. Techniques have been developed to detect suspect objects as described for example in US Patent Application No. 2005 0025280. It may be preferable to investigate the contents of the suspect object without touching the object. Techniques have been developed to image contents of an object as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. Application Nos. 6 359 961 6 281 507 and 2008 0112541.

In cases where the suspect object is determined to pose a threat it is often necessary to de activate neutralize or otherwise disable the suspect object or one or more of its components to render the suspect object inoperable. Attempts have been made to disable explosive devices by deploying projectiles or substances into explosive devices as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 046 055 4 169 403 4 779 511 4 957 027 5 210 368 5 515 767 6 298 763 6 644 166 and 7 228 778 or by disabling electrical components within the explosive device as described in U.S. Pat. No. Application Nos. 4 062 112 2009 0189091 or 2008 0254738 .

Despite the development of techniques for identifying or disabling suspect objects there remains a need for advanced techniques for effectively disrupting suspect objects. It may be desirable to investigate the suspect object preferably without contacting the suspect object. Such investigation preferably provides a highly accurate view of the contents of the suspect object. It may be further desirable to disable the suspect object preferably from a distance. Such disablement is preferably accurately aimed at key components of the suspect object. Preferably such capabilities involve one or more of the following among others compact operability portability easy assembly and use transportability accuracy operation in difficult conditions simple operation disruption of select components preferably without affecting other components preventing suspect object and or component operation visually inspecting the explosive device and or its contents manual and or automatic operation operability about obstacles etc.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified figures and described in detail below.

The investigation unit includes a source and a screen for creating an image of the suspect object . The source may be a conventional radiation source capable of emitting sufficient radiation through the suspect object to generate an image on screen as will be described further herein. The investigation unit is also provided with a fixture or marker positionable about the screen . The fixture serves as a physical marker for locating the investigation unit in 3D space as will be described further herein.

The weapon unit has a weapon camera and a discharge for disabling at least one component of the suspect object . The weapon is supported on a firing stand or tripod and is positionable for firing at the suspect object . The camera is mounted on the weapon via a camera mount . The camera is preferably positioned to view the fixture of the investigation unit for alignment therewith. Preferably the fixture is centered in the camera s field of view when the weapon is pointed toward the suspect object . The alignment of the camera may be used to aim the weapon such that the discharge may be deployed to a disruption point D as will be described further herein.

The disruption system of is depicted as a Line Of Sight LOS disruption system positioned about the suspect object . In the LOS or unobstructed configuration of the suspect object is within a line of sight of the source and the screen . As shown in this configuration the fixture has been mounted on a fixture extender and the camera has been mounted on a camera extension to provide line of sight therebetween.

The disruption system of is a No Line Of Sight NLOS disruption system positioned about the suspect object with an obstacle therebetween. In the NLOS or obstructed configuration of the obstacle prevents a direct line of sight between the camera and the screen . To overcome the obstacle the disruption system is further provided with a relay unit in the line of sight of both the investigation unit and the weapon unit . The relay unit includes a camera and a fixture . The relay unit may be used as a link to provide line of sight indirectly between the investigation unit and the weapon unit as will be described further herein.

One or more stands extenders mounts relay units or other devices may be provided to position various components of the disruption system about the suspect object . Preferably the devices are adjustable to permit selective positioning of the components. One or more disruption systems of may be provided about one or more suspect objects . Preferably the components of the disruption system are portable adjustable and movable to provide various configurations as needed to conform to a given situation and to effectively disrupt the suspect object . As seen in a carrying case may optionally be provided for transporting one or more components.

Referring still to the targeting unit is schematically depicted as being linked to the investigation unit and the weapon unit via a communication hub for communication therewith. The targeting unit includes a database a processor and controllers . The targeting unit may provide image acquisition image enhancement video tracking real time camera pose estimation system component locators image measurement stereo triangulation display updates aiming instructions and other capabilities.

Data received from the investigation unit weapon unit and or other sources e.g. historical data user inputs etc. may be stored in database . The processor may use the data to generate images perform calculations generate reports provide commands etc.

The processor includes an investigation tool a targeting tool and an analysis tool . The investigation tool may provide images of the suspect object and its contents and the targeting tool may aim the weapon unit at the disruption point D of the suspect object . The analysis tool may be used alone or with the investigation tool and or the targeting tool to assist in performing various operations such as performing calculations generating reports generating commands and or providing feedback as will be described more fully herein. Commands generated by the processor may be used to activate controller s to operate the disruption system as will be described further herein.

The screen includes a film an x ray transparent face plate screen markets M and a screen stand . Radiation from the source passes through the protective x ray transparent face plate and onto the film to create an image thereon. Screen markers M such as tungsten dots are embedded in the face plate such that they are visible in the image. One or more screen markers M may be positioned about the screen to assist in measuring locating and or otherwise identifying features of the image. Screen markers M may be placed at known positions on face plate to enable a determination of the location of the source .

The face plate and film may be supported on screen stand . The screen stand may have a fixture mount for adjustably supporting the fixture thereon. The fixture is preferably adjustably positionable on the screen via fixture mount . The fixture may be a three dimensional device used to assist with the targeting of the weapon . As shown the fixture has three faces to enable tracking at shallower angles between the camera and fixture than may not be possible with a planar configuration. The fixture is preferably provided with multiple panels with markings thereon to facilitate visual positioning and a geometric design having corners on the panels at different depths to enhance tracking accuracy.

A light such as a chem light may be provided to illuminate the fixture in no or low light conditions. The light may be inserted into fixture to illuminate the visual pattern of the fixture. One or more lights may be positioned about for example one or more fixtures of the disruption system as desired.

The investigation unit preferably has known geometries about an image coordinate system I centered at position Pat a fixed point on screen . The position Pof the first source P of the second source and Pof the fixture are known. The position Pis at a known offset Ofrom the screen . A first vector Vis defined from the first source through the object and to a pixel location on the screen . A second vector V is defined from the second source through the object and to a pixel location on the screen . The geometry of the configuration may be used to determine positions of the components of the suspect object using conventional stereo triangulation calculations.

As shown in FIGS. B B images b generated from the investigation unit may be displayed on display of processor . The investigation tool may be used to gather the images and display them as shown. Preferably images from each source are shown as dual images on a user display . The images may be for example three dimensional stereo radiographs captured from a specially calibrated portable x ray imaging unit.

The markers M on face plate are detected by the investigation unit and identified on the images b as shown in FIG. B. The location of the markers M as well as the other geometry of the investigation unit as described with respect to are used to determine the location of the sources . As shown in FIG. B a user may select an ID point on image to identify a component for targeting. The investigation unit uses the geometry of the investigation unit and the pixel locations to extend an epipolar line into image of FIG. B. The epipolar line may be used to assist the user in identifying an ID point on image corresponding to the component targeted in image . The investigation unit will define a disruption point D in the images based on the selected ID points as shown in FIG. B.

Referring back to the targeting unit may be used to receive information perform necessary calculations analyze information and or otherwise process the information to achieve the desired operation. The targeting unit is linked to the investigation tool for generating images of the suspect object . The investigation tool preferably uses state of the art computer vision and position registration technologies to generate and or refine images from the data received from the investigation unit and or other sources . Preferably the investigation tool provides 3D images of the suspect object and 3D points therein as shown in FIGS. B B.

The investigation tool may be used to compute the 3D locations of the source and other components relative to the origin P. These 3D locations may then be related to the position of the fixture . The analysis tool may be used to perform stereo triangulation or other calculations alone or in combination with the investigation tool . The investigation tool may be used in conjunction with the analysis tool to define one or more disruption points D of the suspect object .

FIGS. B and B show detailed views of portions of the weapon . The weapon may be a conventional weapon such as a PAN T FIGS. B B or other weapon capable of deploying a discharge into the suspect object . The weapon includes a firing shaft a weapon block and a disruptor sleeve . The weapon block is positionable on the weapon mount . The weapon block is positionable on the firing shaft with the disruptor sleeve therebetween. The sleeve is configured to absorb recoil of the weapon upon release of the discharge to prevent potential damage to the components of the weapon unit . A breech cap is positioned at a non discharging end of the firing shaft . A muzzle protector may be positioned on a discharge end of the firing shaft as shown in FIG. B.

The firing shaft may be hollow for deploying the discharge therefrom. The discharge may be a conventional projectile deployable by the weapon into the suspect object . In such cases the weapon may be a gun pressurized tube or other mechanism capable of deploying the discharge into the suspect object. Alternatively the discharge may be for example an electrical signal emitted by the weapon into the suspect object for disabling the electrical activation thereof.

As shown in camera is adjustably secured on the weapon block by camera mount . The weapon mount and the camera mount may have attachment points not shown for securing the camera and the weapon in place. Various features such as alignment features magnets or other devices may be provided to secure the components of the weapon unit in place to enhance precision and or repeatability.

The camera may be a conventional camera capable of capturing images of the fixture . The camera is preferably positionable within line of sight of fixture . The camera may be used to track well defined features of the fixture e.g. squares on fixture have known patterns and spacing and compute camera position relative to those features. The camera preferably is used to estimate a position and orientation of the weapon unit relative to the fixture . The weapon unit has a coordinate system W that may be related to the coordinate system I of the investigation unit .

The geometry of the weapon unit may be determined from the known positions Pof the camera Fof the weapon and offset Oof the camera . This information may be used to locate the weapon in three dimensional space and to aim the weapon at the disruption point D on the suspect object. Vector Vmay be defined between the camera position Pand the fixture position P. Based on the known geometry of the weapon unit the weapon vector Vmay be defined between the weapon and the disruption point D.

The weapon may be aligned to the vector Vso that the discharge may be aimed to hit the disruption point D. Once aligned the weapon may be activated to deploy the discharge . Preferably weapon is aligned sufficiently to deploy the discharge into the suspect object at the discharge point D to disable the operation thereof. The weapon may be re aligned to one or more disruption points D.

Referring back to the targeting unit may also be linked to the weapon unit for aiming the weapon at the disruption point D of the suspect object . The targeting tool may compute geometries of the weapon unit to define a configuration for aiming the weapon at the disruption point D. The targeting tool receives information from the disruption system to determine positioning of the components of the investigation unit the contents of the suspect object and the disruption point D. The camera may be used to register the image coordinate system I of the investigation unit to the coordinate system W of the weapon unit . The targeting tool may then be used to align the weapon to the disruption point s D defined by the investigation tool . Preferably real time targeting instructions for aiming the weapon at the desired disruption point s D are provided by the targeting tool .

The target tool is linked to camera of the weapon unit and calculates the 3D position position and orientation of the fixture . Feature locations are calculated with respect to the fixture. The offset from the camera to the weapon is known. Therefore the position of features relative to the weapon may also be determined. Since the 3D position of the weapon relative to the disruption point D are known and updated in real time the targeting tool may determine the adjustments that must be made in order to aim the weapon at the disruption point D. The analysis tool may be used to perform stereo triangulation or other calculations alone or in combination with the targeting tool .

Controller s of the targeting unit may be linked to the investigation unit and the targeting unit for selective activation thereof. The controller may provide for example real time adjustment of the fixture camera weapon and or other components as desired. Optionally some or all commands from the targeting unit or other sources may be automatically generated for automatic adjustment and or manual adjustments may be made by operators receiving instructions from the controller . The controller may be activated based on the outputs generated by the investigation tool targeting tool and or analysis tool . For example the fixture mount may be linked to controller for adjusting the position of fixture relative to the camera s of the weapon unit . In another example the weapon mount may be linked to controller to position the weapon in alignment with the disruption point D.

The targeting unit may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Embodiments may take the form of a computer program embodied in any medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. The embodiments may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic device s to perform a process.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form such as software processing application readable by a machine such as a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Embodiments may further be embodied in an electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or wireline wireless or other communications medium. Further it should be appreciated that the embodiments may take the form of hand calculations and or operator comparisons. To this end the operator and or engineer s may receive manipulate catalog and store the data from the systems tools and or units in order to perform tasks depicted in the disruption systems described herein.

The method may also involve defining a position of the suspect object relative to an image coordinate axis I defining a position of the weapon relative to a weapon coordinate axis W and linking the position of the weapon to the position of the suspect object by relating the weapon coordinate axis W to the image coordinate axis I.

The method may further involve processing data concerning the disruption system processing data from the investigation and or weapon units analyzing data from the investigation and or weapon units performing calibrations controlling the investigation and or weapon units and or selectively adjusting a position of the investigation and or weapon units. The steps may be performed in any order and repeated as desired.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example the disruption system described herein may have one or more components of the investigation weapon and or target units positionable about one or more suspect objects.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

