---

title: Vessel of interest communications system
abstract: A communication system electromagnetically communicates beyond the electromagnetic barrier created by a physical barrier. First pre-existing electrical AC power distributing infrastructure extends on one side of the physical barrier and has electrical conductors and AC outlets. At least one first communication subsystem is located at the one side of the physical barrier and is connected to the electrical conductors. At least one second communication subsystem is located at an opposite side from the first side of the physical barrier. The first and second communication subsystems each have a first handheld transceiver radio, a second transceiver radio, a radio-to-local-area-network converter, and a power line Ethernet adapter. At least one electrical conductor extends the electrical power distributing infrastructure on the one side to the power line Ethernet adapter of the second communication subsystem on the opposite side of the physical barrier. The cost-effective system is made of commercial and government off-the-shelf components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08334614&OS=08334614&RS=08334614
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08334614
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100201
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention relates to a reliable specialized communication system. More particularly this invention is for a communication system utilizing pre existing in situ electrical power lines for communicating beyond a physical barrier ship hull concrete wall underground facility etc. that would normally cut off communications between radio users.

Currently when vessel boarding teams emergency responders and other disaster relief groups try to effectively take appropriate action to situations on the other side of physical boundaries or barriers their efforts can be frustrated by lack of communications. By way of a more specific example when individuals traverse from the exterior to the interior of the metal structure of an ocean going vessel radio contact between the interior and exterior is prevented due to the properties of the ship s hull metal and its attenuation and reflection of radio frequency waves. Consequently the best solutions or effective responses to a wide variety of emergencies may not happen when they are needed. This problem is well known and efforts are still ongoing to find a solution.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a communication system including backpack portable suites of equipment that enable handheld radio communications between at least two users using a pre existing power distribution installation in an area that would normally be cut off from other radio users due to the physical barrier created by a ship s hull concrete wall or underground facility etc.

The present invention provides a system for communicating beyond an electromagnetic barrier created by a physical barrier. A pre existing first electrical power distributing infrastructure is disposed on one side of the physical boundary or barrier and has electrical conductors and AC outlets. At least one first communication subsystem also is disposed at the one side of the physical boundary and is connected to the electrical conductors of the first electrical power distributing infrastructure. The first communication subsystem has a first handheld transceiver radio a second transceiver radio a radio to local area network converter and a power line Ethernet adapter. At least one second communication subsystem is disposed at an opposite side from the first side of the physical boundary and has a first handheld transceiver radio a second transceiver radio a radio to local area network converter and a power line Ethernet adapter. At least one electrical conductor extends from the electrical power distributing infrastructure on the one side to the power line Ethernet adapter of the second communication subsystem on the opposite side of the physical boundary. The first communication subsystem at the one side of the physical boundary is connected to one of the AC outlets and to the electrical conductors of the electrical power distributing infrastructure and the second communication subsystem is connected to at least one electrical conductor by another of the AC outlets. The radio to local area network converters of the subsystems convert output audio signals from each interconnected second transceiver radio into data packets for transmission via Ethernet and vise versa for incoming audio signals and each power line Ethernet adapter is capable of adapting data packets for Ethernet communications to provide additional Ethernet interfaces without the need for additional Ethernet cable installations.

An object of the invention is to provide a system for communicating using pre existing power distributing infrastructure in a vessel of interest or other structure to allow communications previously blocked by a physical boundary such as a ship s hull concrete wall large enclosure or underground facility for examples.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cost effective system for communicating across an electromagnetic barrier made from components of commercial off the shelf COTS or government off the shelf GOTS technologies.

Another object of the invention is to provide backpack portable suites of COTS or GOTS equipment allowing communications man to man and ship to ship across physical boundaries and or a electromagnetic barriers.

Another object of the invention is to provide a system enabling voice communications among members of a VBSS vessel boarding search and seizure team throughout a vessel of interest.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to the vessel of interest communication system of the invention is schematically depicted for providing selective bi directional electromagnetic communications among members of a VBSS team across a physical boundary or barrier such as a ship s metal or non metal hull concrete wall underground facility etc. Irrespective of its physical thickness or shape physical barrier has the properties to block attenuate or reflect transmission of electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves and shield or distort the usefulness of radio transmissions across it.

Communication system has at least one communication subsystem that can be sized to be backpack portable by each member of the VBSS team. This compact size allows each mobile team member to carry a separate communication subsystem among different interior or exterior compartments or on either side of physical barrier during boarding or inspection procedures. Walls and of interior and exterior compartments and also may have properties that create additional physical shielding barriers or boundaries for electromagnetic transmissions and may augment the attenuation provided by physical barrier . However communication system overcomes these obstacles too.

Each communication subsystem has a conventional electrical connector plug for mating with AC power outlets that may be on the electrical conductors of an existing wiring system or pre existing AC power distributing infrastructure PDI in the ship or facility. Typically at least one of electrical conductors extends from PDI to pass through physical barrier . A team member may also carry an additional length of electrical conductor to function as an electrically integral extension of one of electrical conductors and add or plug in this length of electrical conductor to one of electrical conductors of PDI to pass through barrier . This integral extension of one of the electrical conductors will assure bridging of barrier and allow a positive linking of components for communications as will be described. This power distributing infrastructure PDI may also have additional AC power outlets on one or more of its electrical conductors that may be used to link up with an external AC power source not shown to feed electrical power over the electrical conductors of power distributing infrastructure and or also feed such AC power to structure outside of infrastructure .

Referring to each communication subsystem allows voice and or data communications for each member of a team and is made from COTS GOTS equipment of proven technology. All subsystems utilize the existing power distributing infrastructure of a ship or facility as a conduit for these communications. Optionally each communication subsystem has a first handheld transceiver radio carried by each team member and a second radio transceiver radio that is tuned to be compatible to transmit and receive information to and from first handheld radio . Optionally some or all of subsystems can have several first handheld transceiver radios in electromagnetic communication with radios to allow more communications by more team members on either sides of barrier . Each sub system also has a separate radio to local area network RTLAN converter RTL coupled to second radio and a power line Ethernet adapter PEA is coupled between RTL and electrical connector plug .

First handheld radio and second radio are in common use today by military law enforcement and emergency response personnel. Typically many professional and tactical radios include an audio interface to which an external device can be connected such as an auxiliary microphone speaker or intercom box and both of these radios can be so equipped if desired.

First handheld radio is not physically connected to second radio but is electromagnetically coupled via radio links provided by bidirectional transmissions between these two radios. This capability allows a team member to carry first radio to different parts in an interior or exterior compartment or depending on which side of physical barrier the team member is located. Each team member can communicate with other team members each carrying first radios through power distribution infrastructure via second radios in each communication subsystem that is interconnected to electrical conductors of infrastructure .

The bidirectional transmissions between members are enabled by RTL converter to transmit voice and data radio communications via Ethernet. RTL converter is connected to both the audio input output interfaces on a typical handheld radio used as second radio and to PEA via an Ethernet or serial port on a hub switch or router that is part of a local area network. RTL converter converts the output audio signal from each radio into data packets for transmission via Ethernet and vise versa for incoming audio signals. A typical commercially available unit for RTL converter is marketed as the AudioMate 360r by VoiceInterop 8000 N. Federal Highway Suite 100 Boca Raton Fla. 33487 USA although other units capable of translating audio signals to data packets could be selected.

Power line adapter PEA utilizes electrical conductors of existing power distribution infrastructure in a ship building or underground facility as a conduit through which to pass the data of the data packets. PEA is connected to electrical connector plug that plugs directly into a standard AC outlet of power distributing infrastructure and transmits receives data over its electrical conductors facility AC power lines to and from another interconnected power line Ethernet adapter PEA in another communication sub system within or outside of the ship or facility. A typical commercially available unit for PEA adapter is marketed as the CORINEX HOMENET POWER CXP HD200 W2HNA by Corinex Communications Corp. 601 905 West Pender Street Vancouver BC BC V6C IL6 Canada although other units capable of adapting data packets for Ethernet communications could be used. This utilization of PEA adapter gives a user additional Ethernet interfaces without the need for additional Ethernet cable installations.

Together first handheld radio second radio RTL converter and the power line Ethernet adapter of PEA of each communication subsystem enable the utilization of power lines of a facility s power distribution infrastructure for a communications channel to be established among a number of users or team members across an electro magnetic barrier . The presence of actual AC power on conductors of infrastructure is not necessary for this technology to work correctly since battery power can be designed into communication system if needed.

Referring again to the embodiment of communication system shown in typical operation can be established quickly between two operators each equipped with a backpack portable communication subsystem . These operators could be for example an interior operator A a member of a boarding team in the interior AA of a ship s hull and on one side of physical barrier created by the ship s steel hull or superstructure and an exterior operator B another member of the boarding team at the exterior BB of the ship on the other side of physical barrier . Exterior operator B locates an AC power outlet connected to at least one of electrical conductors of power distribution infrastructure and plugs electrical conductor plug of the backpack portable communication subsystem of exterior operator B into this AC outlet . Exterior operator B automatically sequences through a power up phase of electrically interconnected radios and RTL converter and PEA adapter and is ready to be connected to interior communications subsystem of interior operator A. Exterior operator B may then remain in position on the outside of the ship. Interior operator A enters the vessel and locates an AC power outlet connected to at least one of electrical conductors of infrastructure . Interior operator A then inserts plug of the interior communication subsystem into the AC outlet and automatically sequences through a power up phase of electrically interconnected radios and RTL converter and PEA adapter of the backpack portable interior communications sub system and is connected to communicate with exterior communications sub system of exterior operator B. Interior operator A may remain in position or move about interior compartment and transmit receive information via first handheld radio . As the boarding procedure progresses interior operator A may pull out the previously plugged in connector plug of interior sub system then proceed onward with others of the boarding team and re insert plug in another AC power outlet in a different interior compartment for communications from there. In addition at least some of communication subsystems may have a plurality of first handheld transceiver radios in electromagnetic communication with radios to accommodate more members of a team on either side of barrier . Thus once both interior and exterior operators A and B power up their subsystems to link them together communications and more responsible co action among interior and exterior personnel is assured.

The embodiment of communication system of shows a plurality of communication subsystems that may each be used by one or more interior operators A members of the boarding team that each carries a separate first handheld radio as they move about within their respective interior compartments . Communication subsystems can be made to be compatible for communications with first handheld radios of one or more or all the interior subsystems in accordance with known Ethernet protocol to accommodate communications as boarding members move about in interior AA of the ship or facility being investigated. More than one exterior operator B on the exterior BB other side of physical barrier also can have this increased communications capability among exterior operators B as well as interior operators A in accordance with established Ethernet practices. Exterior operators B may plug into a second power line infrastructure on the opposite side of physical barrier . This is no problem so long as at least one linking electrical conductor is connected to AC outlets in both infrastructures and to assure communications between them.

Second infrastructure also has electrical conductors and AC outlets for coupling and interconnecting subsystems . An electrical conductor link can extend from either of infrastructures and and be connected to AC outlets in both of them to assure successful communications.

Utilization of other infrastructure other than the electrical conductors of AC power distribution infrastructure such as metal piping or air ducting has been considered as a potential conductor but has been found to be wanting for data transmissions. The piping and ducting were not considered adequate for reliable communications due to the need for two separate conductors and both the air ducting and piping are tied to the facility ground circuit. Typically the utilization of acceptable communications over an electrical conductor requires a ground reference to which a voltage signal can differ. Without two conductors a difference can not exist and hence the piping and ducting approaches were marginal at best.

All components of the man portable communications system of the invention are made and packaged to survive in harsh environments where communications subsystems are used. Modifications and alternate embodiments of communications system of the invention can be adapted from other low cost commercial off the shelf and government off the shelf inventories for other applications. In addition to the adaptive and highly functional communications system described communication system of the invention could have different electronics packages to create other reliable cost effective systems.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. Communications system of the invention gives boarding team members a real time communication capability to successfully complete a mission and reduce the hazards usually attendant such operations. Therefore system of the invention as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.

It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

