---

title: Microfabricated thermal modulator for comprehensive 2D gas chromatography
abstract: A two-dimensional gas chromatography system having first and second separation columns, a thermal modulator disposed between the first and second columns and having a plurality of stage channels, and a micro heater monolithically integrated in the thermal modulator. The thermal modulator is operable to trap and focus gas/vapor species within the plurality of stage channels upon cooling and release the gas/vapor species to the second column upon heating by the micro heater.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08607615&OS=08607615&RS=08607615
owner: The Regents of The University of Michigan
number: 08607615
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101018
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 252 813 filed on Oct. 19 2009. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. NNG 06GA89G and EEC9986866 awarded by the Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation respectively. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to thermal modulators and more particularly relates to a robust high speed miniaturized thermal modulator for comprehensive 2D gas chromatography.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

Comprehensive two dimensional gas chromatography GC GC is an analytical technique used to separate and detect the components of complex mixtures of volatile organic compounds. Unlike standard gas chromatography which uses a single column for vapor separation GC GC couples a first dimension column to a relatively short second dimension column whose retention properties are complementary to those of the first dimension column. Through a junction point modulator between the two columns mixture components partially separated on the first dimension column are focused and reinjected as a series of narrow pulses onto the second dimension column. This results in an increase in peak capacity i.e. the number of compounds that can be separated in a given analysis and in sensitivity as a 2 D chromatogram is produced. The term comprehensive refers to the fact that none of the originally injected sample is lost during the modulated separation process.

A pneumatic or thermal modulator TM is used at the interface between the two columns with the latter generally providing a greater degree of sensitivity enhancement. A thermal modulator relies on low temperature to trap and focus the analytes as they elute from the first dimension column and then reintroduces them to the second dimension column by rapid heating. By repeating this operation in rapid succession the vapor profile is parsed into several segments each of which is eluted through the second dimension column. Thermal modulators which are used in conventional bench scale GC GC systems can be grouped into a thick stationary phase film modulator and a cryogenic modulator. In the former analytes are focused in a small section of capillary by the polymeric phase at ambient temperature. The latter uses a cryogenically cooled fluid such as CO N or air.

The two types of thermal modulators commonly use conductive or convective heating techniques to rapidly raise the temperature of the modulator. However those macro scale thermal modulators relying on cryogenically cooled fluids are resource intensive and or demand a large amount of refrigeration work e.g. 10 kJ for a cooling cycle of 5 s . Furthermore power dissipation for typical heating devices can be on the order of 1 kW. Numerous efforts have been made to develop gas chromatography prototypes containing microfabricated components GC . These miniaturized systems and their components can operate at relatively low power however the lengths of the columns employed are inherently limited with typical columns ranging in length from 0.5 to 3 metres. Accordingly this places an inherent limit on the peak capacity. A GC system incorporating two dimensional gas chromatography i.e. GC GC is a promising approach to overcome this limitation. Although a preliminary report has recently been described on the use of pneumatic modulation in a GC GC system there has yet to be a report on a microfabricated thermal modulator TM for GC GC applications. To be effective the microfabricated thermal modulator TM must span a broad range of temperature e.g. 50 to 250 C. at a very high rate 1000 C. s ideally during both heating and cooling .

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

The present teachings disclose a microfabricated thermal modulator TM which plays a critical role in a comprehensive two dimensional gas chromatography GC GC system. The GC GC operation requires the use of two columns i.e. conduits to separate highly complex mixtures of organic vapor gas compounds based on differences in their both volatility and polarity. In the thermal modulator TM between the two columns the flow speed of gas vapor species is highly dependent on the temperature. At low temperature the TM traps and focuses the species from the first column at high temperature it reintroduces them to the second column by cyclic high speed temperature modulation to dissect their profiles into narrow band cuts. These functions can prevent recombination and elution order change of the species when the species move from the first to the second column. The device is the first miniaturized thermal modulator based on micro electro mechanical MEMS technology. The microfabricated thermal modulator TM developed in accordance with the principles of the present teachings will further enable future development of a low power low cost ultraportable micro scale GC GC system e.g. the use of microfabricated first and second dimension columns .

Previously reported modulator designs used a bulky rotating slotted heater or a cryojet of low temperature coolant gas that periodically passes along a segment of constantly cooled or heated TM channel for the thermal modulation. However the conventional TMs lack mechanical fidelity require a large amount of consumable coolants or are power intensive. In comparison the microfabricated thermal modulator TM of the present teachings has no moving parts and uses no consumable coolants. The device is based on a two stage design which achieves very sharp sample pulses i.e. signal enhancement and low sample losses e.g. due to breakthrough see below . Integrated stationary on chip micro heaters are utilized for heating the micro stage channels. The entire device is attached to a solid state thermoelectric cooler maintained at low temperature with a 1 100 m air gap such as a 20 m air gap. In some embodiments the silicon channels of each stage are fabricated using deep reactive ion etching DRIE and sealed with a thin cover member. Notably the device exhibits fast thermal response and low power consumption due to its drastically smaller size and high thermal isolation.

According to the principles of the present teachings a two dimensional gas chromatography system is provided having first and second columns a thermal modulator disposed between the first and second columns and having a plurality of stage channels and a micro heater operably coupled with the thermal modulator. The thermal modulator is operable to trap and focus gas vapor species within the plurality of stage channels upon cooling and release the gas vapor species to the second column upon heating by the micro heater.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

According to some embodiments of the present disclosure the design fabrication modeling and testing of a microfabricated thermal modulator TM that incorporates two series coupled serpentine Pyrex on Si micro channel stages that are cyclically cooled to trap and focus vapors and then sequentially heated to desorb them are provided. According to these teachings two stage modulation is adopted where analytes trapped in the first stage are thermally released into the cooled second stage for additional focusing prior to injection into the second dimension column of the two dimensional gas chromatography system. In addition the second stage is not heated until the first stage has cooled to a temperature sufficient for trapping. This alternative heating and cooling of these stages helps to avoid breakthrough whereby a sample is lost due to incomplete trapping during thermal transitions which is a potential problem with single stage modulator designs.

An emphasis is placed on three design parameters that govern the heat capacity of the device structure of the present teachings and the rate at which heat energy is transported between stages and from each stage to the environment 1 the thickness of the cover member that seals the silicon micro channel stages of the microfabricated thermal modulator 2 the air gap between the cooling unit and the microfabricated thermal modulator and 3 the interconnection channel IC that connects the two stages and the rim. The effects of varying these parameters on the device performance are discussed herein where the trade off between the heating cooling cycle speed and the power requirement as well as the thermal crosstalk between the two stages are carefully considered.

According to the principles of the present teachings and with reference to the figures generally a microfabricated thermal modulator TM is used in a two dimensional gas chromatography system GC GC as illustrated in . Specifically two dimensional gas chromatography system GC GC comprises a first dimension column coupled to a second dimension column whose retention properties are complementary to those of the first dimension column . The microfabricated thermal modulator TM is operably disposed between first dimension column and second dimension column wherein mixture components incompletely separated on the first dimension column are received and then focused and reinjected as a series of narrow pulses onto the second dimension column .

With reference to microfabricated thermal modulator TM comprises a first stage and a second stage being interconnected via an interconnection channel IC . In some embodiments by way of non limiting example the first stage and the second stage can comprise meander line micro channels created in boron doped Si defining an area of about 2 mm 2 mm or less. In some embodiments the micro channels of first stage can be 4.2 cm long with cross sectional dimensions of 250 m wide and 140 m high having a wall thickness in the range of 10 30 m or more particularly 10 20 m . Similarly second stage can be 2.8 cm long with cross sectional dimensions of 250 m wide and 140 m high having a wall thickness in the range of 10 30 m or more particularly 10 20 m . The interconnection channel can comprise three segments such that first segment A and second segment B connect first stage and second stage each to a rim portion respectively and third segment C connects first stage and second stage together. The three channel segments A B C can have the same length which can vary from 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm in different device designs and the same wall thickness in the range of 10 30 m or more particularly 10 20 m . However it should be understood that segments A B C can also have differing dimensions to tailor specific design criteria.

It should be noted that a reduced material space is disposed between rim portion and first stage second stage and segments A B C. This reduced material space reduces the thermal mass of microfabricated thermal modulator TM and further permits improved thermal isolation of first stage second stage and segments A B C relative to each other and to rim portion .

In some embodiments as illustrated in . microfabricated thermal modulator TM can further comprise one or more cover members coupled to and sealing each of the first stage and second stage such as through anodic bonding . It should be noted that in some embodiments cover members can be made of PYREX glass. In some embodiments cover members can be in the range of 1 200 m thick or more particularly in the range of 40 100 m thick. Moreover in some embodiments the micro channels of first stage and second stage can be made of a polymer or metal and cover member can be made of a dielectric.

Additionally one or more micro heaters and optional temperature sensors not shown made of Ti Pt for example can be patterned directly on the cover members for generation of localized heating. Microfabricated Si spacers can be used to create an air gap between the microfabricated thermal modulator TM and the top surface of a thermoelectric cooler . In some embodiments air gap can be in the range of 0 100 m or more particularly in the range of 22 63 m. In some embodiments thermoelectric cooler can be a SP2394 cooler available from Marlow industries. Si spacers can be bonded using an epoxy adhesive onto the cover members . In some embodiments the Si spacers can be separately fabricated by a two step silicon deep reactive ion etching process or could be made of another material. Finally the microfabricated thermal modulator TM can be mounted on a printed circuit board or other substrate and wire bonded for electrical connection.

Still further in some embodiments one or more rim heaters can be coupled to rim portion generally adjacent to an inlet and an outlet of microfabricated thermal modulator TM . Rim heaters can be used to elevate and or modulate the temperature of rim portion as it has been found that the elevated temperature of rim portion can advantageously affect the peak sharpness in the chromatogram of the modulated vapor gas. Through experimental analysis it was found that use of rim heating a 50 fold peak height enhancement in 10 ppm n octane vapor can be realized.

In some embodiments the internal surface of one or more of the segments A B C can be dynamically coated with polydimethylsiloxane PDMS from a solution 0.10 g mLin 1 1 pentane dichloromethane that also contained a thermally activated cross linking agent dicumyl peroxide 1 mg mL . Dynamic coating entails applying a positive pressure of nitrogen gas to a reservoir containing the polymer solution and directing it through the device. Nitrogen flow was maintained for two 2 hours after the solution passed through the device to evaporate the solvent. Cross linking was achieved by temporarily sealing the inlet and outlet ports of the thermal modulator and heating to 180 C. with the integrated heaters. Although the short capillary sections connected to the device may also be coated during this process they do not affect the device performance or the chromatographic separation of the analytes significantly.

To substantiate the present design various aspects of the design and or environment were varied to determine their effect on the operation and optimization of microfabricated thermal modulator TM .

To efficiently trap the eluting vapors and introduce them to the second dimension column in a narrow band fast cooling and heating are necessary with low heating and cooling power. It was thus an aspect of the present teachings to minimize thermal response time and heating power required. For practical reasons related to microfabrication a focus was placed on cover member thicknesses of 40 and 100 m and the experimental data was compared to theoretical prediction. Initially the microfabricated thermal modulator TM was approximately at 55 C. by the cooling unit. When a constant voltage was applied for a 150 ms duration the first stage was heated and reached its maximum temperature then it cooled down to 55 C. after cessation of the voltage. As expected the device with the thinner cover member was raised to a higher temperature for a given applied voltage. It required only 62 of the average power required for the thicker membrane device i.e. 6.8 W vs. 11 W to achieve a temperature of 200 C. For the experimental data the time evolution of power was directly measured from the applied current and the voltage and for the theoretical prediction it was calculated from the electrical resistance and the voltage at the micro heater . Then the average heating powers were obtained from the area of heating power curve divided by the duration of the voltage pulse. It was determined that the thinner cover member also permits a faster cooling response with the time constant for cooling being about half of that for the device with the thicker cover members i.e. 0.24 s vs. 0.46 s .

A linear relationship was found between time constant and the cover member thickness. The time constant is proportional to the thermal mass M and is inversely proportional to the thermal conductance G by the heat transfer terms i.e. M G . The cover member thickness generally affects both Mand G. Even though the values of heat conduction through the cover member and the interconnection channel change with the cover member thickness thermal conductance G shows little change because the heat transfer via the air gap which is only governed by the air gap size is the dominant term in the heat transfer. As a result the change of the time constant is mainly dependent on thermal mass M . Thus the time constant is linearly proportional to the thickness of cover member .

Additionally the thickness of air gap was studied to determine its effects on the heating and cooling responses of microfabricated thermal modulator TM . The thermal response of the first stage for two representative air gaps 22 m and 63 m was measured based upon applying 35 V to the micro heater for 100 ms. Notably the temperature increase was smaller for the device with the smaller air gap. Accordingly the power required to reach a maximum temperature of 210 C. was calculated to be 11.5 W with the smaller air gap and 7.2 W with the larger gap. It was also determined that the theoretical average heating power required for reaching the same maximum temperature of the first stage increases sharply with the decreasing air gap .

On the other hand the narrower air gap resulted in faster cooling. It was found that a narrow air gap enhances the cooling speed at the expense of higher heating power. By way of non limiting example it was found that initially setting the air gap small down to 22 m is a practically viable approach because 1 once microfabricated thermal modulator TM is set it is difficult to change the size of air gap while the power can be easily controlled and 2 the power consumption is found to be still at an acceptable level even for the narrow air gap of 22 m.

Although the heating of one of the stages naturally influences the temperature at the other stage this thermal crosstalk should be minimized to independently control the temperatures of the two stages . To achieve this goal the air gap was varied from 22 to 38 m and the length of interconnection channel from 0.5 to 1.5 m based on theoretical modeling and experimental data indicating that these would provide a reasonable tradeoff between thermal response speed and heating power consumption and would also provide acceptable vapor modulation performance. Specifically an air gap 40 m yielded a cooling time from 250 to 50 C. of 1 s while an air gap 13 W to heat from 55 to 250 C. Also an interconnection channel longer than 1.5 mm resulted in broader vapor peaks because of the large temperature gradient inside the interconnection channel .

It was found that the length of interconnection channel affects the thermal crosstalk more than the air gap thickness in these ranges. For a first stage maximum temperature T of 1200 C. the maximum temperature rise of the second stage T varied from 9 to 11 C. with the air gap varying from 22 to 38 m for the interconnection channel length fixed at 1.5 mm whereas Tchanged from 9 to 19 C. with the interconnection channel length varying from 1.5 mm to 0.5 mm with the air gap fixed at 22 m. Furthermore the thermal crosstalk which is defined as T T 100 was maintained at 9.2 at T 200 C. even for the worst case where the interconnection channel length and the air gap were 0.5 mm and 38 m respectively.

The dominant effect of the interconnection channel C length on the thermal crosstalk can be explained by comparing dissipated thermal energies. The energy storage rate of the second stage balances with the other heat transfer parameters. However it should be understood that the conductive heat transfer between the first stage and second stage via interconnection channel C and the heat transfer between the second stage and the thermoelectric cooler via the air gap are the major contributors to the temperature of the second stage . Therefore if one considers these two terms for additional analysis one can estimate the effects of the air gap and the length of interconnection channel C on the maximum temperature rise of the second stage T by considering dissipated energies rather than energy change rates because Trepresents an energy state determined by the thermal history. Thus by comparing the ratio of the two dissipated energies at T it was determined that regardless of the values used for the length of interconnection channel C and air gap the ratio of the two dissipated energies remain at a value of about 3 indicating that the length of interconnection channel C has the greatest effect on thermal crosstalk between first stage and second stage .

It should be appreciated from the foregoing that that a MEMS based microfabricated thermal modulator TM is provided for use in comprehensive two dimensional separations of complex mixtures of volatile organic compounds provides several unique advantages. At least some of the unique advantages of the microfabricated thermal modulator TM include 1 low power consumption where the power is two orders of magnitude smaller than that of the conventional benchtop thermal modulators 2 low thermal crosstalk between first stage and second stage and between stages and rim portion and 3 no need for cryogenic consumables for cooling. These unique features constitute a significant advantage over current thermal modulator techniques.

As discussed herein advantage 1 is enabled by the low thermal mass or alternatively thermal capacitance of the microfabricated thermal modulator TM . The low thermal mass results from the design incorporating in some embodiments small on chip stages of less than about 2 mm 2 mm in area a thin channel wall of about 10 20 m in thickness and a thin cover member with a thickness of about 40 100 m. However in some embodiments a thin channel wall of about 1 40 m in thickness and a thin cover member with a thickness of about 1 200 m can be used. Also because of the low thermal conductivity of the cover member particularly when made as a Pyrex membrane 1.1 W m K the heat generated by the integrated micro heaters is efficiently confined within the stages thereby resulting in the fast heating performance during the thermal modulation cycle. These miniaturized device features are made possible by the MEMS technology and design of the present teachings.

Advantage 2 is realized by providing a microfabricated interconnection channel IC between the two stages which in some embodiments has a channel wall thickness of 10 20 m and a length of 0.5 1.5 mm. In some embodiments a channel wall thickness of 1 40 m and a length of 0.4 2.0 mm can be used. This design enhances high thermal isolation between the stages and between the rim and the stages so the independent temperature control between the two stages is possible. The rim heaters are constantly turned on during the alternating activation of the stages.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

