---

title: System and method for immersive process design collaboration on mobile devices
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention may provide a method for presenting a design model on a computing device. The method may comprise using a computer processor to identify relationships among a plurality of model entities of the design model, to present a model view area to display a selected view of the design model on a display area of the computing device; and to present a view switch containing a plurality of view options. The plurality of view options may include a shape flow view. In the shape flow view, the model view area may display a detailed view of a model entity currently in focus and symbol(s) representing neighboring model entities in horizontal and/or vertical directions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949736&OS=08949736&RS=08949736
owner: SAP SE
number: 08949736
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20101015
---
The disclosed subject matter relates to the field of process design software applications and more particularly to a system and method for providing a process design collaboration on mobile devices.

Business process design is a highly collaborative task that requires different expert skills such as understanding the problem domain at hand knowing modeling languages e.g. Business Process Modelling Notation BPMN UML sequence diagrams and event driven process chains EPC having an overview onto the underlying IT landscape being familiar with the organization s strategic goals knowing the process surrounding conditions and constraints etc. In essence a number of people need to contribute their expertise to model or to re engineer a business process. Those contributors may both 1 assume different functional roles within one organization such as business analysts domain experts IT professionals etc. or 2 be representatives of different organizations within a full blown network orchestration scenario where multiple business partners need to collaborate and the process stretches beyond organizational boundaries.

Information technology has been assisting the business process design collaboration. For example web based tools have been developed that allow multiple geographically dispersed people to jointly create and change a process model at the same time using desktop computers or laptops. Each contributor sees the other peoples changes in near real time thus eliminating the need to work on separate copies of the model. The key advantage of this approach over working on different model copies is that each contributor immediately sees other people s changes while still being able to work independently without being blocked by someone else s changes. Apart from that the tedious job of sorting out contradictions among contributions from different people and possibly having to fill gaps in a manual merging step is completely avoided. However the existing IT tools do not provide the proper support for the initial phases of collaborative process design projects.

The process design initiatives are often kicked off by letting the involved people meet face to face and discuss over approaches goals and scope. This is often necessary as many people with different functional background need to collaborate. Usually brainstorming sessions are conducted where participants write down their thoughts on paper notes that are stuck on a whiteboard. There they may be clustered e.g. by sticking them close to other notes expressing similar ideas prioritized e.g. by putting them on top of or above others possibly withdrawn e.g. removed from the whiteboard commented e.g. by writing on the whiteboard with a board marker mutually associated e.g. by drawing arrows between the notes etc.

After some discussion the team of experts will ultimately come to a conclusion that is documented on the white board. The paper notes themselves their arrangement and the associated drawings usually make up a rough initial process model. In some cases the team may have even sketched a proper process model using notations like BPMN. Although that model typically lacks details and needs to be refined and revised in later stages it is still worth to be preserved in order to not lose any findings or decisions made during the meeting. Usually someone from the team needs to take notes on a laptop computer or take a photo like by using his or her mobile phone of the white board itself. In the former case that person will not only have a hard time typing down all the information that is written on the whiteboard but he or she will deliberately or not also filter out or condense the information from a personal perspective. In the latter case where someone takes a photo of the paper based notes stuck on a white board that photo is almost useless when it comes to really start designing a process that needs to start over from scratch. This is because a photo merely captures analogous information where much of the meta data like who has added which note is lost. Further text written on the paper notes or directly on the white board is merely captured on the photo and not readily available in digital form. Optical character recognition may be error prone due to the handwriting and may not even be feasible at all.

People typically refrain from using existing web based collaboration tools during initial process design meetings. This is not only because it feels un natural to focus on interacting with a Web site displayed on a browser rather than talking to one another but mainly due to small screen restrictions the mobile devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones may only be able to show a small portion of the process model at a time. Although laptops provide certain mobility to members of a collaborative design team the requirement of all attendees to carry around laptops or have access to large screen devices e.g. desktop computers for collaboration on a design is still too restrictive.

In today s world ubiquitous mobile devices provide the most mobility. Accordingly a need exists for a method and system for providing collaborative process modeling to mobile devices.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide a method for presenting a design model on a computing device. The method may comprise using a computer processor to identify relationships among a plurality of model entities of the design model to present a model view area to display a selected view of the design model on a display area of the computing device and to present a view switch containing a plurality of view options. The plurality of view options may include a shape flow view. In the shape flow view the model view area may display a detailed view of a model entity currently in focus and symbol s representing neighboring model entities in horizontal and or vertical directions.

Embodiment of the present invention may extend the reach of modeling projects notably business process modeling to 1 users of mobile devices and 2 project stages beyond modeling such as initial brainstorming phases happening in face to face meetings and other stages e.g. process analysis review and signoff involving users at off site locations without access to stationary computers offering a full screen rendering of the process model e.g. at a customer facility or in transit .

In one embodiment a visualization of models based on directed graphs of attributed notes e.g. business process diagrams collections of notes etc. may be provided on a small screen for a mobile device. The visualization may take the limited rendering space into account while still providing for ways to explore and unambiguously understand the full model. In addition to visualization of models and model entities the embodiment may also provide user interaction patterns for browsing and altering the model based on techniques commonly used on mobile devices e.g. touch gestures tilt and movement tracking voice command . Further the embodiment may be plugged into an existing infrastructure for collaborative process modeling e.g. a web based collaborative process design tool . As a result users may use a diverse variety of tools e.g. mobile clients including smart phone pad computer PDA or the like or stationary devices including desktop PCs having a Web browser installed while working on a design model.

In one embodiment the mobile clients may interaction with a collaboration server that may be jointly used with stationary Web based clients. Mobile clients may interact with the collaboration server through standard Web protocols e.g. HTTP WebSockets atop wired or wireless connections e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth LAN WAN or cell phone connections . In addition mobile clients may re use portions of the client code for stationary clients thus significantly reducing the total cost of development TCD . The re used client code may be for example lower level code underneath the UI logic level that takes care of interacting with the collaboration server and synchronizing a local model replica to the central model copy which may be held and maintained by the collaboration server .

Moreover embodiments of the present invention may provides for a number of visualization and user interaction browsing editing methods that both fit to a small screen and the means of operate a mobile device. For example one exemplary implementation may designate three distinct ways a model can be visualized and interacted with 1 a list of model entities e.g. BPMN shapes that are grouped and ordered by changeable custom criteria e.g. order by label creation date etc. group by author entity type proximity clusters etc. 2 a visualization of the entire model or a subset by rendering a downscaled diagram and additionally providing for zoom in zoom out capabilities and 3 a full screen visualization of single model entities or groups of model entities aggregated on a single screen such as a BPMN shape plus comments and attachments that belong to that shape where motions gestures e.g. swipes allow for navigating to neighboring entities where the neighboring relation can take node associations or shape proximity into account .

Further embodiment of the present invention may offer added value collaboration features for example to invite modeling project participants by sending emails or giving phone calls to other people and to capture data from built in sensors camera GPS unit microphone etc. and applications e.g. Web browser email client etc. which can be attached to a model. In one embodiment users may take photos of some physical infrastructure that is referred to in the model e.g. a manufacturing line that performs a task in a business process and store the photos with the model e.g. attached to a model entity .

The collaboration server may serve as a repository for a collaborative design process. For example the collaboration server may provide a backend storage where a central model e.g. a BPMN diagram a collection of virtual paper notes or any other kind of structured information that can be mapped onto a directed graph of attributed notes may be held. The collaboration server may coordinate a dynamic number of clients mobile and stationary devices that are used by participants in the collaboration project by using a synchronization approach based on a known mechanism e.g. Operational Transformation . For example each of the plurality of client devices e.g. the PDA the smart phone the pad device may have a local replica of the central model and may independently perform changes to their respective local model replicas. That is each client may hold a local copy of the model upon which may perform its changes. Those changes may happen in an asynchronous non blocking manner. When a client device sends changes made locally to the collaboration server the collaboration server may 1 check incoming changes against changes of other clients before they can be applied to the central model which may entail transforming the operations against changes that have come in from other clients if needed or rejecting them altogether if they are contradicting changes of another client 2 apply them to the central model and 3 broadcast them to the other clients which may apply them to their local models.

Although the plurality of client devices may include a variety of physical hardware in terms of software all clients may share some common parts which are independent from the user interface. For example the plurality of client devices may share a generic model that represents a directed graph of attributed nodes key value pairs and a controller component that takes care of interacting with the collaboration server . Sharing common parts may reduce total cost of development TCD and total cost of ownership TCO because it may re use code and reduce the cost of development. As a result maintenance support costs may also be reduced.

In one embodiment that generic model may come with a lightweight create read update delete CRUD application programming interface API offering functionality to both retrieve and alter the model state such as adding new and deleting existing nodes setting attribute values adding and removing atomic and list valued references . Further the generic model may come with a listener API that allows for registering callback functions that are invoked whenever the model may be changed either locally or when applying a remote change operation that was received from the collaboration server . The controller may provide the operational aspects of the collaboration that submits and receives operations and also may implement the lifecycle management and failover features of the client including logging in off to from the coordinator and be recovered upon logon. In addition to the aforementioned listener API on top of the model the controller also may allow for registering callback functions that are invoked at various points in the clients lifecycle e.g. after recovery when being logged off etc. .

In one embodiment the client components may be based on scripting language e.g. ECMAScript and implemented as a Web based collaborative BPMN editor. The collaboration server may implement a single coordinator entity for a variety of clients e.g. web browser based clients for stationary devices and custom clients for mobile devices . Further the mobile devices e.g. the PDA the smart phone the pad device may provide visualization and user interaction patterns for every stage of a collaborative design process. In one embodiment the stages may include brainstorming process analysis process modeling review and signoff finalization of a process model.

Brainstorming may be the initial stage where project participants need to agree on the scope timeline purpose and the goals of the project. The project participants also need to define their roles and come to a mutual understanding of one another s contributions. Although the brainstorming session s traditionally have been conducted in face to face meetings the mobile devices of the present invention e.g. the PDA the smart phone the pad device may help participants to participate e.g. presenting ideas taking notes preserve the findings of that meeting for later project phases while they are in transit. In addition the mobile devices may also help the project participants meeting in the same room to participate.

After the brainstorming before the project participants can commence modeling they may need to analyze the process first in a process analysis stage. During this process analysis state various process parameters and boundary conditions may be captured which may include resources interfaces inputs and outputs key performance indicators KPIs and service level agreements SLAs involved roles functions events etc. This stage of the modeling process may be complicated in that participants may call same things differently different things the same have impartial knowledge of the process to be modeled and different views on how the process should be executed and modeled accordingly. Unmitigated disagreement at this stage may negatively affect later stages of the modeling process.

Although there may be some overlap with the brainstorming phase process analysis is about content whereas the initial brainstorming phase is about administrative issues and project level meta information. Process analysis may already happen outside face to face meetings and may entail capturing an as is process where it really happens. For the latter sensors of mobile devices for example cameras of the PDA the smart phone the pad device may be used to record some process information.

Subsequent to the process analysis the actual design work may happen during a process modeling stage where participants build up a process model that documents the outcome of the project. Participants may be located in different time zones and may work on the model at different points in time using one or more of the desktop computer the laptop the PDA the smart phone the pad device . The process modeling stage is to bootstrap the process from the notes and findings that were gathered during the brainstorming and analysis phases.

Once the project has progressed to a state where a process model exists that addresses all requirements that were identified in the brainstorming phase it needs to be reviewed in a review and signoff stage e.g. by some customer stakeholders business partners line managers process owners etc. . Reviewers may comment on the current state although they do not alter the process themselves. As a result process modeling may need to be continued to incorporate the reviewers comments.

After the process model is signed off during a finalization stage it may be handed over to some successor activity. That may include automating the process in some Business process management BPM suite or re engineering a real world procedure by using the process as a blueprint. In any case the process diagram needs to be forwarded to another party for instance by sending it through email.

The search field may let a user search for key words that are contained in model entities. In one embodiment if one or multiple matching entities exist the screen layout may automatically navigate to the first match. The user may progressively skip ahead to successive matches until no further matches exist. Also the user may place a bookmark on a match allowing for easily retrieving that entity again at a later point in time. In another embodiment a list of the matching entities may be displayed by the screen layout and the user may navigate to any matching entities by scrolling and clicking on the entity.

The model view area may occupy a major portion of the screen layout . The model view area may render any model being worked on or rather a portion thereof like a single entity . At the bottom of the screen the perspective switch may include a plurality of buttons to let a user switch between different rendering schemes. In one embodiment three views and interaction schemes may be provided a global view button may provide a birds eye view on the whole diagram a grouped view button may provide a grouped view of model entities shown in a list with multiple groups and a shape flow view button may provide a two dimensional shape flow view for natural diagram navigation based on entity proximity or associations.

The global view may render a complete model diagram or significant portions thereof instead of only single entities. It may resemble a traditional model editor and may offer editing features. For small screen devices the global view may provide a means of getting a full impression of the process and drilling down into details where required. In one embodiment the global view may complement the two other views thus will not be the only view supported. The two other views and interaction schemes are shown in subsequent figures and will be described in details below.

In one embodiment the screen layout may be a generic screen layout specifically tailored to small screen mobile devices. It should be noted that the screen layout is only an example visualization for mobile clients. Actual implementations may deviate from the given layout and organize the screen differently. The screen layout may be adjusted to the size of the mobile device that is small enough to be held by a single hand and to also fit into a small pocket. The mobile device implementing the screen layout may be any one of the PDA smart phone or the pad device shown in . It should be noted that even though smart phone screens may have recently been improved in terms of their resolution i.e. pixel density the size as such may remain limited. Thus any visual rendering on those screens may be limited in details and may display limited information at a time.

Further the screen layout may rely on touch gestures where users interact with control buttons on the screen by touching them. Beyond simply touching the screen a number of touch gestures using one two or more fingers exist such as wiping tapping etc. Moreover the mobile device implementing the screen layout may come with a number of built in sensors for varying purpose for example a high resolution camera that allows for taking photos and recording videos a microphone that lets one record audio signals music sound speech a GPS receiver that determines the current geographical coordinates a gyroscope by means of which the tilt and movement of the device can be tracked. In one or more embodiments other sensors such as proximity brightness temperature and air pressure detectors may additionally exist and be used e.g. to attach environmental data to the process model .

The additional actions provided under the more actions button of may be referred to second level actions. illustrates an exemplary screen display for second level actions on a mobile device according to an embodiment. The screen layout may comprise a back button to return to a previous screen display and buttons for second level actions. The second level actions supported by the screen display may include attaching documents inviting someone to the collaboration storing model content in an email folder and editing personal settings. In one or more embodiments those actions may be split into multiple screens or presented in a different way.

As shown in the buttons for attaching documents may include a photo button a video button an audio button an email button a web site button and a map button . The documents may include data originating from the devices sensors e.g. photos videos audio recordings etc. and other programs installed on the device emails links to web sites map sections etc. . The buttons for inviting someone to the collaboration may include a search field to search contact information in an address book for the invitee an email button to send an email and a phone call button to give a phone call to invite the invitee. The buttons for editing personal settings may include a edit personal details button to edit personal settings such as adding changing a thumbnail image .

Content of a model entity currently worked on by a user may be saved into a personal email folder e.g. in BPMN format with a collection of notes or a full blown BPMN diagram . The buttons for storing model content in an email folder may include a BPMN button for exporting the current model state as BPMN 2.0 exchange file an HTML button to export the model content as HTML page s and another button to export the model content in an industry standard format e.g. PDF document s . Other formats are conceivable and so is the way the document is stored. In one embodiment email may be the most straightforward way of preserving model copies for both personal re use and forwarding models to non participating people.

In one embodiment the model domain may determine which entity types may be available. In the given example scenario those would be BPMN entities i.e. activities gateways events etc. for proper process modeling resource style annotations e.g. roles KPIs SLAs materials cost etc. for process analysis and notes like paper notes for brainstorming or review purposes. Further model entities may be morphed into other entity types for example transitioning from a collection of grouped notes i.e. the outcome of the brainstorming phase to a baseline process where single notes are changed into process entities e.g. BPMN activities . Other notes may stay like notes and merely serve as decorations of the process that is being modeled.

In one embodiment the example outcome may be rendered in a list. That is model entities may be displayed above one another and users can scroll through that list view. This way of presenting models not only caters to a good overview of what is contained in the model but also is the only viable way of rendering the model on very small screens like traditional mobile phones . Model entities may be ordered according to some flexible ordering criteria like 

Users may switch between those ordering criteria to obtain multiple perspectives onto the model which helps in understanding multiple aspects of that model.

In one or more embodiments further to simply ordering model entities entities may also be grouped into distinct clusters. Inside those clusters one of the aforementioned ordering criteria may apply again in fact different clusters may employ different internal ordering criteria . The various criteria for clustering may include 

It should be noted that the above listed criteria for ordering and clustering are examples and additional sorting and grouping criteria and algorithms may be applied.

In one embodiment a k means clustering algorithm may be applied to the model entities of . As shown in the interfaces note and resources note may be close in distance and grouped in one cluster the process start note production scheduling note and process end note may be close in distance and grouped in a different cluster. These two clusters may be shown in the exemplary user interface of . The user interface may be a user interface based on the screen layout and like reference numerals may refer to the same elements. Descriptions of the like reference numerals with respect to are applicable to and are not repeated.

In one embodiment rendering a graph based model on a small screen may be to present the model entities of in a list and shows an example. As shown in the user interface for a mobile device may illustrate the list of model entities in two clusters and in the model view area . The user interface may further include two drop down selection switches and above the perspective switch . The cluster may include three entities the process start note production scheduling note and process end note . The cluster may include two entities the interfaces note and resources note . In one embodiment each cluster may be rated by how close the entities of the cluster are positioned. For example the interfaces note and resources note may be more positioned very close and the clustering may be rated as excellent. The process start note production scheduling note and process end note may be positioned not as close as the interfaces note and resources note and thus the clustering may be rated as good. 

The two drop down selection switches and may allow a user to choose how to show the model entities. In one embodiment the drop down selection switch may allow a user to select from different criteria to group the model entities such as group by proximity. The drop down selection switch may allow a user to select from different criteria to list the model entities such as order by title. As described above a variety of criteria may be implemented and the drop down selection switches may provide an easy access to select desired criteria for grouping listing or both.

In one embodiment a list view may use the lane association of a model entity e.g. BPMN activity as the grouping criterion resulting in two groups. For ordering the entities within the group a depth first traversal may give an excellent reflection of how the process is structured. As a result the model may be rendered with group for the customer role that contains the tasks of place order and receive invoice and group for the manufacturer role that contains the tasks of receive order production scheduling fulfilment and send invoice . In another embodiment a pure depth ordering may give an overall sequence of model entities within the process and thus the entities may not need to be clustered.

In one or more embodiments a grouped view i.e. list based model view may be the rendering of choice for certain conditions for example small screens with restricted rendering space getting a quick overview of the entire model grouping and ordering model entities by various criteria e.g. re grouping and or re ordering on the fly when grouping ordering criteria is changed by a user notes resulting from the brainstorming phase and or simple process models having few back edges or splits merges of control flow edges. The grouped view may show the content of each entity and grouping ordering relationships among the model entities.

In one embodiment the entity may be a node in a design model and the stacks of entities and may represent neighboring entities of the model in a collapsed and folded way. As shown in the neighboring entities may be stacked on the four boundary sides of the current model entity . Therefore a user may swipe a touch screen or move the device e.g. by motion tilting to navigate horizontally left or right or vertically up or down to a neighbouring entity from one of the stacks .

While a grouped view e.g. may list the whole model content with certain proximity and ordering information the exemplary shape flow view may present the design model with spatial relationships in a visual representation. As shown in the model view area may represent a zoomed in two dimensional drawing pane focused on one particular entity. Other neighboring entities may be stacked according to their relations to the current model entity in focus. In one or more embodiments the exemplary shape flow view may provide two dimensional navigation based on four quadrant spatial classification of neighboring model entities or one to two dimensional navigation based on directed inter entity association e.g. control flow edges data flow edges etc. .

The spatial model segmentation may be used for model entities that have few if any associations among one another for example spatially arranged notes resulting from a brainstorming phase or resource annotations on those notes added in the process analysis phase. The One to two dimensional navigation may be useful for process diagrams where most entities may be interconnected in some way associated to other model entities either through edges having different semantics e.g. control flow data flow message flow other associations . Typically there may be few if any free floating unconnected entities in a design so that a process designer can navigate between any two entities by following associations possibly traversing an association chain to reach a certain model entity . The grouped view and shape flow view may also be mixed to cater for diagrams that contain both connected and unconnected i.e. unassociated entities.

In one embodiment the exemplary shape flow view may be a generic flow view based on a perspective of a node and may preserve the spatial relationships to a wide degree on a small screen device to without rendering the whole model on a single screen. Further the exemplary shape flow view may render a single model entity including full details at a time display neighboring entities either in terms of proximity or with respect to some association type stacked and collapsed at the left right bottom and top of the current entity and use touch gestures swiping to the left right bottom or top of the screen to navigate to a neighboring entity.

In at least one embodiment a user browsing the model using a shape flow view may also have a cursor placed onto the model entity that is currently focused. A cursor may be another model entity which may indicate that a particular user has browsed to a specific model entity. A global rendering of the model like in the birds eye perspective may show this cursor e.g. shadowing highlighting or painting a frame around the focused model element . This kind of visual feedback in the global view may allow for using the mobile device in a remote control like manner like a pointing device which may be useful when projecting the global view i.e. the whole diagram happens at the same time at the same place or at different places where a user browses the model with his or her mobile device. For example a user may give a presentation remotely to an audience viewing the model projected in a big display while the user may focus on an entity using a mobile device.

As described above the diagram space of a model may be split into four quadrants for example the four stacks of neighbouring elements of may be computed in an entity centric proximity based manner. illustrates an exemplary model view that may present a four quadrant spatial classification of neighboring model entities according to an embodiment. As shown in the exemplary model view may show the two dimensional exemplary model view being separated in four quadrants a top quadrant that may contain interfaces note and resources note a left quadrant that may be empty a right quadrant that may contain production scheduling note and a bottom quadrant that may contain a process end note . The process start note may be at a center. In one embodiment the four quadrants may be computed from a centered entity that is currently displayed.

From that Process start model entity in one embodiment that may support swiping one cannot swipe right as there are no entities on the left by swiping to the left the Production Scheduling entity may get focused by swiping to the top the Process end entity gets focused and by swiping downwards the Resources entity is focused. In this way a user may easily explore the model content. Further when adding a new entity while some other entity is currently focused that new entity will be placed beside the currently focused entity. In one embodiment an algorithm may add the new entity to a side by selecting the quadrant that has the least contained entities.

In one embodiment the shape flow view may allow browsing process models in a semantically meaningful way. For example a process model may be explored by either following the control flow connectors for an orchestration angled understanding of the process or traversing the message flow edges to understand the choreography aspects of the process . For example the flow shown in may be an association type to be consulted for computing the neighboring elements. For instance a BPMN element may have outgoing source of and incoming target of control flow edges. This plain transitive relation may be exploited to compute stacks of predecessor and successor model entities which can be shown on the left and right of the currently focused entity.

In one embodiment the control flow and message flow associations may be used interchangeably or even simultaneously e.g. two association types may be selected from a variety of types such as control flow data flow message flow etc. to be shown simultaneously . In another embodiment the association used for a shape flow view may be based on other associations like data flow connectors or annotation associations.

Some processes may be more complex than the process and may contain multiple i.e. more than one associations that a particular a model entity is source or target of. illustrates an exemplary process with multiple source and target associations in terms of flow control according to an embodiment. The exemplary process may be an extended variant of the process . The exemplary process may comprise design model entities of place order receive order production scheduling fulfilment send invoice receive invoice ship goods receive goods and payment . As shown in from the place order to the fulfilment the process has only one flow that is the process may start at place order then receive order then production scheduling and fulfilment . From the fulfilment the process may comprise two flows a first flow from the fulfilment to the send invoice then to the receive invoice and then ending at the payment and a second flow from the fulfilment to the ship goods then to the receive goods at and then ending at the payment .

As shown in the process any model entity may be a source and or a target of an association. Some entities such as the fulfilment may be a source for two associations and the payment may be a target for two associations. That is the two entities fulfilment and payment are either a source or a target of multiple associations control flow connectors . This situation may pose a challenge in two ways 1 where to navigate to when swiping left or right respectively and 2 how to be able to navigate to all successor or predecessor entities according to a particular association type e.g. control flow connections when some entities may have multiple successor or predecessor entities respectively. In one embodiment the first challenge may be solved by non deterministically choosing some successor predecessor entity for example choosing any one of the first middle or last successor or predecessor. The second challenge may be solved by crossing screens and second level navigation as described below according to embodiments of the present invention.

In one embodiment the shape flow views according to an exemplary embodiment may provide navigation according to two association types using the same visualization. That is two dimensions of navigation may be used for two different association types respectively for example horizontal navigation for control flow and vertical navigation for message flow. illustrate an exemplary shape flow view according to an exemplary embodiment. The shape flow view may be a user interface based on the screen layout and like reference numerals may refer to the same elements. Descriptions of the like reference numerals with respect to are applicable to and are not repeated. As shown in the exemplary shape flow view may comprise a currently focused model entity e.g. the payment entity of and a left stack of model entities and a bottom stack of model entities . The horizontal navigation may be based on control flow and thus the left stack of model entities may indicate a crossing screen where the user can choose from the two predecessor entities of the receive goods entity and receive invoice entity according to the process . The vertical navigation may be based on message flow and thus the bottom stack of model entities may be the receive payment entity according to the process . Similar two dimensional navigation may also be provided to other entities that have both control flow and message flow connections e.g. the place order entity the receive order entity etc. . In one embodiment the navigation mechanism e.g. navigation via both control flow and message flow provide by the shape flow view may be used in combination with crossing screens to navigate a whole model.

In addition to crossing screens as described above embodiments of the present invention may take another approach for treating multiple incoming outgoing associations which may be referred to as second level navigation. In one or more embodiments the second level navigation may use a spare dimension for visiting sibling entities.

As shown in the navigation flow may start from the entity A of the screen display to the right stack of model entities . In one embodiment either of the entities A or B of the screen displays or may non deterministically be chosen. As shown in for example the entity B of the screen display may be chosen. From the entity B of the screen display the navigation flow may move back to the entity A of the screen display by swiping right or move to a sibling entity of the entity B of the screen display from the entity A of the screen display s perspective by swiping upwards which may be the entity C of the screen display . At the entity C of the screen display the navigation flow may either move back to the entity B of the screen display swipe downwards back to the entity A of the screen display swipe right or progress to the entity E of the screen display which is may be a successor of the entity C of the screen display . After moving to the entity E of the screen display by swiping left the example process may move to a predecessor for example the entity C of the screen display or the D entity of the model not shown .

In one embodiment when swiping right to navigate to a predecessor entity users may expect to be taken back to the entity from which they reached the currently focused entity. For example the entities B and C of the screen displays and may be sibling entities. If a user reaches entity E of the screen display by going this way A B C E. Although both C and D are predecessor entities of E when swiping right at the entity E at least one embodiment may go back to the entity C and shows the screen display . In other words the example process may depend on the predecessor entity i.e. the entity navigated from to determine the sibling entities. For that purpose in one embodiment the example process may keep track of the former entity. In another embodiment the example process may keep the full history of previously visited entities which would not only allow determining the sibling entities in the current context but also allow tracing back an entire navigation path in the same way that the example process may have progressed to the current state. In one or more embodiments regular browsing forward navigation and tracing back i.e. backward navigation may be distinguished. For example moving from one entity to another may be a backward navigation if the target entity is a topmost entity in the navigation history and it is removed from there once the navigation moves back otherwise it is a forward navigation and the new entity may be added to the history. In one embodiment the navigation history may function like a stack memory where entities may be added on top in case of forward navigation or removed in case of backward navigation . By removing the top elements one by one from the stack the entire path of navigating from one entity to another can be followed back in reverse order.

Second level navigation may provide an elegant way of browsing a model that feels natural for sibling entities and does not require crossing screens. In one embodiment a single type of associations may be used. However in some cases there are model fragments that may be disconnected from the rest of the model. In these cases embodiments according to the present invention may mix spatial navigation with association based navigation. For example in one embodiment when a boundary entity may be reached through association based navigation i.e. there are no incoming or outgoing associations pointing to other entities a crossing screen may be used to offer moving to another model fragment. The isolated model fragments may be indicated by showing another collapsed folded symbol e.g. may be used by replacing the two thumbnail images with symbols indicating isolated model fragments .

The processor is a programmable processor that executes instructions residing in the memory to receive and send data via the I O device s . The instructions may perform the operations of the application context and rule based UI control described herein. The term programmable processor as used herein is any programmable microprocessor or processor or combination of microprocessors or processors that can operate on digital data which may be special or general purpose processors coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a machine readable medium. According to one embodiment of the present invention processor may be an Intel microprocessor or a mobile CPU.

Memory is a machine readable medium that stores data that is processed by processor . The term machine readable medium as used herein is any addressable storage device that stores digital data including any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disc optical disc programmable logic device PLD tape hard drives RAID storage device flash memory or any combination of these devices . This may include external machine readable mediums that are connected to processor via one or more I O device s .

The I O device s may include one or more input output devices e.g. a touch screen a network adapter and interfaces that receive and or send digital data to and from an external device. Interfaces as used herein are any point of access to an external device where digital data is received or sent including ports buffers queues subsets thereof or any other interface to an external device.

Embodiments of the present invention provide effective collaborative business process modeling tools. Those tools may offer a plurality of features such as 1 browse other people s contributions model fragments comments attachments etc. and be notified of newly added contributions 2 add edit and delete contributions which entails writing comments modeling process artifacts uploading documents etc. 3 preserve the jointly crafted model by storing it centrally for later re use or by sending it to someone else through email 4 re arrange and associate contributions e.g. by visually grouping them close to one another drawing edges between them etc. and 5 smoothly integrate with tools e.g. a BPMS modeling environment used at later stages of the modeling process in order to provide holistic support. Moreover in at least one embodiment the tool s interaction patterns and visual appearance have been adapted to smaller screens of mobile devices to take advantage of touch interaction and a number of sensors e.g. GPS unit camera microphone compass gyroscope etc. may be built in on the mobile devices.

Embodiments of the present invention may also help to avoid costly coordination for synchronizing and aligning individual contributions among the project s participants and also may result in shorter time to market cycles for modeling projects. Further quality of the process models may be improved through automatically peer reviewed process models all participants effectively work on the same model . Participants from different locations and different time zones can jointly model a single process in a Web browser based interface

In one or more embodiments the reach of collaborative process modeling may be extended to mobile devices although the mobile devices may suffer from some restrictions such as a limited screen size less computing power constrained network bandwidth limited storage space and may differ greatly in the way they are used e.g. touch gestures vs. mouse clicks turning phones to another orientation to make more space for screen controls using the built in gyroscope to translate the device s tilt and movement into commands etc. . However mobile devices are inexpensive come with a number of built in sensors camera microphone GPS unit etc. are lightweight and thus convenient to carry along and can access the Internet including enterprise backend systems through firewalls from anywhere by dialing into mobile networks which cover much if not most of the world s surface. Furthermore smartphones and touchpads have penetrated groups of users that were previously not necessarily able to productively work on these devices.

The exemplary method and computer program instructions may be embodied on a machine readable storage medium such as a computer disc optically readable media magnetic media hard drives RAID storage device and flash memory. In addition a server or database server may include machine readable media configured to store machine executable program instructions. The features of the embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof and utilized in systems subsystems components or subcomponents thereof. When implemented in software the elements of the invention are programs or the code segments used to perform the necessary tasks. The program or code segments can be stored on machine readable storage media. The machine readable storage media may include any medium that can store information. Examples of a machine readable storage medium include electronic circuits semiconductor memory device ROM flash memory erasable ROM EROM floppy diskette CD ROM optical disk hard disk fiber optic medium or any electromagnetic or optical storage device. The code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as Internet Intranet etc.

Although the invention has been described above with reference to specific embodiments the invention is not limited to the above embodiments and the specific configurations shown in the drawings. For example some components shown may be combined with each other as one embodiment or a component may be divided into several subcomponents or any other known or available component may be added. The operation processes are also not limited to those shown in the examples. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be implemented in other ways without departing from the spirit and substantive features of the invention. For example features and embodiments described above may be combined with and without each other. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

