---

title: Sampling device for low volatility hazardous chemicals
abstract: A device for use with a detection means and a solvent source for sampling low volatility hazardous chemicals within a sample matrix is comprised of a sonicator having a probe for providing mechanical agitation to the sample matrix; means for transporting solvent gas from the solvent source to the sample matrix; means for transporting sample gas from the sample matrix to the detection means; and a heating element for heating the sample gas, solvent gas, and sample matrix. The device may include a thermocouple for providing a temperature reading. It also may include a plurality of interchangeable probe tips of different shapes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161797&OS=08161797&RS=08161797
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08161797
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100114
---
At present a number of handheld detectors are available for use in detecting hazardous vapors. These are used by fire fighters hazmat teams and others to detect the presence of toxic industrial chemicals explosive or flammable gases and chemical warfare agents. Examples of handheld detectors relevant to the present invention include but are not limited to products sold under the trademarks AP4C Proengin of France MINIRAE RAE Systems Inc. HGVI and LCD 3.2e both of Smiths Detection Inc. .

One limitation of such devices is that an adequate concentration of the analyte or chemical compound to be detected must be available to the sensor element of the detector. This can pose a problem with low volatility hazards such as certain chemical warfare agents. By way of example the nerve agent referred to as VX is a sulfonated organophosphorous compound that is highly lethal. VX however has a very low vapor pressure in the operational temperature ranges in which it must be detected. For example at 25 degrees Celsius C. VX has a vapor pressure of only 0.00063 millimeters of Mercury mm Hg . In comparison the vapor pressure of water at the same temperature is 23.8 mm Hg which is roughly 38 000 times that of VX. With such a low vapor pressure VX is difficult to detect with devices such as the detectors mentioned above. Samples taken for subsequent laboratory analysis suffer from the same problem. Accordingly what is needed is a low volatility hazard sampling device that when used with the available detection devices or laboratory instruments will provide an accurate and dependable determination of the presence of agent in the sample matrix even when such agent is of the low volatility type.

A device for use with a detection means and a solvent source for sampling low volatility hazardous chemicals within a sample matrix is comprised of a sonicator having a probe for providing mechanical agitation to the sample matrix means for transporting solvent gas from the solvent source to the sample matrix means for transporting sample gas from the sample matrix to the detection means and a heating element for heating the sample gas solvent gas and sample matrix. The device may include a thermocouple for providing a temperature reading. It also may include a plurality of interchangeable probe tips of different shapes.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A device for sampling low volatility hazardous materials for use with handheld detectors or other instruments is shown in . As will be apparent from the following description device can be used with a number of handheld detectors including but not limited to those sold under the trademarks AP4C Proengin of France MINIRAE RAE Systems Inc. and HGVI and LCD 3.2e both of Smiths Detection Inc. . The present invention also can be used with larger laboratory type analytical instruments including but not limited to a gas chromatograph GC mass spectrometer MS or a combination of such instruments. In addition device can be used as a sample collection device independent of any particular detector or analytical instrument. Accordingly the term detection means is used herein to refer to all of these options for handling and analyzing the sample gas.

Sonicator in this embodiment is a handheld ultrasonic device having an elongated ultrasonic probe tip for providing mechanical agitation to a sample matrix. Various sonicators for use as a component of the present invention are available commercially and can be selected from a number of sources and models. Preferably sonicator is compact lightweight and fit for use in an outdoor environment where it may be exposed to a wide range of weather conditions. Probe tip as well as the body of the probe is preferably made of material such as titanium or stainless steel so as to provide effective transmission of ultrasonic energy as well as corrosion resistance. The tip energy of the sonicator should be sufficient to provide effective mechanical agitation in a number of sample matrices when placed in contact or close proximity to the sample matrix. The term sample matrix as used herein refers to the material containing the analyte from which the sample is taken with the present invention. As such the sample matrix could be a solid surface such as a tile floor or a hard wall surface material a loose solid such as soil a flexible material such as carpet a gas such as the air within a room or a piece of equipment such as a computer or in the form of a liquid including but not limited to water.

Sonicators usable in accordance with the present invention include by way of example the device sold under the trademark SONOZAP by BioSpec Products Inc. which is an ultrasonic homogenizer with a titanium probe of inch diameter and six inch length with stated tip energy of 125 Watts cmand a 90 micron stroke. In addition the stroke speed of the SONOZAP device is adjustable by way of a control knob located on the far end of sonicator as viewed in said control knob visible in .

As illustrated in a first manifold provides a housing for sonicator and a means for flowing solvent gas from inlet port to the area near probe tip as will be explained in detail in reference to . Manifold including inlet port is preferably made of corrosion resistant non reactive material that is suitable for outdoor exposure and that will not adsorb solvent or sample gas. In the embodiment illustrated here manifold includes one or more expansion slots for a compression type fitting with sonicator .

A second manifold is attached to first manifold and provides a means for flowing sample gas from the sample matrix in proximity to probe tip to outlet port where the sample gas can flow directly to the detection means which as noted above may be a handheld detector laboratory type instrument or a storage vessel none of which are shown for subsequent analysis. A solvent source not shown is attached to inlet port using flexible tubing or the like. Similarly the detector instrument or storage vessel is connected to outlet port using flexible tubing or the like. Such flexible tubing if used should be a heatable type so as to allow for the application of heat to reduce condensation in the tubing. In alternative embodiments a handheld detector or solvent source or both could be fixed relative to the device of the present invention so that some or all of the tubing is rigid. These tubes whether flexible or rigid may be equipped with one or more thermocouples and may be electronically temperature controlled. Further details of gas flow are described below in reference to .

Manifolds and are preferably made of the same or compatible materials that are suitable for heating through convection from a heating element inert so as not to react with the solvent or sample gas and corrosion resistant. One such suitable material is stainless steel. The same or a compatible material can be used for inlet port outlet port and conduits the latter is shown in . These components for example may be fabricated from stainless steel tubing and fastened to manifolds through well known means such as welding threaded fittings or compression fittings.

Heating element as illustrated in the embodiment of is a flexible heating wrap that is placed around and secured in contact with outlet conduit shown in . When activated heating element heats conduit thereby heating the gas flowing through both the outlet conduit and inlet conduit . In this way the solvent gas sample matrix and sample or outlet gas are all heated above ambient conditions. A number of commercially available heaters are suitable for use as heating element . By way of example the heater sold under the trademark KAPTON by Watlow Inc. is a suitable commercially available product for heating source as it is easily applied to the contour of conduit shown in will not effect sampling results by off gassing and the surface is easily cleaned with most cleaning materials. Alternatively other types of heaters may be used in place of heating element . In addition an infrared heater could be mounted on device anywhere that it is convenient to do so. If used the infrared heater would be directed or pointed at the sample matrix so that the infrared energy is delivered to the sample matrix causing it to heat.

As illustrated in thermocouple may be included as a component of the present invention to provide a temperature reading to ensure that heating element is performing as intended. Additional thermocouples could be used for other heated components such as mounted on the heated tubing from outlet port to the detector. Thermocouple can be attached to manifold or conduit shown in using standard attachment means such as an adhesive made for high temperature applications. Thermocouple is not however required for the present invention to function as sampling performance is not effected or controlled by the thermocouple and the heat from heating element will be readily apparent to the user when device is in operation. Thermocouple can be used for quality control where an approved protocol calls for a temperature reading within a specified range for consistency of detection results. When a thermocouple is used an electrical lead not shown is attached to thermocouple on one end and to a readout meter not shown on the other end.

Turning to a perspective view of the probe tip area is provided. As shown here probe tip protrudes from inlet conduit which in turn protrudes from outlet conduit . Heating element a flexible heating wrap as illustrated in this embodiment is wrapped around and secured in contact with outlet conduit . The diameters of probe tip inlet conduit and outlet conduit may vary from one embodiment to another while still performing the functions as taught herein. Similarly the amount of protrusion between these components as well as the shape of probe tip may vary from one embodiment to another while still performing the functions as taught herein. The functions are as follows. The end of probe tip is exposed to the sample matrix so as to allow the probe to impart mechanical agitation of the sample matrix. A first flow space for solvent gas is provided between the probe body and the inner wall of inlet conduit . A second and separate flow space is provided between the outer wall of inlet conduit and the inner wall of outlet conduit . In addition to the other variations mentioned here the relative positions of the inlet and outlet conduits can be reversed although the position described above reflects the preferred embodiment. That is the first flow space described above could be used for the sample gas instead of the solvent gas with the second flow space used for the solvent gas. Similarly while a circular cross section as shown represents the preferred embodiment other cross sectional shapes are possible. Additionally while the location of the probe within inlet conduit and inlet conduit within outlet conduit represents the preferred embodiment it is possible to perform this function with alternative structure such as parallel conduits. The parallel conduits could terminate near probe tip or could be joined into a probe manifold.

Turing to an exploded view of the embodiment shown in is provided to illustrate additional features. The three main parts of device are sonicator and manifolds . Control knob of sonicator is visible in this view. Probe body also is visible in this view as is the sonicator housing formed by the interior of manifold . Manifold includes inlet port expansion slots and inlet conduit . Expansion slots provide flexibility of manifold for a compression fitting with sonicator . That is sonicator can be mounted within manifold by simply pressing it into the interior of manifold . Alternative embodiments may use other attachment means including threaded fittings however the preferred embodiment as shown here does not require any modification to sonicator . Inlet port is confluent with inlet conduit . That is gas or liquid can flow freely between inlet port and inlet conduit . When sonicator is placed within the housing formed by manifold it seals off the opening of the housing so that any gas within the manifold including that within inlet port and inlet conduit cannot escape out of the housing sonicator junction.

Second manifold includes outlet port and outlet conduit the latter not visible in as heating element is covering it. Outlet port and outlet conduit are confluent allowing gas or liquid to flow freely between them. Manifold is attached to manifold by means of screws bolts threads or the like. It could also be welded to or otherwise fixed permanently to manifold by an appropriate adhesive made for high temperature applications. As shown here to assemble device probe body is inserted into manifold and its inlet conduit which in turn is inserted into manifold and its outlet conduit the latter shown in .

Turning to a perspective view of three sonicator probe tip embodiments as taught for use with the present invention is provided. Probe tip represents the flat end configuration as illustrated in the previous figures. Alternative probe tip shapes are provided by way of illustration of shapes that could be used to apply mechanical agitation in small spaces such as corners formed by the intersection of floor and wall surfaces small spaces within equipment such as computers various cracks or cavities and the like. These alternative probe tips as well as other probe tip shapes can be attached to the probe body by way of threaded fastener compression fitting bayonet type connection or the like. While the preferred embodiment allows for the interchangeability of probe tips using one of these types of attachment means the probe tip could be fastened to the probe body using an adhesive made for high temperature applications. Alternatively a set of probes having different tips could be used.

Having described and illustrated the various structural elements of the present invention attention is now turned to the results in detection capability provided by sonic agitation when attempting to detect a low volatility analyte in a sample matrix. In the graph of the vapor pressure of VX and diethyl sebacate DES in mm Hg for temperatures from 50 to 300 degrees Celsius is provided to illustrate the similarity of VX and DES in their low volatility properties. DES like VX is not easily detected at typical room and outdoor temperatures because of this low volatility. Unlike VX it is not a highly toxic chemical and therefore was selected as a surrogate for VX in an experiment to illustrate the effects of sonic agitation of the sample matrix on detector performance.

The detector used in this illustration is an ion mobility spectrometry IMS type detector sold under the trademark LCD 3.2E. The type of detector is capable of detecting and identifying very low concentrations of chemicals based upon the differential migration or drift time of gas phase ions across an electric field. To perform the experiment the LCD 3.2E was placed at a fixed height over an ultrasonic bath. The LCD 3.2E was configured to allow data logging using software sold under the trademark TRIMSCAN which was installed on a laptop.

In addition to the ultrasonic mechanical agitation which as illustrated in can improve detection capability the present invention provides for a heated solvent gas to be delivered to the sample matrix thereby heating the sample matrix. The sampled gas is heated as well. Given the increase in vapor pressure with an increase in temperature this improves detection capability especially for the low volatility agents such as VX. The solvent or inlet gas used with the present invention may be air nitrogen fluorocarbons chlorofluorocarbon haloalkanes or any other suitable gas. While not required solvents with high vapor phase solubility with the low volatility hazards of interest would be beneficial.

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described it will be understood that additional embodiments and various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example various sonicators can be used as a component of the present invention. Various probes and probe tip shapes can be used. The inlet and outlet conduits need not have circular cross sections and could be parallel instead of concentric. Also the device of the present invention may be used with various detection means including handheld detectors laboratory type instruments or sample storage vessels for subsequent analysis. Accordingly these and other embodiments of the invention fall within the scope of the following claims.

