---

title: Systems and methods of providing server initiated connections on a virtual private network
abstract: The present invention is related to a method for establishing via an appliance a transport layer protocol connection initiated by a server on a first network to a client connected from a second network to the first network via a secure socket layer virtual private network (SSL VPN) connection. The method includes the step of receiving, by an appliance, a transport layer connection request from a server on a first network to connect to a client connected to the first network via a SSL VPN connection from a second network. The transport layer connection request identifies a client destination internet protocol address and a client destination port on the first network. The method includes establishing, by the appliance, a first transport layer connection to the server on the first network, determining, by the appliance, the client on the second network associated with the client destination internet protocol address on the first network, and transmitting, by the appliance, connection information identifying the client destination port to an agent on the client. The agent establishes a second transport layer connection to the client destination port using a local internet protocol address of the client on the second network and establishes a third transport layer connection to the appliance, which it associates with the second transport layer connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271661&OS=08271661&RS=08271661
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 08271661
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This present application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 465 950 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF PROVIDING SERVER INITIATED CONNECTIONS ON A VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK filed Aug. 21 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to data communication networks and in particular to systems and methods for providing server initiated connections to a client connected via a secure socket layer virtual private network connection.

In conventional systems virtual private networks VPN provide a client computer with secure access to a private network. Typically the client is assigned an internet protocol IP address on the private network after a VPN server authenticates the client. Once the client is authenticated and can access the VPN the client may securely access resources residing on the private network. In many cases VPNs provide a remote client on a public network access to server on a private network such as a corporate network. In some cases the VPN connected client also has resources that would be useful to access by a computing device on the private network such as a server. For example the VPN connected client may have files to be transferred to the private network. However a virtual private network system may not enable a computing device on the private network to initiate and establish a connection to a virtual private network connected client.

It would therefore be desirable to provide systems and methods for efficiently allowing a server in a private network to initiate a connection to a remote client connected to the private network via a virtual private network connection.

The present solution of the appliance and client agent described herein provides techniques for allowing efficient and transparent server initiated connections over a virtual private network connection to a client. As such servers and SSL VPN clients can transparently communicate via connections established by either the server or the client. The SSL VPN clients seamlessly appear as clients on the network accessed or managed by the appliance. This enables SSL VPN users to take advantage of applications such as collaboration tools that use server initiated connections. Additionally clients of SSL VPN users can provide access to applications and collaboration tools to the other clients and servers on the private network accessed via the virtual private network connection.

In one aspect the present invention is related to a method for establishing via an appliance a transport layer protocol connection initiated by a server on a first network to a client connected from a second network to the first network via a secure socket layer virtual private network SSL VPN connection. The method includes the step of receiving by an appliance a transport layer connection request from a server on a first network to connect to a client connected to the first network via a SSL VPN connection from a second network. The transport layer connection request identifies a client destination internet protocol address and a client destination port on the first network. The method includes establishing by the appliance a first transport layer connection to the server on the first network determining by the appliance the client on the second network associated with the client destination internet protocol address on the first network and transmitting by the appliance connection information identifying the client destination port to an agent on the client. The agent establishes a second transport layer connection to the client destination port using a local internet protocol address of the client on the second network and establishes a third transport layer connection to the appliance. The agent associates the third transport layer connection with the second transport layer connection. In one embodiment the agent comprises a web browser plug in.

In some embodiments the method includes linking by the appliance the first transport layer connection to the server with the third transport layer connection to the agent of the client. In another embodiment the method includes generating by the appliance a first connection record for the first transport layer connection to the server receiving by the appliance a second connection record from the agent for the third transport layer connection and associating by the appliance the first connection record with the second connection record. In one embodiment the method includes transmitting by the appliance to the agent via a control channel connection established between the appliance and the agent. In some embodiments the connection information transmitted from the appliance to the agent includes a protocol a server internet protocol address or a server source port.

In another embodiment the method includes the appliance forwarding data received from a server internet protocol address and server source port to an internet protocol address and port used by the agent for the third transport layer connection. In some of these embodiments the agent provides the data to the application via the second transport layer connection.

In one embodiment the method includes transmitting by the client via the appliance a request to the server to transmit the transport layer connection request. In another embodiment the appliance determines via content of an application layer protocol used for communications between the client and the server a server destination internet protocol address and server port or the client destination internet protocol address and client destination port. In some embodiments the appliance modifies the content of the application layer protocol transmitted to the server to identify an internet protocol address of the client on the first network.

In yet another embodiment the method includes determining by the appliance a second server initiated transport layer connection request to the client exceeds a predetermined threshold identifying a number of server initiated transport layer connections allowed to the client and not establishing by the appliance the second server initiated transport layer connection.

The details of various embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

Prior to discussing the specifics of embodiments of the systems and methods of an appliance and or client it may be helpful to discuss the network and computing environments in which such embodiments may be deployed. Referring now to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment comprises one or more clients also generally referred to as local machine s or client s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s or remote machine s via one or more networks generally referred to as network . In some embodiments a client communicates with a server via an appliance .

Although shows a network and a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . The networks and can be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network and or the network can be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. In one embodiment network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks and may both be private networks. In some embodiments clients may be located at a branch office of a corporate enterprise communicating via a WAN connection over the network to the servers located at a corporate data center.

The network and or be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network and or may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and or and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

As shown in the appliance which also may be referred to as an interface unit or gateway is shown between the networks and . In some embodiments the appliance may be located on network . For example a branch office of a corporate enterprise may deploy an appliance at the branch office. In other embodiments the appliance may be located on network . For example an appliance may be located at a corporate data center. In yet another embodiment a plurality of appliances may be deployed on network . In some embodiments a plurality of appliances may be deployed on network . In one embodiment a first appliance communicates with a second appliance . In other embodiments the appliance could be a part of any client or server on the same or different network as the client . One or more appliances may be located at any point in the network or network communications path between a client and a server .

In one embodiment the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm . In some of these embodiments the serves may be geographically dispersed. In some cases a farm may be administered as a single entity. In other embodiments the server farm comprises a plurality of server farms . In one embodiment the server farm executes one or more applications on behalf of one or more clients .

The servers within each farm can be heterogeneous. One or more of the servers can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix or Linux . The servers of each farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or medium area network MAN connection. For example a farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection.

Servers may be referred to as a file server application server web server proxy server or gateway server. In some embodiments a server may have the capacity to function as either an application server or as a master application server. In one embodiment a server may include an Active Directory. The clients may also be referred to as client nodes or endpoints. In some embodiments a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to applications on a server and as an application server providing access to hosted applications for other clients 

In some embodiments a client communicates with a server . In one embodiment the client communicates directly with one of the servers in a farm . In another embodiment the client executes a program neighborhood application to communicate with a server in a farm . In still another embodiment the server provides the functionality of a master node. In some embodiments the client communicates with the server in the farm through a network . Over the network the client can for example request execution of various applications hosted by the servers in the farm and receive output of the results of the application execution for display. In some embodiments only the master node provides the functionality required to identify and provide address information associated with a server hosting a requested application.

In one embodiment the server provides functionality of a web server. In another embodiment the server receives requests from the client forwards the requests to a second server and responds to the request by the client with a response to the request from the server . In still another embodiment the server acquires an enumeration of applications available to the client and address information associated with a server hosting an application identified by the enumeration of applications. In yet another embodiment the server presents the response to the request to the client using a web interface. In one embodiment the client communicates directly with the server to access the identified application. In another embodiment the client receives application output data such as display data generated by an execution of the identified application on the server .

Referring now to a network environment for delivering and or operating a computing environment on a client is depicted. In some embodiments a server includes an application delivery system for delivering a computing environment or an application and or data file to one or more clients . In brief overview a client is in communication with a server via network and appliance . For example the client may reside in a remote office of a company e.g. a branch office and the server may reside at a corporate data center. The client comprises a client agent and a computing environment . The computing environment may execute or operate an application that accesses processes or uses a data file. The computing environment application and or data file may be delivered via the appliance and or the server .

In some embodiments the appliance accelerates delivery of a computing environment or any portion thereof to a client . In one embodiment the appliance accelerates the delivery of the computing environment by the application delivery system . For example the embodiments described herein may be used to accelerate delivery of a streaming application and data file processable by the application from a central corporate data center to a remote user location such as a branch office of the company. In another embodiment the appliance accelerates transport layer traffic between a client and a server . The appliance may provide acceleration techniques for accelerating any transport layer payload from a server to a client such as 1 transport layer connection pooling 2 transport layer connection multiplexing 3 transport control protocol buffering 4 compression and 5 caching. In some embodiments the appliance provides load balancing of servers in responding to requests from clients . In other embodiments the appliance acts as a proxy or access server to provide access to the one or more servers . In another embodiment the appliance provides a secure virtual private network connection from a first network of the client to the second network of the server such as an SSL VPN connection. It yet other embodiments the appliance provides application firewall security control and management of the connection and communications between a client and a server .

In some embodiments the application delivery management system provides application delivery techniques to deliver a computing environment to a desktop of a user remote or otherwise based on a plurality of execution methods and based on any authentication and authorization policies applied via a policy engine . With these techniques a remote user may obtain a computing environment and access to server stored applications and data files from any network connected device . In one embodiment the application delivery system may reside or execute on a server . In another embodiment the application delivery system may reside or execute on a plurality of servers . In some embodiments the application delivery system may execute in a server farm . In one embodiment the server executing the application delivery system may also store or provide the application and data file. In another embodiment a first set of one or more servers may execute the application delivery system and a different server may store or provide the application and data file. In some embodiments each of the application delivery system the application and data file may reside or be located on different servers. In yet another embodiment any portion of the application delivery system may reside execute or be stored on or distributed to the appliance or a plurality of appliances.

The client may include a computing environment for executing an application that uses or processes a data file. The client via networks and appliance may request an application and data file from the server . In one embodiment the appliance may forward a request from the client to the server . For example the client may not have the application and data file stored or accessible locally. In response to the request the application delivery system and or server may deliver the application and data file to the client . For example in one embodiment the server may transmit the application as an application stream to operate in computing environment on client .

In some embodiments the application delivery system comprises any portion of the Citrix Access Suite by Citrix Systems Inc. such as the MetaFrame or Citrix Presentation Server and or any of the Microsoft Windows Terminal Services manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation. In one embodiment the application delivery system may deliver one or more applications to clients or users via a remote display protocol or otherwise via remote based or server based computing. In another embodiment the application delivery system may deliver one or more applications to clients or users via steaming of the application.

In one embodiment the application delivery system includes a policy engine for controlling and managing the access to selection of application execution methods and the delivery of applications. In some embodiments the policy engine determines the one or more applications a user or client may access. In another embodiment the policy engine determines how the application should be delivered to the user or client e.g. the method of execution. In some embodiments the application delivery system provides a plurality of delivery techniques from which to select a method of application execution such as a server based computing streaming or delivering the application locally to the client for local execution.

In one embodiment a client requests execution of an application program and the application delivery system comprising a server selects a method of executing the application program. In some embodiments the server receives credentials from the client . In another embodiment the server receives a request for an enumeration of available applications from the client . In one embodiment in response to the request or receipt of credentials the application delivery system enumerates a plurality of application programs available to the client . The application delivery system receives a request to execute an enumerated application. The application delivery system selects one of a predetermined number of methods for executing the enumerated application for example responsive to a policy of a policy engine. The application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application enabling the client to receive application output data generated by execution of the application program on a server . The application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application enabling the local machine to execute the application program locally after retrieving a plurality of application files comprising the application. In yet another embodiment the application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application to stream the application via the network to the client .

A client may execute operate or otherwise provide an application which can be any type and or form of software program or executable instructions such as any type and or form of web browser web based client client server application a thin client computing client an ActiveX control or a Java applet or any other type and or form of executable instructions capable of executing on client . In some embodiments the application may be a server based or a remote based application executed on behalf of the client on a server . In one embodiments the server may display output to the client using any thin client or remote display protocol such as the Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. or the Remote Desktop Protocol RDP manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The application can use any type of protocol and it can be for example an HTTP client an FTP client an Oscar client or a Telnet client. In other embodiments the application comprises any type of software related to VoIP communications such as a soft IP telephone. In further embodiments the application comprises any application related to real time data communications such as applications for streaming video and or audio.

In some embodiments the server or a server farm may be running one or more applications such as an application providing a thin client computing or remote display presentation application. In one embodiment the server or server farm executes as an application any portion of the Citrix Access Suite by Citrix Systems Inc. such as the MetaFrame or Citrix Presentation Server and or any of the Microsoft Windows Terminal Services manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation. In one embodiment the application is an ICA client developed by Citrix Systems Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla. In other embodiments the application includes a Remote Desktop RDP client developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Also the server may run an application which for example may be an application server providing email services such as Microsoft Exchange manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. a web or Internet server or a desktop sharing server or a collaboration server. In some embodiments any of the applications may comprise any type of hosted service or products such as GoToMeeting provided by Citrix Online Division Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. WebEx provided by WebEx Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. or Microsoft Office Live Meeting provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

The client server and appliance may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client server or appliance . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a visual display device a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse. Each computing device may also include additional optional elements such as one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as any client agent or portion thereof. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the client agent . Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device . Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD such as KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein. A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices such as computing devices and connected to the computing device for example via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire 800 bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

A computing device of the sort depicted in typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. For example in one embodiment the computer is a Treo 180 270 1060 600 or 650 smart phone manufactured by Palm Inc. In this embodiment the Treo smart phone is operated under the control of the PalmOS operating system and includes a stylus input device as well as a five way navigator device. Moreover the computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone any other computer or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.

Hardware layer provides the hardware elements upon which programs and services within kernel space and user space are executed. Hardware layer also provides the structures and elements which allow programs and services within kernel space and user space to communicate data both internally and externally with respect to appliance . As shown in the hardware layer includes a processing unit for executing software programs and services a memory for storing software and data network ports for transmitting and receiving data over a network and an encryption processor for performing functions related to Secure Sockets Layer processing of data transmitted and received over the network. In some embodiments the central processing unit may perform the functions of the encryption processor in a single processor. Additionally the hardware layer may comprise multiple processors for each of the processing unit and the encryption processor . The processor may include any of the processors described above in connection with . In some embodiments the central processing unit may perform the functions of the encryption processor in a single processor. Additionally the hardware layer may comprise multiple processors for each of the processing unit and the encryption processor . For example in one embodiment the appliance comprises a first processor and a second processor . In other embodiments the processor or comprises a multi core processor.

Although the hardware layer of appliance is generally illustrated with an encryption processor processor may be a processor for performing functions related to any encryption protocol such as the Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocol. In some embodiments the processor may be a general purpose processor GPP and in further embodiments may be have executable instructions for performing processing of any security related protocol.

Although the hardware layer of appliance is illustrated with certain elements in the hardware portions or components of appliance may comprise any type and form of elements hardware or software of a computing device such as the computing device illustrated and discussed herein in conjunction with . In some embodiments the appliance may comprise a server gateway router switch bridge or other type of computing or network device and have any hardware and or software elements associated therewith.

The operating system of appliance allocates manages or otherwise segregates the available system memory into kernel space and user space . In example software architecture the operating system may be any type and or form of Unix operating system although the invention is not so limited. As such the appliance can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any network operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or network devices or any other operating system capable of running on the appliance and performing the operations described herein.

The kernel space is reserved for running the kernel including any device drivers kernel extensions or other kernel related software. As known to those skilled in the art the kernel is the core of the operating system and provides access control and management of resources and hardware related elements of the application . In accordance with an embodiment of the appliance the kernel space also includes a number of network services or processes working in conjunction with a cache manager . sometimes also referred to as the integrated cache the benefits of which are described in detail further herein. Additionally the embodiment of the kernel will depend on the embodiment of the operating system installed configured or otherwise used by the device .

In one embodiment the device comprises one network stack such as a TCP IP based stack for communicating with the client and or the server . In one embodiment the network stack is used to communicate with a first network such as network and a second network . In some embodiments the device terminates a first transport layer connection such as a TCP connection of a client and establishes a second transport layer connection to a server for use by the client e.g. the second transport layer connection is terminated at the appliance and the server . The first and second transport layer connections may be established via a single network stack . In other embodiments the device may comprise multiple network stacks for example and and the first transport layer connection may be established or terminated at one network stack and the second transport layer connection on the second network stack . For example one network stack may be for receiving and transmitting network packet on a first network and another network stack for receiving and transmitting network packets on a second network. In one embodiment the network stack comprises a buffer for queuing one or more network packets for transmission by the appliance .

As shown in the kernel space includes the cache manager a high speed layer integrated packet engine an encryption engine a policy engine and multi protocol compression logic . Running these components or processes and in kernel space or kernel mode instead of the user space improves the performance of each of these components alone and in combination. Kernel operation means that these components or processes and run in the core address space of the operating system of the device . For example running the encryption engine in kernel mode improves encryption performance by moving encryption and decryption operations to the kernel thereby reducing the number of transitions between the memory space or a kernel thread in kernel mode and the memory space or a thread in user mode. For example data obtained in kernel mode may not need to be passed or copied to a process or thread running in user mode such as from a kernel level data structure to a user level data structure. In another aspect the number of context switches between kernel mode and user mode are also reduced. Additionally synchronization of and communications between any of the components or processes and can be performed more efficiently in the kernel space .

In some embodiments any portion of the components and may run or operate in the kernel space while other portions of these components and may run or operate in user space . In one embodiment the appliance uses a kernel level data structure providing access to any portion of one or more network packets for example a network packet comprising a request from a client or a response from a server . In some embodiments the kernel level data structure may be obtained by the packet engine via a transport layer driver interface or filter to the network stack . The kernel level data structure may comprise any interface and or data accessible via the kernel space related to the network stack network traffic or packets received or transmitted by the network stack . In other embodiments the kernel level data structure may be used by any of the components or processes and to perform the desired operation of the component or process. In one embodiment a component and is running in kernel mode when using the kernel level data structure while in another embodiment the component and is running in user mode when using the kernel level data structure. In some embodiments the kernel level data structure may be copied or passed to a second kernel level data structure or any desired user level data structure.

The cache manager may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware to provide cache access control and management of any type and form of content such as objects or dynamically generated objects served by the originating servers . The data objects or content processed and stored by the cache manager may comprise data in any format such as a markup language or communicated via any protocol. In some embodiments the cache manager duplicates original data stored elsewhere or data previously computed generated or transmitted in which the original data may require longer access time to fetch compute or otherwise obtain relative to reading a cache memory element. Once the data is stored in the cache memory element future use can be made by accessing the cached copy rather than refetching or recomputing the original data thereby reducing the access time. In some embodiments the cache memory element nat comprise a data object in memory of device . In other embodiments the cache memory element may comprise memory having a faster access time than memory . In another embodiment the cache memory element may comprise any type and form of storage element of the device such as a portion of a hard disk. In some embodiments the processing unit may provide cache memory for use by the cache manager . In yet further embodiments the cache manager may use any portion and combination of memory storage or the processing unit for caching data objects and other content.

Furthermore the cache manager includes any logic functions rules or operations to perform any embodiments of the techniques of the appliance described herein. For example the cache manager includes logic or functionality to invalidate objects based on the expiration of an invalidation time period or upon receipt of an invalidation command from a client or server . In some embodiments the cache manager may operate as a program service process or task executing in the kernel space and in other embodiments in the user space . In one embodiment a first portion of the cache manager executes in the user space while a second portion executes in the kernel space . In some embodiments the cache manager can comprise any type of general purpose processor GPP or any other type of integrated circuit such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Programmable Logic Device PLD or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC .

The policy engine may include for example an intelligent statistical engine or other programmable application s . In one embodiment the policy engine provides a configuration mechanism to allow a user to identifying specify define or configure a caching policy. Policy engine in some embodiments also has access to memory to support data structures such as lookup tables or hash tables to enable user selected caching policy decisions. In other embodiments the policy engine may comprise any logic rules functions or operations to determine and provide access control and management of objects data or content being cached by the appliance in addition to access control and management of security network traffic network access compression or any other function or operation performed by the appliance . Further examples of specific caching policies are further described herein.

The encryption engine comprises any logic business rules functions or operations for handling the processing of any security related protocol such as SSL or TLS or any function related thereto. For example the encryption engine encrypts and decrypts network packets or any portion thereof communicated via the appliance . The encryption engine may also setup or establish SSL or TLS connections on behalf of the client server or appliance . As such the encryption engine provides offloading and acceleration of SSL processing. In one embodiment the encryption engine uses a tunneling protocol to provide a virtual private network between a client and a server . In some embodiments the encryption engine is in communication with the Encryption processor . In other embodiments the encryption engine comprises executable instructions running on the Encryption processor .

The multi protocol compression engine comprises any logic business rules function or operations for compressing one or more protocols of a network packet such as any of the protocols used by the network stack of the device . In one embodiment multi protocol compression engine compresses bi directionally between clients and servers any TCP IP based protocol including Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI email File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Common Internet File System CIFS protocol file transfer Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol Remote Desktop Protocol RDP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Mobile IP protocol and Voice Over IP VoIP protocol. In other embodiments multi protocol compression engine provides compression of Hypertext Markup Language HTML based protocols and in some embodiments provides compression of any markup languages such as the Extensible Markup Language XML . In one embodiment the multi protocol compression engine provides compression of any high performance protocol such as any protocol designed for appliance to appliance communications. In another embodiment the multi protocol compression engine compresses any payload of or any communication using a modified transport control protocol such as Transaction TCP T TCP TCP with selection acknowledgements TCP SACK TCP with large windows TCP LW a congestion prediction protocol such as the TCP Vegas protocol and a TCP spoofing protocol.

As such the multi protocol compression engine accelerates performance for users accessing applications via desktop clients e.g. Microsoft Outlook and non Web thin clients such as any client launched by popular enterprise applications like Oracle SAP and Siebel and even mobile clients such as the Pocket PC. In some embodiments the multi protocol compression engine by executing in the kernel mode and integrating with packet processing engine accessing the network stack is able to compress any of the protocols carried by the TCP IP protocol such as any application layer protocol.

High speed layer integrated packet engine also generally referred to as a packet processing engine or packet engine is responsible for managing the kernel level processing of packets received and transmitted by appliance via network ports . The high speed layer integrated packet engine may comprise a buffer for queuing one or more network packets during processing such as for receipt of a network packet or transmission of a network packer. Additionally the high speed layer integrated packet engine is in communication with one or more network stacks to send and receive network packets via network ports . The high speed layer integrated packet engine works in conjunction with encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic . In particular encryption engine is configured to perform SSL processing of packets policy engine is configured to perform functions related to traffic management such as request level content switching and request level cache redirection and multi protocol compression logic is configured to perform functions related to compression and decompression of data.

The high speed layer integrated packet engine includes a packet processing timer . In one embodiment the packet processing timer provides one or more time intervals to trigger the processing of incoming i.e. received or outgoing i.e. transmitted network packets. In some embodiments the high speed layer integrated packet engine processes network packets responsive to the timer . The packet processing timer provides any type and form of signal to the packet engine to notify trigger or communicate a time related event interval or occurrence. In many embodiments the packet processing timer operates in the order of milliseconds such as for example 100 ms 50 ms or 25 ms. For example in some embodiments the packet processing timer provides time intervals or otherwise causes a network packet to be processed by the high speed layer integrated packet engine at a 10 ms time interval while in other embodiments at a 5 ms time interval and still yet in further embodiments as short as a 3 2 or 1 ms time interval. The high speed layer integrated packet engine may be interfaced integrated or in communication with the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression engine during operation. As such any of the logic functions or operations of the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic may be performed responsive to the packet processing timer and or the packet engine . Therefore any of the logic functions or operations of the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic may be performed at the granularity of time intervals provided via the packet processing timer for example at a time interval of less than or equal to 10 ms. For example in one embodiment the cache manager may perform invalidation of any cached objects responsive to the high speed layer integrated packet engine and or the packet processing timer . In another embodiment the expiry or invalidation time of a cached object can be set to the same order of granularity as the time interval of the packet processing timer such as at every 10 ms.

In contrast to kernel space user space is the memory area or portion of the operating system used by user mode applications or programs otherwise running in user mode. A user mode application may not access kernel space directly and uses service calls in order to access kernel services. As shown in user space of appliance includes a graphical user interface GUI a command line interface CLI shell services health monitoring program and daemon services . GUI and CLI provide a means by which a system administrator or other user can interact with and control the operation of appliance such as via the operating system of the appliance and either is user space or kernel space . The GUI may be any type and form of graphical user interface and may be presented via text graphical or otherwise by any type of program or application such as a browser. The CLI may be any type and form of command line or text based interface such as a command line provided by the operating system. For example the CLI may comprise a shell which is a tool to enable users to interact with the operating system. In some embodiments the CLI may be provided via a bash csh tcsh or ksh type shell. The shell services comprises the programs services tasks processes or executable instructions to support interaction with the appliance or operating system by a user via the GUI and or CLI .

Health monitoring program is used to monitor check report and ensure that network systems are functioning properly and that users are receiving requested content over a network. Health monitoring program comprises one or more programs services tasks processes or executable instructions to provide logic rules functions or operations for monitoring any activity of the appliance . In some embodiments the health monitoring program intercepts and inspects any network traffic passed via the appliance . In other embodiments the health monitoring program interfaces by any suitable means and or mechanisms with one or more of the following the encryption engine cache manager policy engine multi protocol compression logic packet engine daemon services and shell services . As such the health monitoring program may call any application programming interface API to determine a state status or health of any portion of the appliance . For example the health monitoring program may ping or send a status inquiry on a periodic basis to check if a program process service or task is active and currently running In another example the health monitoring program may check any status error or history logs provided by any program process service or task to determine any condition status or error with any portion of the appliance .

Daemon services are programs that run continuously or in the background and handle periodic service requests received by appliance . In some embodiments a daemon service may forward the requests to other programs or processes such as another daemon service as appropriate. As known to those skilled in the art a daemon service may run unattended to perform continuous or periodic system wide functions such as network control or to perform any desired task. In some embodiments one or more daemon services run in the user space while in other embodiments one or more daemon services run in the kernel space.

Referring now to another embodiment of the appliance is depicted. In brief overview the appliance provides one or more of the following services functionality or operations SSL VPN connectivity switching load balancing Domain Name Service resolution acceleration and an application firewall for communications between one or more clients and one or more servers . In one embodiment the appliance comprises any of the network devices manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. referred to as Citrix NetScaler devices. Each of the servers may provide one or more network related services referred to as services . For example a server may provide an http service . The appliance comprises one or more virtual servers or virtual internet protocol servers referred to as a vServer VIP server or just VIP also referred herein as vServer . The vServer receives intercepts or otherwise processes communications between a client and a server in accordance with the configuration and operations of the appliance .

The vServer may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. The vServer may comprise any type and form of program service task process or executable instructions operating in user mode kernel mode or any combination thereof in the appliance . The vServer includes any logic functions rules or operations to perform any embodiments of the techniques described herein such as SSL VPN switching load balancing Domain Name Service resolution acceleration and an application firewall . In some embodiments the vServer establishes a connection to a service of a server . The service may comprise any program application process task or set of executable instructions capable of connecting to and communicating to the appliance client or vServer . For example the service may comprise a web server http server ftp email or database server. In some embodiments the service is a daemon process or network driver for listening receiving and or sending communications for an application such as email database or an enterprise application. In some embodiments the service may communicate on a specific IP address or IP address and port.

In some embodiments the vServer applies one or more policies of the policy engine to network communications between the client and server . In one embodiment the policies are associated with a VServer . In another embodiment the policies are based on a user or a group of users. In yet another embodiment a policy is global and applies to one or more vServers and any user or group of users communicating via the appliance . In some embodiments the policies of the policy engine have conditions upon which the policy is applied based on any content of the communication such as internet protocol address port protocol type header or fields in a packet or the context of the communication such as user group of the user vServer transport layer connection and or identification or attributes of the client or server .

In other embodiments the appliance communicates or interfaces with the policy engine to determine authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client to access the computing environment application and or data file from a server . In another embodiment the appliance communicates or interfaces with the policy engine to determine authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client to have the application delivery system deliver one or more of the computing environment application and or data file. In yet another embodiment the appliance establishes a VPN or SSL VPN connection based on the policy engine s authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client In one embodiment the appliance controls the flow of network traffic and communication sessions based on policies of the policy engine . For example the appliance may control the access to a computing environment application or data file based on the policy engine .

In some embodiments the vServer establishes a transport layer connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with a client via the client agent . In one embodiment the vServer listens for and receives communications from the client . In other embodiments the vServer establishes a transport layer connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with a client server . In one embodiment the vServer establishes the transport layer connection to an internet protocol address and port of a server running on the server . In another embodiment the vServer associates a first transport layer connection to a client with a second transport layer connection to the server . In some embodiments a vServer establishes a pool of transport layer connections to a server and multiplexes client requests via the pooled transport layer connections.

In some embodiments the appliance provides a SSL VPN connection between a client and a server . For example a client on a first network requests to establish a connection to a server on a second network . In some embodiments the second network is not routable from the first network . In other embodiments the client is on a public network and the server is on a private network such as a corporate network. In one embodiment the client agent intercepts communications of the client on the first network encrypts the communications and transmits the communications via a first transport layer connection to the appliance . The appliance associates the first transport layer connection on the first network to a second transport layer connection to the server on the second network . The appliance receives the intercepted communication from the client agent decrypts the communications and transmits the communication to the server on the second network via the second transport layer connection. The second transport layer connection may be a pooled transport layer connection. As such the appliance provides an end to end secure transport layer connection for the client between the two networks .

In one embodiment the appliance hosts an intranet internet protocol or intranetIP address of the client on the virtual private network . The client has a local network identifier such as an internet protocol IP address and or host name on the first network . When connected to the second network via the appliance the appliance establishes assigns or otherwise provides an IntranetIP which is a network identifier such as IP address and or host name for the client on the second network . The appliance listens for and receives on the second or private network for any communications directed towards the client using the client s established IntranetIP . In one embodiment the appliance acts as or on behalf of the client on the second private network . For example in another embodiment a vServer listens for and responds to communications to the IntranetIP of the client . In some embodiments if a computing device on the second network transmits a request the appliance processes the request as if it were the client . For example the appliance may respond to a ping to the client s IntranetIP . In another example the appliance may establish a connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with computing device on the second network requesting a connection with the client s IntranetIP .

In some embodiments the appliance provides one or more of the following acceleration techniques to communications between the client and server 1 compression 2 decompression 3 Transmission Control Protocol pooling 4 Transmission Control Protocol multiplexing 5 Transmission Control Protocol buffering and 6 caching. In one embodiment the appliance relieves servers of much of the processing load caused by repeatedly opening and closing transport layers connections to clients by opening one or more transport layer connections with each server and maintaining these connections to allow repeated data accesses by clients via the Internet. This technique is referred to herein as connection pooling .

In some embodiments in order to seamlessly splice communications from a client to a server via a pooled transport layer connection the appliance translates or multiplexes communications by modifying sequence number and acknowledgment numbers at the transport layer protocol level. This is referred to as connection multiplexing . In some embodiments no application layer protocol interaction is required. For example in the case of an in bound packet that is a packet received from a client the source network address of the packet is changed to that of an output port of appliance and the destination network address is changed to that of the intended server. In the case of an outbound packet that is one received from a server the source network address is changed from that of the server to that of an output port of appliance and the destination address is changed from that of appliance to that of the requesting client . The sequence numbers and acknowledgment numbers of the packet are also translated to sequence numbers and acknowledgement expected by the client on the appliance s transport layer connection to the client . In some embodiments the packet checksum of the transport layer protocol is recalculated to account for these translations.

In another embodiment the appliance provides switching or load balancing functionality for communications between the client and server . In some embodiments the appliance distributes traffic and directs client requests to a server based on layer or application layer request data. In one embodiment although the network layer or layer of the network packet identifies a destination server the appliance determines the server to distribute the network packet by application information and data carried as payload of the transport layer packet. In one embodiment the health monitoring programs of the appliance monitor the health of servers to determine the server for which to distribute a client s request. In some embodiments if the appliance detects a server is not available or has a load over a predetermined threshold the appliance can direct or distribute client requests to another server .

In some embodiments the appliance acts as a Domain Name Service DNS resolver or otherwise provides resolution of a DNS request from clients . In some embodiments the appliance intercepts a DNS request transmitted by the client . In one embodiment the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of or hosted by the appliance . In this embodiment the client transmits network communication for the domain name to the appliance . In another embodiment the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of or hosted by a second appliance . In some embodiments the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of a server determined by the appliance .

In yet another embodiment the appliance provides application firewall functionality for communications between the client and server . In one embodiment the policy engine provides rules for detecting and blocking illegitimate requests. In some embodiments the application firewall protects against denial of service DoS attacks. In other embodiments the appliance inspects the content of intercepted requests to identify and block application based attacks. In some embodiments the rules policy engine comprises one or more application firewall or security control policies for providing protections against various classes and types of web or Internet based vulnerabilities such as one or more of the following 1 buffer overflow 2 CGI BIN parameter manipulation 3 form hidden field manipulation 4 forceful browsing 5 cookie or session poisoning 6 broken access control list ACLs or weak passwords 7 cross site scripting XSS 8 command injection 9 SQL injection 10 error triggering sensitive information leak 11 insecure use of cryptography 12 server misconfiguration 13 back doors and debug options 14 website defacement 15 platform or operating systems vulnerabilities and 16 zero day exploits. In an embodiment the application firewall provides HTML form field protection in the form of inspecting or analyzing the network communication for one or more of the following 1 required fields are returned 2 no added field allowed 3 read only and hidden field enforcement 4 drop down list and radio button field conformance and 5 form field max length enforcement. In some embodiments the application firewall ensures cookies are not modified. In other embodiments the application firewall protects against forceful browsing by enforcing legal URLs.

In still yet other embodiments the application firewall protects any confidential information contained in the network communication. The application firewall may inspect or analyze any network communication in accordance with the rules or polices of the engine to identify any confidential information in any field of the network packet. In some embodiments the application firewall identifies in the network communication one or more occurrences of a credit card number password social security number name patient code contact information and age. The encoded portion of the network communication may comprise these occurrences or the confidential information. Based on these occurrences in one embodiment the application firewall may take a policy action on the network communication such as prevent transmission of the network communication. In another embodiment the application firewall may rewrite remove or otherwise mask such identified occurrence or confidential information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the client agent is depicted. The client includes a client agent for establishing and exchanging communications with the appliance and or server via a network . In brief overview the client operates on computing device having an operating system with a kernel mode and a user mode and a network stack with one or more layers . The client may have installed and or execute one or more applications. In some embodiments one or more applications may communicate via the network stack to a network . One of the applications such as a web browser may also include a first program . For example the first program may be used in some embodiments to install and or execute the client agent or any portion thereof. The client agent includes an interception mechanism or interceptor for intercepting network communications from the network stack from the one or more applications.

The network stack of the client may comprise any type and form of software or hardware or any combinations thereof for providing connectivity to and communications with a network. In one embodiment the network stack comprises a software implementation for a network protocol suite. The network stack may comprise one or more network layers such as any networks layers of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI communications model as those skilled in the art recognize and appreciate. As such the network stack may comprise any type and form of protocols for any of the following layers of the OSI model 1 physical link layer 2 data link layer 3 network layer 4 transport layer 5 session layer 6 presentation layer and 7 application layer. In one embodiment the network stack may comprise a transport control protocol TCP over the network layer protocol of the internet protocol IP generally referred to as TCP IP. In some embodiments the TCP IP protocol may be carried over the Ethernet protocol which may comprise any of the family of IEEE wide area network WAN or local area network LAN protocols such as those protocols covered by the IEEE 802.3. In some embodiments the network stack comprises any type and form of a wireless protocol such as IEEE 802.11 and or mobile internet protocol.

In view of a TCP IP based network any TCP IP based protocol may be used including Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI email File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Common Internet File System CIFS protocol file transfer Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol Remote Desktop Protocol RDP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Mobile IP protocol and Voice Over IP VoIP protocol. In another embodiment the network stack comprises any type and form of transport control protocol such as a modified transport control protocol for example a Transaction TCP T TCP TCP with selection acknowledgements TCP SACK TCP with large windows TCP LW a congestion prediction protocol such as the TCP Vegas protocol and a TCP spoofing protocol. In other embodiments any type and form of user datagram protocol UDP such as UDP over IP may be used by the network stack such as for voice communications or real time data communications.

Furthermore the network stack may include one or more network drivers supporting the one or more layers such as a TCP driver or a network layer driver. The network drivers may be included as part of the operating system of the computing device or as part of any network interface cards or other network access components of the computing device . In some embodiments any of the network drivers of the network stack may be customized modified or adapted to provide a custom or modified portion of the network stack in support of any of the techniques described herein. In other embodiments the acceleration program is designed and constructed to operate with or work in conjunction with the network stack installed or otherwise provided by the operating system of the client .

The network stack comprises any type and form of interfaces for receiving obtaining providing or otherwise accessing any information and data related to network communications of the client . In one embodiment an interface to the network stack comprises an application programming interface API . The interface may also comprise any function call hooking or filtering mechanism event or call back mechanism or any type of interfacing technique. The network stack via the interface may receive or provide any type and form of data structure such as an object related to functionality or operation of the network stack . For example the data structure may comprise information and data related to a network packet or one or more network packets. In some embodiments the data structure comprises a portion of the network packet processed at a protocol layer of the network stack such as a network packet of the transport layer. In some embodiments the data structure comprises a kernel level data structure while in other embodiments the data structure comprises a user mode data structure. A kernel level data structure may comprise a data structure obtained or related to a portion of the network stack operating in kernel mode or a network driver or other software running in kernel mode or any data structure obtained or received by a service process task thread or other executable instructions running or operating in kernel mode of the operating system.

Additionally some portions of the network stack may execute or operate in kernel mode for example the data link or network layer while other portions execute or operate in user mode such as an application layer of the network stack . For example a first portion of the network stack may provide user mode access to the network stack to an application while a second portion of the network stack provides access to a network. In some embodiments a first portion of the network stack may comprise one or more upper layers of the network stack such as any of layers . In other embodiments a second portion of the network stack comprises one or more lower layers such as any of layers . Each of the first portion and second portion of the network stack may comprise any portion of the network stack at any one or more network layers in user mode kernel mode or combinations thereof or at any portion of a network layer or interface point to a network layer or any portion of or interface point to the user mode and kernel mode .

The interceptor may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In one embodiment the interceptor intercept a network communication at any point in the network stack and redirects or transmits the network communication to a destination desired managed or controlled by the interceptor or client agent . For example the interceptor may intercept a network communication of a network stack of a first network and transmit the network communication to the appliance for transmission on a second network . In some embodiments the interceptor comprises any type interceptor comprises a driver such as a network driver constructed and designed to interface and work with the network stack . In some embodiments the client agent and or interceptor operates at one or more layers of the network stack such as at the transport layer. In one embodiment the interceptor comprises a filter driver hooking mechanism or any form and type of suitable network driver interface that interfaces to the transport layer of the network stack such as via the transport driver interface TDI . In some embodiments the interceptor interfaces to a first protocol layer such as the transport layer and another protocol layer such as any layer above the transport protocol layer for example an application protocol layer. In one embodiment the interceptor may comprise a driver complying with the Network Driver Interface Specification NDIS or a NDIS driver. In another embodiment the interceptor may comprise a mini filter or a mini port driver. In one embodiment the interceptor or portion thereof operates in kernel mode . In another embodiment the interceptor or portion thereof operates in user mode . In some embodiments a portion of the interceptor operates in kernel mode while another portion of the interceptor operates in user mode . In other embodiments the client agent operates in user mode but interfaces via the interceptor to a kernel mode driver process service task or portion of the operating system such as to obtain a kernel level data structure . In further embodiments the interceptor is a user mode application or program such as application.

In one embodiment the interceptor intercepts any transport layer connection requests. In these embodiments the interceptor execute transport layer application programming interface API calls to set the destination information such as destination IP address and or port to a desired location for the location. In this manner the interceptor intercepts and redirects the transport layer connection to a IP address and port controlled or managed by the interceptor or client agent . In one embodiment the interceptor sets the destination information for the connection to a local IP address and port of the client on which the client agent is listening. For example the client agent may comprise a proxy service listening on a local IP address and port for redirected transport layer communications. In some embodiments the client agent then communicates the redirected transport layer communication to the appliance .

In some embodiments the interceptor intercepts a Domain Name Service DNS request. In one embodiment the client agent and or interceptor resolves the DNS request. In another embodiment the interceptor transmits the intercepted DNS request to the appliance for DNS resolution. In one embodiment the appliance resolves the DNS request and communicates the DNS response to the client agent . In some embodiments the appliance resolves the DNS request via another appliance or a DNS server .

In yet another embodiment the client agent may comprise two agents and . In one embodiment a first agent may comprise an interceptor operating at the network layer of the network stack . In some embodiments the first agent intercepts network layer requests such as Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP requests e.g. ping and traceroute . In other embodiments the second agent may operate at the transport layer and intercept transport layer communications. In some embodiments the first agent intercepts communications at one layer of the network stack and interfaces with or communicates the intercepted communication to the second agent .

The client agent and or interceptor may operate at or interface with a protocol layer in a manner transparent to any other protocol layer of the network stack . For example in one embodiment the interceptor operates or interfaces with the transport layer of the network stack transparently to any protocol layer below the transport layer such as the network layer and any protocol layer above the transport layer such as the session presentation or application layer protocols. This allows the other protocol layers of the network stack to operate as desired and without modification for using the interceptor . As such the client agent and or interceptor can interface with the transport layer to secure optimize accelerate route or load balance any communications provided via any protocol carried by the transport layer such as any application layer protocol over TCP IP.

Furthermore the client agent and or interceptor may operate at or interface with the network stack in a manner transparent to any application a user of the client and any other computing device such as a server in communications with the client . The client agent and or interceptor may be installed and or executed on the client in a manner without modification of an application. In some embodiments the user of the client or a computing device in communications with the client are not aware of the existence execution or operation of the client agent and or interceptor . As such in some embodiments the client agent and or interceptor is installed executed and or operated transparently to an application user of the client another computing device such as a server or any of the protocol layers above and or below the protocol layer interfaced to by the interceptor .

The client agent includes an acceleration program a streaming client and or a collection agent . In one embodiment the client agent comprises an Independent Computing Architecture ICA client or any portion thereof developed by Citrix Systems Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla. and is also referred to as an ICA client. In some embodiments the client comprises an application streaming client for streaming an application from a server to a client . In some embodiments the client agent comprises an acceleration program for accelerating communications between client and server . In another embodiment the client agent includes a collection agent for performing end point detection scanning and collecting end point information for the appliance and or server .

In some embodiments the acceleration program comprises a client side acceleration program for performing one or more acceleration techniques to accelerate enhance or otherwise improve a client s communications with and or access to a server such as accessing an application provided by a server . The logic functions and or operations of the executable instructions of the acceleration program may perform one or more of the following acceleration techniques 1 multi protocol compression 2 transport control protocol pooling 3 transport control protocol multiplexing 4 transport control protocol buffering and 5 caching via a cache manager. Additionally the acceleration program may perform encryption and or decryption of any communications received and or transmitted by the client . In some embodiments the acceleration program performs one or more of the acceleration techniques in an integrated manner or fashion. Additionally the acceleration program can perform compression on any of the protocols or multiple protocols carried as a payload of a network packet of the transport layer protocol.

The streaming client comprises an application program process service task or executable instructions for receiving and executing a streamed application from a server . A server may stream one or more application data files to the streaming client for playing executing or otherwise causing to be executed the application on the client . In some embodiments the server transmits a set of compressed or packaged application data files to the streaming client . In some embodiments the plurality of application files are compressed and stored on a file server within an archive file such as a CAB ZIP SIT TAR JAR or other archive. In one embodiment the server decompresses unpackages or unarchives the application files and transmits the files to the client . In another embodiment the client decompresses unpackages or unarchives the application files. The streaming client dynamically installs the application or portion thereof and executes the application. In one embodiment the streaming client may be an executable program. In some embodiments the streaming client may be able to launch another executable program.

The collection agent comprises an application program process service task or executable instructions for identifying obtaining and or collecting information about the client . In some embodiments the appliance transmits the collection agent to the client or client agent . The collection agent may be configured according to one or more policies of the policy engine of the appliance. In other embodiments the collection agent transmits collected information on the client to the appliance . In one embodiment the policy engine of the appliance uses the collected information to determine and provide access authentication and authorization control of the client s connection to a network .

In one embodiment the collection agent comprises an end point detection and scanning mechanism which identifies and determines one or more attributes or characteristics of the client. For example the collection agent may identify and determine any one or more of the following client side attributes 1 the operating system an or a version of an operating system 2 a service pack of the operating system 3 a running service 4 a running process and 5 a file. The collection agent may also identify and determine the presence or versions of any one or more of the following on the client 1 antivirus software 2 personal firewall software 3 anti spam software and 4 internet security software. The policy engine may have one or more policies based on any one or more of the attributes or characteristics of the client or client side attributes.

In some embodiments and still referring to a first program may be used to install and or execute the client agent or portion thereof such as the interceptor automatically silently transparently or otherwise. In one embodiment the first program comprises a plugin component such an ActiveX control or Java control or script that is loaded into and executed by an application. For example the first program comprises an ActiveX control loaded and run by a web browser application such as in the memory space or context of the application. In another embodiment the first program comprises a set of executable instructions loaded into and run by the application such as a browser. In one embodiment the first program comprises a designed and constructed program to install the client agent . In some embodiments the first program obtains downloads or receives the client agent via the network from another computing device. In another embodiment the first program is an installer program or a plug and play manager for installing programs such as network drivers on the operating system of the client .

Referring now to an embodiment of an appliance and client agent is depicted for providing a server initiated transport layer connection between a server and a client connected by a virtual private network connection via the appliance . In brief overview a client on a first network may establish a virtual private network connection such as a SSL VPN connection via the appliance to a second network . The appliance assigns an Intranet Internet Protocol IIP address to the client or the user of the client . A server initiates a transport layer connection with the client using the IIP address . The appliance intercepts the transport layer connection request and establishes a first transport layer connection with the server . The appliance transmits information about the connection request to the client agent of the client via control connection or communication channel. With this information the client agent establishes a second and local transport layer connection with the application on the client . The client agent also establishes a third transport layer connection such as a SSL VPN connection to the appliance and associates the second and third transport layer connections. The appliance associates the third transport layer connection with the first transport layer connection and forwards any data from the server to the client agent to forward to the application. The client agent receives the data via the third transport layer connection and forwards the data o the application via the second transport layer connection. The various details of the embodiment depicted in will be described later in conjunction with below.

A server may initiate a transport layer connection to a client using any kind of transport layer protocol. In one embodiment the server may initiate a TCP connection with the client . In another embodiment the server may initiate a UDP connection with the client . In some embodiments the server may reside on the private or intranet network accessed via the appliance . In other embodiments the server may reside on an extranet or network external to the appliance and or client .

A server may initiate a transport layer connection to a client in different ways. The server may initiate a 1 pure server initiated connection 2 a client triggered initiated connection or 3 a server initiated connection derived from information embedded in the payload referred to as a hybrid connection. In one embodiment a pure server initiated connection is when a server has prior knowledge about the IIP address and port of the SSL VPN client and makes a connection to the client . This connection request is intercepted by the appliance . For example a server may access telnet or web services running on a SSL VPN logged in client . In some embodiments the SSL VPN client triggers the server to initiate the transport layer connection. For example the SSL VPN client makes an initial connection to the server and the server connects to the client on a port that is well known or is derived from the first port used by the client to connect to the server .

In other embodiments the server initiated connection is a hybrid. For example the client makes an initial connection to the server and the client and server exchange ports and IP addresses with an application specific protocol. As such in one embodiment the IP address and port information is embedded or included in the payload of the transport layer packets. A NetMeeting data connection is an example of a hybrid server initiated connection as well as the port command used in an active file transfer protocol FTP session. In these embodiments the appliance modifies the payload exchanged between the client and server to use the IIP address of the client or user of the client .

In some embodiments the client agent and appliance communicate via a control channel or control connection. The control channel may comprise a UDP or TCP transport layer connection. In one embodiment the client agent and appliance establish a persistent connection for exchanging control messages. In some embodiments this control connection is created by the client agent sending an HTTP GET request or a cs HTTP GET request to the appliance . In one embodiment the appliance handles SSL VPN connection requests via an HTTP handler. In another embodiment the client agent and appliance can use this control connection to send periodic heart beat or health check messages such as when there is not network traffic.

In some embodiments the appliance and client agent may exchange control messages via a control channel protocol. In one embodiment the appliance transmits control messages to the client agent via a multiplex UDP channel using a UDP multiplexed header . In one embodiment the appliance transmits a udp multiplexed header to inform the client agent of a server initiated TCP or UDP request. By way of example only and in no way limiting the control channel protocol the following udp multiplex header is used 

In one embodiment the client agent opens a connection to the application on the tuple . The client agent opens a new connection to the appliance and links it to the application connection. In case of TCP the 3 tuple sent by the appliance is sent back as part of the new connection from the client agent . This allows the appliance to find out which server initiated connection this belongs to. In response to a TCP server initiated connection request from the appliance the client agent opens a connection to the appliance in one embodiment by issuing a controlack HTTP POST request. By way of example the client agent 12 issues the following request 

If the client agent cannot open a connection to the application on localhost the client agent may indicate an error by re sending the udp multiplexed header with len set to 0. In some embodiments this header includes the 3 tuple the client agent received previously so that the appliance can clean up the server side connection. In case of TCP the appliance may send a reset. In case of UDP the appliance may send a port unreachable Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP error.

In some embodiments the appliance such as in the kernel manages or handle UDP data via a client and server network address translation nat protocol control block pcb pair or natpcb pair. In one embodiment a process control blocks or pcbs may be used to store track and maintain information regarding a socket or socket connection. For example a PCB may store information and track a state of a socket connection. In some embodiments a PCB comprises a record of information on a state or attributes of a connection such as a connection record. A natpcb may store information and track a state or the network address translation of a socket connection traversing between a first network and a second network. The appliance creates tracks updates and maintains in a table database memory or other storage client and server side PCBs and natpcbs in providing the operations described herein.

Although the state information and connection management of various transport layer connections are generally described herein using a process control block pcb any type and form of connection record may be used to store hold maintain and track any information related to a connection or socket thereof. A connection record may comprise any information stored in a data structure or object in memory. A connection record may comprise any storage element such as a table database or entries in a table or database. The appliance may manage organize and track one or more connection records in memory data structure or object or in storage table or database .

For server initiated connections in one embodiment the appliance creates the server natpcb with the connection parameters transmitted from the server . The appliance creates the client natpcb with the tuple and this may also be used in the multiplex header as shown by way of example via the table below. The mip and mport are for Mapped IP embodiments where the appliance maps the client IP address and port to an appliance provided IP address and port.

In one embodiment the appliance establishes a listener process upon establishment of the connection and or upon login of the user. In some embodiments the listener process comprises an application program service thread task or other set of executable instructions to listen for transport layer connection messages. In some embodiments the listener is a TCP or UDP socket based listener. In one embodiment the appliance hosts the IIP address of the user or the client . In these embodiments the appliance provides the listener process to act as spoof or otherwise virtualize the client as available on the network . As such in some embodiments the appliance via the listener listens for any network communications transmitted to the IIP address of the client . In one embodiment the listener registers itself and or the IIP address with registration service or database . In one embodiment the registration service comprises a pcb information about a pcb or association of pcbs. In other embodiments the registration service includes information about the server such as any IP and port information of the server s connection with the application. In some embodiments the registration service associates the server with the client s IIP address it has initiated a connection to.

Referring now to details of steps of an embodiment of a method for practicing server initiation connections with the appliance and client agent is depicted. will be described and discussed in conjunction with as the steps of method are referenced in the diagram of . In brief overview at step the server initiated a transport layer connection to the client . At steps and the appliance and server perform a transport layer connect handshake to establish a first transport layer connection. At step the appliance generates a protocol control block pcb representing the appliance to server connection e.g. the first transport layer connection. At step the appliance transmits a control packet to the client agent via the control connection. The control packet may use the mux header to identify the connection tuple. At step the client agent initiates a local connection e.g. a second transport layer connection with the application on the client using the tuple from the control packet. At step the client agent via interceptor intercepts packet sent to the server IP address and port. At step the client agent establishes a new transport layer connection e.g. a third connection or SSL VPN connection with the appliance . At step the appliance generates a client side HTTP protocol control block . At step the client transmits a control ack message via the established third connection. At step the appliance retrieves the client side TCP SYNC protocol control block and associates it the client side HTTP protocol control block . At step the appliance forwards data received from the server e.g. from server IP and server source port via the first transport layer connection to the client agent via the third transport layer connection and the client agent provides the data to the application via the second transport layer connection.

In further details at step the server initiates a transport layer connection to the client via any one of a number of different ways and may use any type and form of transport layer protocol. In one embodiment the server initiates a TCP connection to the client . In another embodiment the server initiates a UDP connection to the client . In one embodiment the server makes a pure server initiated connection. In another embodiment the server makes a client triggered server initiated connection. In some embodiments the server makes a hybrid server initiated connection by which the client and server exchange connection information via an application layer protocol and payload. In one embodiment the server resides on the intranet of the appliance . In other embodiments the server may be external to the appliance client and networks or .

In some embodiments the appliance determines the number of server initiated connection requests to the client exceeds a predetermined threshold or quantity. For example the appliance may be configured to only establish a maximum number of server initiated connections to any one client. This predetermined maximum may be configurable by a user such as an administrator. In another example the appliance may be configured to only establish a maximum number of server initiated connections to any of the VPN connected clients. Upon determining the server initiated connection request exceeds the predetermined threshold the appliance does not establish the server requested connection. In one embodiment the appliance drops the request. In another embodiment the appliance denies the request. In yet another embodiment the appliance responds with an error to the server . In some embodiments the appliance responds to the server with an indication the number of server initiated connections allowed has been exceeded. In yet other embodiments the appliance does not perform any of the remaining steps of method .

At steps and the server and appliance perform a transport layer connection handshake. In one embodiment the transport layer handshake comprises a TCP handshake. For example at step the server transmits a TCP SYN packet. In response at step the appliance transmits a TCP SYN ACK packet . In response to the TCP SYN ACK and to complete the handshake the server transmits a TCP ACK packet. In other embodiments the method is practiced without the handshake of steps and such as in the case of UDP which is a connectionless protocol. In other embodiments a secure UDP connection may be used in which a handshake of any of the steps of or are performed such as for an SSL or TLS UDP connection.

At step the appliance generates creates or otherwise provides a protocol control block pcb for the appliance to server connection. In one embodiment the appliance creates a client side pcb upon successful establishment of the first transport layer connection between the appliance and the server . In some embodiments the pcb is referred to as a client side TCP SYNC pcb as it represents the successful establishment of the handshake of steps through . In these embodiments the pcb represents the state of the socket or socket connection of the first transport layer connection. From the perspective of the server in one embodiment it appears to the server that it has established the transport layer connection with the client .

At step the appliance transmits a control message to the client agent via a control connection or communication channel . In some embodiments the control channel comprises a UDP multiplexed channel. In other embodiments the control channel may comprise any type and form of connection including a TCP connection SSL VPN connection or any other transport layer connection. In one embodiment the appliance and client agent communicate via an HTTP connection. In some embodiments the appliance determines the client agent to transmit the control message by the IIP address of the client used in the server initiated transport layer connection request. In one embodiment the IIP address is assigned by the appliance to the user of the client . In another embodiment the IIP address is assigned to the client . The appliance may track the IIP address via a table database mapping IIP addresses to clients or users. In one embodiment the appliance may have a natpcb providing the IIP address mapping.

In one embodiment the appliance sends a message to the client agent identifying information related to the server imitated connection request including any of the protocol the port number of the client the IP address of the server and the port of the server . In some embodiments the appliance transmits to the client the client s IIP address . The appliance may determine the relevant session and corresponding tuple information based on the IIP address . In some embodiments the appliance transmits a UDP multiplexed header to the client agent that comprises information identifying the following information . In the case of a server initiated UDP transport layer connection request the appliance pre pends the UDP multiplexed header to a UDP datagram and transmits the UDP datagram to the client agent .

At step the client agent establishes a second transport layer connection with an application on the client . For example the application may be the intended recipient or target of the server initiated connection request such as NetMeeting active FTP a telnet session or web service. In one embodiment the client agent determines the type of protocol for example whether the server initiated connection request is TCP or UDP from the header . In the case of TCP type protocol the client agent creates a new client side protocol control block. In some embodiments the client agent initiates a local transport layer connection to the application using . In one embodiment the client agent makes a local loopback connection using the client port number identified by the control message and local IP address of the client .

At step the client agent intercepts one or more network packets transmitted by the application to the destination of . In some embodiments the interception mechanism of the client agent intercepts the network packets. In one embodiment the interception mechanism comprises a Transport Driver Interface TDI layer interception mechanism to intercept transport layer network packets. In another embodiment the client agent or interception mechanism intercepts network packets of the application seamlessly and or transparently to the application or user of the application. In some embodiments the client agent intercepts the network packets transmitted via the second transport layer connection or local connection in order to transmit the network packets via third transport layer connection to the appliance . In one embodiment the client agent spoofs the local connection to have a source IP address of the server .

At step the client agent establishes a transport layer connection or third connection with the appliance . In some embodiments the client agent establishes a SSL VPN connection . In one embodiment the client agent and appliance perform a SSL or TLS handshake to establish a secure session over the transport layer connection. In one embodiment the client establishes a transport layer connection with a vServer of the appliance . As such in some embodiments the client agent connects to the IP address and port number of the vServer . In other embodiments the client agent established a connection to the appliance using the IP address of the client on the first network as the source IP address. In another embodiment the client agent uses a source port available on the client to establish the transport layer connection with the appliance . In one embodiment the client agent associates the second transport layer connection or local connection with the third transport layer connection to the appliance .

At step the appliance provided or obtains a protocol control block pcb for the third transport layer connection between the client agent and appliance . In some embodiments this pcb is referred to as the client side HTTP pcb for the SSL over TCP connection . In one embodiment the appliance generates the pcb . In other embodiments the appliance receives the pcb from the client agent . In yet another embodiment the pcb comprises a pcb from a previous client side SSL TCP connection of the client .

At step the client agent transmits a message to the appliance via one of the control connection or the newly established SSL TCP connection . In one embodiment the client agent transmits a control message providing the tuple information of client port server IP address and server port that was provided in the control connect message of step . In another embodiment the control ack message includes the following . In further embodiments the control ack message may also identify the type of protocol. In some embodiments the client agent transmits a control acknowledgement process control block pcb referred to as ctrl ack pcb or control ack pcb via the SSL TCP connection . The appliance may respond to the control message of the client agent . For example in one embodiment the appliance responds with a 200 OK response for the controlack pcb.

At step the appliance associates the client side TCP SYNC pcb with the client side HTTP pcb . In one embodiment the appliance retrieves or lookups up the TCP SYNC pcb associated with the client or IIP address of the client or user of the client. In some embodiments the appliance maintains the association of the pcbs in a table database or other storage location. In another embodiment the appliance provides for the association of the pcbs in a data structure or object in memory. In yet another embodiment the appliance uses a pcb to track the association between the pcbs and .

At step upon establishment of the third transport layer connection and the association of pcbs the appliance forwards data from the server received via the first transport layer connection to the client agent via the third transport layer connection . In one embodiment data from or associated with the client ctrlack pcb is intercepted by an appliance client handler and forwarded to the sinc pcb . In some embodiments the data associated or from sinc pcb is handled by the appliance via a server side or tcp handler and forwarded or sent on the ctrlack pcb . In one embodiment the appliance establishes a listener process upon establishment of the connection and or upon login of the user. In some embodiments the listener process listens for incoming data from the server to forward to the client agent or client . In one embodiment the appliance forwards data coming from the server s IP address and server source port to the client IP address and port number of the client agent of the third transport layer connection . In another embodiment the client agent intercepts traffic from the application directed towards the IP address and port of the server and forward the traffic to the appliance to forward via the first transport layer connection.

In view of the steps of method described above in some embodiments of a hybrid type of server initiated connection the appliance may intercept and modify any of the network packets transmitted between the client and server . As the connection information may be embedded in the payload of these network packets the appliance may read such information from the payload in practicing any of the steps of method described above. Additionally the appliance may modify any of the network packets between the client agent and the appliance in order for the server initiated connection to operate at an application layer protocol level in accordance with the operations described herein. For example the appliance may modify any network packet to change the client IP address to the IIP address . In other examples the appliance may modify any network packets to map the connection information from the server to the third transport layer connection client agent and vice versa from the client agent to the server .

In the case of errors in establishing or user of the server initiated connection the appliance and client agent may communicate such events in order to clean up any of the plurality of connections and to free up resources. For example in one embodiment if the client agent fails to connect to the application after receiving the Server Initiated Connection request the client agent sends an error packet or error control message to the appliance. The appliance then closes the server side transport layer connection. In another embodiment if the appliance to server connection is not alive when the client agent posts its controls acknowledgement to the appliance the appliance sends an HTTP error response to the client agent which then closes the second loop back TCP connection to the appliance and the third transport layer connection to the appliance . The client agent then in one embodiment cleans up the associated resources.

In some embodiments if the client agent cannot send data to the application the client agent closes the connection to the application and the connection to the appliance. In other embodiments the client agent logs any errors sending and receiving data such as in the case of a UDP server initiated connection. In one embodiment upon getting an error indication from the client agent the appliance resets the server connection if the protocol type or connection type is TCP and in the embodiment of UDP the appliance sends a Port Unreachable ICMP error message to the server. In yet another embodiment then the server closes the connection or an error occurs on the server side connection the appliance closes the corresponding client side connection.

In view of the structure functions and operations of the appliance and client agent described above systems and methods are provided for a flexible efficient and transparent method of handling and managing server initiated connections to SSL VPN clients connected to a network via the appliance. As such servers and SSL VPN clients can transparently communicate via connections established by either the server or the client. Although generally described above as a server initiated connection any computing device such as another client connected to the network of the appliance may initiate a connection to an SSL VPN client. The SSL VPN clients seamlessly appear as clients on the network accessed or managed by the appliance. This enables SSL VPN users to take advantage of applications such as collaboration tools that use server initiated connections. Additionally clients of SSL VPN users can provide access to applications and collaboration tools to the other clients and servers on the intranet of the appliance.

Many alterations and modifications may be made by those having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it must be expressly understood that the illustrated embodiments have been shown only for the purposes of example and should not be taken as limiting the invention which is defined by the following claims. These claims are to be read as including what they set forth literally and also those equivalent elements which are insubstantially different even though not identical in other respects to what is shown and described in the above illustrations.

