---

title: Histone demethylation mediated by the nuclear amine oxidase homolog LSD1
abstract: LSD1, a homolog of nuclear amine oxidases, functions as a histone demethylase and transcriptional co-repressor. LSD1 specifically demethylates histone H3 lysine 4, which is linked to active transcription. Lysine demethylation occurs via an oxidation reaction that generates formaldehyde. Importantly, RNAi inhibition of LSD1 causes an increase in H3 lysine 4 methylation and concomitant de-repression of target genes, suggesting that LSD1 represses transcription via histone demethylation. The results thus identify a histone demethylase conserved from to human and reveal dynamic regulation of histone methylation by both histone methylases and demethylases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08323941&OS=08323941&RS=08323941
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 08323941
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100405
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 721 789 filed on Feb. 19 2009 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 741 086 on Jun. 22 2010 which is a National Stage of International Application No PCT US05 045987 filed Dec. 16 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 636 095 filed Dec. 16 2004 each of which is specifically incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made using funds from grant GM071004 from the U.S. National Institutes of Health. The U.S. government therefore retains certain rights in the invention.

This invention is related to the area of gene regulation. In particular it relates to the area of modification of chromosome structure as a means of regulating transcription. This modification importantly impacts disease processes as well as normal physiology and development.

The histone N terminal tails are subjected to multiple covalent modifications that affect chromatin structure and consequently transcription. One of the best characterized modifications is acetylation which is controlled by both histone acetyltransferases HATs and deacetylases HDACs suggesting that acetylation regulation is a dynamic process Kouzarides 2000 . More recently histone methylation has also emerged as a form of posttranslational modification that significantly impacts chromatin structure Rice and Allis 2001 Zhang and Reinberg 2001 . Unlike histone acetylation which takes places only on lysine K methylation occurs on both lysine and arginine R . While acetylation is generally correlated with active transcription Roth et al. 2001 histone methylation is linked to both transcriptional activation and repression Zhang and Reinberg 2001 . For instance histone H3 K9 H3 K9 methylation is associated with heterochromatin formation Nakayama et al. 2001 Peters et al. 2002 Rea et al. 2000 and also euchromatic gene repression Nielsen et al. 2001 Shi et al. 2003 . In the case of heterochromatin assembly H3 K9 is first methylated by Suv39H and the methylated K9 is then recognized and bound by the chromodomain protein HP1 Bannister et al. 2001 Lachner et al. 2001 Nakayama et al. 2001 . The Suv39H HP1 methylation system is proposed to be responsible for heterochromatin propagation. In contrast methylation of histone H3 K4 H3 K4 is linked to active transcription Liang et al. 2004 Litt et al. 2001 Noma et al. 2001 Santos Rosa et al. 2002 Schneider et al. 2004 as is methylation of arginine residues of histone H3 and H4 Zhang and Reinberg 2001 . Mechanisms that underlie methylation dependent transcriptional activation are not completely understood although H3 K4 specific methylases have recently been shown to associate with RNA polymerase II Hamamoto et al. 2004 Ng et al. 2003b .

While histone acetylation is dynamically regulated by HATs and HDACs histone methylation has been considered a permanent modification. At least two models are currently being considered to explain the turnover of methyl groups on histones. The first one suggests that a cell may remove histone methylation by clipping the histone tail Allis et al. 1980 or by replacing the methylated histone with a variant histone in the case of methyl group turnover at H3 K9 Ahmad and Henikoff 2002 Briggs et al. 2001 Johnson et al. 2004 . However this mechanism would not allow for dynamic regulation of histone methylation and the plasticity that may be essential for gene transcription regulation in some biological processes. The second model proposes the existence of histone demethylases that function to remove the methyl groups from lysine and arginine which would make dynamic regulation possible. Recently a human peptidyl arginine deiminase PAD14 PAD4 has been shown to antagonize methylation on the arginine residues by converting arginine to citrulline Cuthbert et al. 2004 Wang et al. 2004 . PAD14 PAD4 catalyzes the deimination reaction irrespective of whether the arginine residue is methylated or not. These findings suggest that histone methylation can be dynamically regulated through the opposing actions of histone methylases and enzymes such as PAD14 PAD4. However since PAD14 PAD4 catalyzes deimination but not demethylation it remains unclear whether bona fide histone demethylases exist. The search for histone demethylases began in the 1960s when Paik and colleagues first reported an enzyme that can demethylate free mono and di N methyllysine Kim et al. 1964 . Subsequently the same investigators partially purified an activity that can demethylate histones Paik and Kim 1973 Paik and Kim 1974 . These early studies suggested the possibility that histone demethylases may exist but the molecular identity of these putative histone demethylases have remained elusive for the past four decades.

Classical amine oxidases play important roles in metabolism and their substrates range from small molecules e.g. spermine and spermidine to proteins. More recently amine oxidases have also been proposed to function as histone demethylases via an oxidation reaction that removes methyl groups from lysine or arginine residues of histones Bannister et al. 2002 . KIAA0601 encodes a protein that shares significant sequence homology with FAD dependent amine oxidases Humphrey et al. 2001 Shi et al. 2003 . We identified KIAA0601 NPAO as a component of the CtBP co repressor complex Shi et al. 2003 and it has also been found in a number of other co repressor complexes including NRD Tong et al. 1998 Co REST You et al. 2001 and subsets of the HDAC complexes Hakimi et al. 2002 Hakimi et al. 2003 Humphrey et al. 2001 . Recent studies of the homolog SPR 5 provided genetic evidence for a role in transcriptional repression Eimer et al. 2003 Jarriault and Greenwald 2002 . However its exact role in transcriptional regulation has been unclear.

There is a continuing need in the art to identify the components of the transcription regulatory system so that they can be manipulated to treat diseases that involve aberrations of the system.

In one embodiment of the invention a method is provided for monitoring eukaryotic histone demethylase activity. An eukaryotic histone demethylase protein is contacted with a histone peptide. The histone peptide is lysine or arginine methylated. The methylation status of the histone peptide is determined.

A second embodiment of the invention provides a method of screening for modulators of eukaryotic histone demethylase activity. An eukaryotic histone demethylase protein and a histone peptide are contacted in the presence and in the absence of a test substance. The histone peptide is lysine methylated. The methylation status of the histone peptide is determined A test substance is identified as an inhibitor of eukaryotic histone demethylase activity if more methylated lysine is found in the presence than in the absence of the test substance. A test substance is identified as an enhancer of eukaryotic histone demethylase protein activity if less methylated lysine is found in the presence than in the absence of the test substance.

A third embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methylated histone activated genes. An RNAi for an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the eukaryotic histone demethylase.

A fourth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methylated histone activated genes. An antisense RNA for an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the eukaryotic histone demethylase.

A fifth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methylated histone activated genes. An antisense construct for an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the eukaryotic histone demethylase.

A sixth embodiment of the invention provides a method of down regulating methylated histone activated genes. An expression vector encoding an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to increase expression of the eukaryotic histone demethylase in the cell.

A seventh embodiment of the invention provides a method of screening for modulators of LSD1 activity. A LSD1 protein and a histone peptide are contacted in the presence and in the absence of a test substance. The histone peptide comprises at least six contiguous amino acid residues of histone H3 which include lysine residue 4 and the lysine residue 4 is mono or di methylated. The methylation status of the histone peptide is determined A test substance is identified as an inhibitor of LSD1 activity if more methylated lysine is found in the presence than in the absence of the test substance. A test substance is identified as an enhancer of LSD1 activity if less methylated lysine residue 4 is found in the presence than in the absence of the test substance.

An eighth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methyl lysine 4 histone 3 activated genes. An RNAi for LSD1 is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the LSD1 histone demethylase.

A ninth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methyl lysine 4 histone 3 activated genes. An antisense RNA for LSD1 histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the LSD1 histone demethylase.

A tenth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methyl lysine 4 histone 3 activated genes. An antisense construct for an LSD1 histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of the LSD1 histone demethylase.

An eleventh embodiment of the invention provides a method of down regulating methyl lysine 4 histone 3 activated genes. An expression vector encoding LSD1 histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to increase expression of the eukaryotic histone demethylase in the cell.

A twelfth embodiment of the invention provides a method of up regulating methylated histone repressed genes. An inhibitor for an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to inhibit activity of the eukaryotic histone demethylase.

A thirteenth embodiment of the invention provides a method of down regulating methylated histone activated genes. An enhancer of an eukaryotic histone demethylase is administered to cells in an amount sufficient to increase activity of the eukaryotic histone demethylase. Other embodiments are further described in the claims and specification.

Also provided herein are methods for identifying an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a CoREST protein. A method may comprise contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a CoREST reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the CoREST reagent wherein a different level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the CoREST reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a CoREST protein. A method may further comprise at least one other component of a histone demethylase transcription complex. A method may further comprise determining the effect of the test agent on a biological activity of the histone demethylase e.g. by a method comprising contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a CoREST reagent with the test agent and determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase.

Further provided are methods for identifying an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. A method may comprise i contacting a histone demethylase reagent with a CoREST reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. The biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent is demethylase activity or amine oxidase activity. The CoREST reagent may comprise at least about amino acids 293 to 381 at least about amino acids 293 to 482 of human CoREST.

A method for identifying an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a BHC80 protein may comprise contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a BHC80 reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the BHC80 reagent wherein a different level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the BHC80 reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a BHC80 protein. A method may further comprise at least one other component of a histone demethylase transcription complex. A method may further comprise determining the effect of the test agent on a biological activity of the histone demethylase e.g. by a method comprising contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a HDC80 reagent with the test agent and determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase.

A method for identifying an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase may comprise i contacting a histone demethylase reagent with a HDC80 reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. The biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent may be demethylase activity or amine oxidase activity.

Also provided herein are molecular complexes or compositions e.g. pharmaceutical compositions comprising a histone demethylase reagent and a CoREST reagent and or a BHC80 reagent.

A method for repressing the transcription of a methylated histone activated gene in a cell may comprise contacting the cell with or administering into the cell an agent that increases the protein or activity level of a histone demethylase in the cell. The agent may be a histone demethylase protein or functional homolog thereof The agent may also be a nucleic acid encoding a histone demethylase protein or functional homolog thereof The agent may be an agent that increases the level of protein or activity of CoREST. The agent may be a CoREST protein or functional homolog thereof The agent may be a nucleic acid encoding a CoREST protein or functional homolog thereof The agent may be an agent that stimulates the interaction between a histone demethylase and CoREST. The agent may be an agent that decreases the level of protein or activity of BHC80 e.g. a BHC80 siRNA or an agent that inhibits the interaction between a histone demethylase and BHC80. The method may further comprise contacting the cell with or administering into the cell a second agent that increases the level or protein or activity of a histone deacetylase HDAC . The second agent may be an HDAC protein or a functional homolog thereof The second agent may be a nucleic acid encoding an HDAC protein or a functional homolog thereof.

Other exemplary methods provided herein include methods for increasing the transcription of a methylated histone activated gene in a cell comprising contacting the cell with an agent that decreases the protein or activity level of a histone demethylase in the cell. The agent may be a histone demethylase siRNA an agent that decreases the protein or activity level of CoREST in the cell such as a CoREST siRNA an agent that inhibits the interaction between a histone demethylase and CoREST an agent that increases the level of protein or activity of BHC80 such as a BHC80 protein or functional homolog thereof or a nucleic acid encoding a BHC80 protein or functional homolog thereof or an agent that stimulates the interaction between a histone demethylase and BHC80. A method may further comprise contacting the cell with or administering into the cell a second agent that decreases the level or activity of an HDAC.

A method for treating or preventing a disease associated with the abnormal expression of a methylated histone activated gene in a subject may comprise administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an agent that modulates the level of protein or activity of a histone demethylase. The disease may be a hyperproliferative disease e.g. cancer and the agent is an agent that increases the level of protein or activity of a histone demethylase. The method may further comprise administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a second agent that increases the level of protein or activity of a histone deacetylase. The first and second agents may be administered to the subject by intratumoral injection perfusion of a target tissue through its vasculature or by direct injection to a target tissue.

These and other embodiments which will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the specification provide the art with reagents and methods for drug screening and therapy relating to histone methylation neurological diseases and cancer.

It is a discovery of the present inventors that LSD1 functions as a transcriptional co repressor that participates in the silencing of endogenous neuron specific genes. Significantly RNAi knock down of LSD1 results in an increase in histone H3 K4 methylation and a concomitant de repression of the target genes. These findings indicate that LSD1 represses transcription by demethylating histone H3 at K4 whose methylation is linked to active transcription Liang et al. 2004 Litt et al. 2001 Noma et al. 2001 Santos Rosa et al. 2002 Schneider et al. 2004 . Since LSD1 and its related proteins are present from to mammals demethylation is likely an evolutionarily conserved function for this family of proteins. The identification of LSD1 as a histone demethylase indicates that histone methylation like histone acetylation is a dynamic process and is subject to regulation by both methylases and demethylases.

It has also been shown herein that the activity of LSD1 is modulated by its interaction with other proteins such as CoREST and BHC80 as well as by the acetylation status of histones that are bound to the promoter of LSD1 target genes.

Provided herein are methods for modulating the expression of genes that are regulated by methylation demethylation of a transcriptional regulator protein such as a histone demethylase target gene . Some genes are upregulated by methylation of a histone methylated histone activated genes whereas other genes are downregulated by methylation of a histone methylated histone repressed gene . The following genes are upregulated by the methylation of histone H3 at the lysine K4 M4 AchR SCN1A SCN2A SCN3A and p57. Other target genes include those containing a REST respsonsive repressor element 1 RE1 . These genes are repressed by a demethylase such as LSD1. Accordingly the expression of these methylated histone activated genes can be repressed by the presence of LSD1 and activated or derepressed by removing LSD1 such as by using an LSD1 siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant. Similarly methylated histone activated genes can be represssed by the presence of CoREST and activated or derepressed by removing CoREST such as by using a CoREST siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant. In addition methylated histone activated genes can be represssed by removing BHC80 such as by using a BHC80 siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant and activated by the presence of BHC80. The methylated histone activated genes may also be modulated by modulating the expression of one or more of LSD1 CoREST and BHC80.

Genes that are downregulated by the methylation of histone H3 include those that are regulated by the androgen receptor Metzger et al. 2005 Nature 437 436 such as those containing an androgen receptor element ARE in their promoter. Exemplary genes that are regulated by the androgen receptor include prostate specific antigen isoform 1 PSA NP001639 Synaptotagmin like 4 SYTL4 CAI42004 nerve growth factor receptor associated protein 1 NGFRAP1 CAI41523 6 phosphofructo 2 kinase fructose 2 6 biphosphatase 1 PFKFB1 NP002616 fatty acid synthase FAS NP004095 and Proteinase activated receptor 1 precursor PAR 1 P25116 . Genes regulated by the androgen receptor may be activated by a demethylase such as LSD1. Accordingly the expression of these methylated histone repressed genes can be activated or derepressed by the presence of LSD1 and repressed by removing LSD1 such as by using an LSD1 siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant. Expression of methylated histone repressed genes can also be activated or derepressed by the presence of CoREST and repressed by removing CoREST such as by using a CoREST siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant. In addition methylated histone repressed genes can be activated by removing BHC80 such as by using a BHC80 siRNA or antisense or dominant negative mutant and repressed by the presence of BHC80. The methylated histone repressed genes may also be modulated by modulating the expression of one or more of LSD1 CoREST and BHC80.

The following Table I summarizes how gene expression of methylated histone repressed and histone activated genes can be modulated 

In Table I increase of a protein refers to increasing its level of protein or activity. Increasing the level of protein or activity of a particular protein in a cell may be achieved by contacting the cell with or administering into the cell the protein or a functional homolog thereof a nucleic acid e.g. an expression vector encoding the protein or a functional homolog thereof an agent that upregulates the level of expression of the gene encoding the protein or an agent that upregulates the activity of the protein such as a cofactor. Increasing the level of protein or activity of a protein may be by a factor of at least about 50 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 30 fold 50 fold or 100 fold.

In Table I decrease of a protein refers to decreasing its level of protein or activity. Decreasing the level of protein or activity of a particular protein in a cell may be achieved by contacting the cell with or administering into the cell an siRNA an antisense a ribozyme a triplex nucleic acid a dominant negative mutant of the protein a substrate mimetic an agent that down regulates the expression of the gene encoding the protein or an agent that decreases the activity of the protein. Decreasing the level of protein or activity of a protein may be by a factor of at least about 50 2 fold 5 fold 10 fold 30 fold 50 fold or 100 fold.

Eukaryotic histone demethylase enzymes according to the present invention are those eukaryotic proteins which have a SWIRM domain a FAD binding motif and an amine oxidase domain. The presence of these domains can be determined using tools available in the art including NCBI GenBank and NCBI Conserved Domain Search Program. Particular exemplary members of this class of enzymes are shown in .

A histone demethylase may be an enzyme that demethylates the residue K4 on histone H3 a H3 K4 demethylase . An exemplary H3 K4 demethylase is LSD1 which is also referred to as FAD binding protein BRAF35 HDAC complex 110 kDa subunit BHC110 KIAA0601 and amine oxidase flavin containing domain 2 AOF2 . The protein exists in two isoforms variant 1 represents the longer transcript and encodes the longer isoform a and variant 2 lacks two alternate in frame exons compared to variant 1 resulting in a shorter protein isoform b compared to isoform a.

The following Table Table 2 provides references for the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the human LSD1 proteins 

Another demethylase is AOF1 or amine oxidase flavin containing domain 1 protein. The amino acid and nucleotide sequences of human AOF1 are set forth in GenBank Accession numbers NM153042 SEQ ID NO 36 and NP694587 SEQ ID NO 37 and in SEQ ID NOs 26 and 27 respectively. An NAD FAD dependent oxidoreductase domain is located at about amino acids 268 588 and a flaying containing amine oxidoreductase domain located at about amino acids 319 587 and 267 322 of SEQ ID NO 37.

 CoREST is a corepressor of RE1 silencing transcription factor REST and is also referred to as REST corepressor 1 and RCOR1 . The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of human CoREST are set forth in GenBank Accession Nos. NM015156.1 and NP055971.1 482 amino acids which correspond to SEQ ID NOs 32 and 33 respectively. The human protein contains the following conserved domains SANT1 about amino acids 190 293 SANT2 about amino acids 381 450 and ELM about amino acids 105 182 .

 BHC80 is also referred to as PHD finger protein 21A PHF21A BM 006 and KIAA1696 and is a component of the BRAF35 HDAC2 complex or BRAF35 HDAC2 complex 80 kDa . The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the human BHC80 are set forth in GenBank Accession Nos. NM016621.2 and NP057705.2 which correspond to SEQ ID NOs 34 and 35 respectively. The human protein contains a PHD zinc finger domain at about amino acids 444 487.

BHC is a multiprotein complex consisting of two enzymatic activities a histone deacetylase HDAC1 or 2 and LSD1.

Human histone H3 is encoded by the nucleotide sequence set forth in GenBank Accession No. NM003493.2 and has the amino acid sequence set forth in GenBank Accession No. NP003484.1.

A homolog of a protein of interest such as LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 includes proteins comprising or consisting of an amino acid sequence that has at least about 70 80 90 95 98 or 99 identity with the amino acid sequence of the protein described herein such as SEQ ID NOs 23 26 29 31 33 35 and 37. A homolog may also be a protein that is encoded by a nucleic acid that has at least about 70 80 90 95 98 or 99 identity with a nucleotide sequence described herein such as SEQ ID NOs 24 27 28 30 32 34 and 36 or the coding sequence thereof A homolog may also be a protein that is encoded by a nucleic acid that hybridizes e.g. under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic acid consisting of a nucleotide sequence described herein e.g. SEQ ID NOs 24 27 28 30 32 34 and 36 or the coding sequence thereof.

For example homologs may be encoded by nucleic acids that hybridize under high stringency conditions of 0.2 to 1 SSC at 65 C. followed by a wash at 0.2 SSC at 65 C. to a nucleic acid consisting of a sequence described herein. Nucleic acids that hybridize under low stringency conditions of 6 SSC at room temperature followed by a wash at 2 SSC at room temperature to nucleic acid consisting of a sequence described herein or a portion thereof can be used. Other hybridization conditions include 3 SSC at 40 or 50 C. followed by a wash in 1 or 2 SSC at 20 30 40 50 60 or 65 C. Hybridizations can be conducted in the presence of formaldehyde e.g. 10 20 30 40 or 50 which further increases the stringency of hybridization. Theory and practice of nucleic acid hybridization is described e.g. in S. Agrawal ed. Methods in Molecular Biology volume 20 and Tijssen 1993 Laboratory Techniques in biochemistry and molecular biology hybridization with nucleic acid probes e.g. part I chapter 2 Overview of principles of hybridization and the strategy of nucleic acid probe assays Elsevier New York provide a basic guide to nucleic acid hybridization.

Homologs of proteins described herein such as LSD1 CoREST and BHC80 may also be analogs e.g. that differ from the naturally occurring protein e.g. a protein having an amino acid sequence set forth as SEQ ID NO 23 26 29 31 33 35 and 37 by conservative amino acid sequence differences or by modifications which do not affect sequence or by both. Analogs can differ from naturally occurring proteins by conservative amino acid sequence differences or by modifications which do not affect sequence or by both. Any number of procedures may be used for the generation of mutant derivative or variant forms of a protein of interest using recombinant DNA methodology well known in the art such as for example that described in Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York and Ausubel et al. 1997 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Green Wiley New York .

For example conservative amino acid changes may be made which although they alter the primary sequence of the protein or peptide do not normally alter its function. Conservative amino acid substitutions typically include substitutions within the following groups glycine alanine valine isoleucine leucine aspartic acid glutamic acid asparagine glutamine serine threonine lysine arginine in positions other than proteolytic enzyme recognition sites phenylalanine tyrosine.

Homologs of a protein of interest also includes portions thereof such as portions comprising one or more conserved domains such as those described herein.

A functional homolog of a protein of interest refers to a homolog of the protein having at least one biological activity of the protein. For example a functional homolog of LSD1 may be a protein having an amine oxidase activity a demethylase activity the ability to bind to another protein such as CoREST or BHC80 or a protein from a nucleosome or other biological activities such as those described herein.

A functional homolog of LSD1 may be a portion of the wild type LSD1 protein including one or more of the conserved domains. A functional homolog of LSD1 may comprise at least a portion of the amino oxidase domain the SWIRM domain and or the FAD binding motif Exemplary functional homologs of LSD1 isoform a include polypeptides comprising from about amino acid 195 190 175 150 or 100 to about amino acid 849 850 860 870 or 876 of SEQ ID NO 29. Exemplary functional homologs of LSD1 isoform b include polypeptides comprising from about amino acid 175 174 170 150 or 100 to about amino acid 825 830 840 850 851 or 852 of SEQ ID NO 31. Functional LSD1 homologs may also include those comprising an amino acid sequence from about amino acid 311 310 300 or 250 to about amino acid 849 850 860 870 or 876 of SEQ ID NO 29 LSD1 isoform a and those comprising an amino acid sequence from about amino acid 291 290 280 270 or 250 to about amino acid 825 830 840 850 851 or 852 of SEQ ID NO 31 homologs comprising the amino oxidase domain . Other LSD1 homologs that may have a biological activity include those comprising the SWIRM domain e.g. about amino acid 195 190 175 150 or 100 to about amino acid 284 285 290 or 300 of SEQ ID NO 29 LSD1 isoform a or about amino acid 175 174 170 150 or 100 to about amino acid 264 265 270 280 290 or 300 of SEQ ID NO 31 LSD1 isoform b .

Functional homologs of AOF1 include an oxidoreductase domain e.g. the NAD FAD dependent oxidoreductase domain or the flavin containing amine oxidoreductase domain. Exemplary functional homologs of AOF1 include those comprising from about amino acid 268 260 250 or 200 to about amino acid 588 590 595 or 600 of SEQ ID NO 37.

Functional homologs of CoREST include the ELM SANT1 and or SANT2 domains. Exemplary functional homologs of CoREST include those comprising about from about amino acid 293 290 280 270 260 or 250 to about amino acid 480 or 482 of SEQ ID NO 33. Other CoREST functional homologs may comprise from about amino acid 293 290 280 270 260 or 250 to about amino acid 381 385 390 or 300 of SEQ ID NO 31.

Functional homologs of BHC80 comprise at least about amino acid 444 440 430 or 400 to about amino acid 487 490 or 500 of SEQ ID NO 35.

Whether a homolog is a functional homolog can be determined according to methods known in the art. For example a demethylase activity can be determined as described in the Examples. An illustrative example for determining whether a demethylase homolog has demethylase activity includes contacting the demethylase homolog with a target peptide that is methylated and determining whether the demethylase homolog is capable of demethylating the target peptide. The assay may further comprise one or more other components such as other proteins e.g. CoREST or cofactors e.g. flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD . A target peptide may be a histone peptide. Any histone peptide can be used. Preferably it is used with a histone demethylase enzyme that recognizes the histone peptide as a substrate. The full histone protein can be used or a peptide comprising only a portion of the histone protein can be used so long as that portion contains the methylated residue upon which the demethylase enzyme acts and the portion contains sufficient contextual residues to permit its recognition by the enzyme. Typically at least 3 at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 or at least 7 residues on either side of the methylated residue are believed to be sufficient for recognition. The methylated residue can be either a lysine or an arginine. Preferably the histone peptide and the histone demethylase are derived from the same species of organism.

Measurement of the reaction between a histone and an eukaryotic histone demethylase protein can be accomplished by any means known in the art. These include without limitation Western blotting measuring formation of formaldehyde mass spectrometry and measuring formation of peroxide.

Methods for modulating the expression of a gene whose expression is modulated by the methylation status of one or more histones may comprise modulating the acetylation deacetylation status of one or more histones. In one embodiment demethylation is facilitated or improved by deacetylation. Accordingly in certain embodiments a method comprising increasing LSD1 protein level or activity in a cell comprises contacting the cell with an agent that increases histone deacetylase HDAC protein or activity levels and or an agent that decreases histone acetylase protein or activity levels. On the other hand a method comprising decreasing LSD1 protein level or activity in a cell may comprise contacting the cell with an agent that decreases HDAC protein or activity levels and or an agent that increases histone acetylase protein or activity levels.

Methods for modulating the expression of a gene whose expression is modulated by the methylation status of one or more histones may also comprise i modulating the methylation status and ii modulating the acetylation status of one or more histones involved in regulating the expression of the gene.

The following Table Table 4 summarizes how gene expression of methylated histone repressed and histone activated genes can be modulated by modulating the level of protein or activity of deacetylases or acetylases 

An acetylase is used interchangeable herein with acetyl transferase and refers to an enzyme that catalyzes the addition of an acetyl group CHCO to an amino acid. Exemplary acetyl transferases are histone acetyl transferases HAT .

The term deacetylase refers to an enzyme that catalyzes the removal of an acetyl group CHCO from an amino acid. Class I histone deacetylases HDACs includes the yeast Rpd3 like proteins HDAC1 HDAC2 HDAC3 HDAC8 and HDAC11. Class II HDACs includes the yeast Hda1 like proteins HDAC4 HDAC5 HDAC6 HDAC7 HDAC9 and HDAC10 Fischle W. et al. 274 11713 11720 1999 . Class III HDACs includes the silent mating type information regulation 2 Sir2 and homologs thereof such as SIRT1 in humans.

The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of each of these human HDACs and the location of conserved domains in their amino acid sequences is set forth in the following table Table 5 i refers to isoform 

Other sirtuin family members include the yeast Sir2 like genes termed HST genes homologues of Sir two HST1 HST2 HST3 and HST4 and their human homologues.

Methods for modulating gene expression of methylated histone repressed or activated genes may also include modulating the level of protein or activity of methylases. Thus in a situation in which one desires to reduce methylation a method may comprise decreasing the level of protein or activity of one or more methylases whereas in a situation in which one desires to increase methylation a method may comprise increasing the level of protein or activity of one or more methylases.

Nucleic acids e.g. those encoding a protein of interest or functional homolog thereof or a nucleic acid intended to inhibit the production of a protein of interest e.g. siRNA or antisense RNA can be delivered to cells e.g. eukaryotic cells in culture to cells ex vivo and to cells in vivo. The cells can be of any type including without limitation cancer cells stem cells neuronal cells and non neuronal cells. The delivery of nucleic acids can be by any technique known in the art including viral mediated gene transfer liposome mediated gene transfer direct injection into a target tissue organ or tumor injection into vasculature which supplies a target tissue or organ.

Polynucleotides can be administered in any suitable formulations known in the art. These can be as virus particles as naked DNA in liposomes in complexes with polymeric carriers etc. Polynucleotides can be administered to the arteries which feed a tissue or tumor. They can also be administered to adjacent tissue whether tumor or normal which could express the demethylase protein.

Nucleic acids can be delivered in any desired vector. These include viral or non viral vectors including adenovirus vectors adeno associated virus vectors retrovirus vectors lentivirus vectors and plasmid vectors. Exemplary types of viruses include HSV herpes simplex virus AAV adeno associated virus HIV human immunodeficiency virus BIV bovine immunodeficiency virus and MLV murine leukemia virus . Nucleic acids can be administered in any desired format that provides sufficiently efficient delivery levels including in virus particles in liposomes in nanoparticles and complexed to polymers.

The nucleic acids encoding a protein or nucleic acid of interest may be in a plasmid or viral vector or other vector as is known in the art. Such vectors are well known and any can be selected for a particular application. In one embodiment of the invention the gene delivery vehicle comprises a promoter and a demethylase coding sequence. Preferred promoters are tissue specific promoters and promoters which are activated by cellular proliferation such as the thymidine kinase and thymidylate synthase promoters. Other preferred promoters include promoters which are activatable by infection with a virus such as the and interferon promoters and promoters which are activatable by a hormone such as estrogen. Other promoters which can be used include the Moloney virus LTR the CMV promoter and the mouse albumin promoter. A promoter may be constitutive or inducible.

In another embodiment naked polynucleotide molecules are used as gene delivery vehicles as described in WO 90 11092 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 580 859. Such gene delivery vehicles can be either growth factor DNA or RNA and in certain embodiments are linked to killed adenovirus. Curiel et al. Hum. Gene. Ther. 3 147 154 1992. Other vehicles which can optionally be used include DNA ligand Wu et al. J. Biol. Chem. 264 16985 16987 1989 lipid DNA combinations Felgner et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 7413 7417 1989 liposomes Wang et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 84 7851 7855 1987 and microprojectiles Williams et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 88 2726 2730 1991 .

A gene delivery vehicle can optionally comprise viral sequences such as a viral origin of replication or packaging signal. These viral sequences can be selected from viruses such as astrovirus coronavirus orthomyxovirus papovavirus paramyxovirus parvovirus picornavirus poxvirus retrovirus togavirus or adenovirus. In a preferred embodiment the growth factor gene delivery vehicle is a recombinant retroviral vector. Recombinant retroviruses and various uses thereof have been described in numerous references including for example Mann et al. Cell 33 153 1983 Cane and Mulligan Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6349 1984 Miller et al. Human Gene Therapy 1 5 14 1990 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 405 712 4 861 719 and 4 980 289 and PCT Application Nos. WO 89 02 468 WO 89 05 349 and WO 90 02 806. Numerous retroviral gene delivery vehicles can be utilized in the present invention including for example those described in EP 0 415 731 WO 90 07936 WO 94 03622 WO 93 25698 WO 93 25234 U.S. Pat. No. 5 219 740 WO 9311230 WO 9310218 Vile and Hart Cancer Res. 53 3860 3864 1993 Vile and Hart Cancer Res. 53 962 967 1993 Ram et al. Cancer Res. 53 83 88 1993 Takamiya et al. J. Neurosci. Res. 33 493 503 1992 Baba et al. J. Neurosurg. 79 729 735 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 4 777 127 GB 2 200 651 EP 0 345 242 and WO91 02805 .

A polynucleotide of interest can also be combined with a condensing agent to form a gene delivery vehicle. The condensing agent may be a polycation such as polylysine polyarginine polyornithine protamine spermine spermidine and putrescine. Many suitable methods for making such linkages are known in the art.

In an alternative embodiment a polynucleotide of interest is associated with a liposome to form a gene delivery vehicle. Liposomes are small lipid vesicles comprised of an aqueous compartment enclosed by a lipid bilayer typically spherical or slightly elongated structures several hundred Angstroms in diameter. Under appropriate conditions a liposome can fuse with the plasma membrane of a cell or with the membrane of an endocytic vesicle within a cell which has internalized the liposome thereby releasing its contents into the cytoplasm. Prior to interaction with the surface of a cell however the liposome membrane acts as a relatively impermeable barrier which sequesters and protects its contents for example from degradative enzymes. Additionally because a liposome is a synthetic structure specially designed liposomes can be produced which incorporate desirable features. See Stryer Biochemistry pp. 236 240 1975 W.H. Freeman San Francisco Calif. Szoka et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 600 1 1980 Bayer et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 550 464 1979 Rivnay et al. Meth. Enzymol. 149 119 1987 Wang et al. PROC. NATL. ACAD. SCI. U.S.A. 84 7851 1987 Plant et al. Anal. Biochem. 176 420 1989 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 762 915. Liposomes can encapsulate a variety of nucleic acid molecules including DNA RNA plasmids and expression constructs comprising growth factor polynucleotides such those disclosed in the present invention.

Liposomal preparations for use in the present invention include cationic positively charged anionic negatively charged and neutral preparations. Cationic liposomes have been shown to mediate intracellular delivery of plasmid DNA Felgner et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 7413 7416 1987 mRNA Malone et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 6077 6081 1989 and purified transcription factors Debs et al. J. Biol. Chem. 265 10189 10192 1990 in functional form. Cationic liposomes are readily available. For example N 1 2 3 dioleyloxy propyl N N N triethylammonium DOTMA liposomes are available under the trademark Lipofectin from GIBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. See also Felgner et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 5148 5152.87 1994. Other commercially available liposomes include Transfectace DDAB DOPE and DOTAP DOPE Boerhinger . Other cationic liposomes can be prepared from readily available materials using techniques well known in the art. See e.g. Szoka et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75 4194 4198 1978 and WO 90 11092 for descriptions of the synthesis of DOTAP 1 2 bis oleoyloxy 3 trimethylammonio propane liposomes.

Similarly anionic and neutral liposomes are readily available such as from Avanti Polar Lipids Birmingham Ala. or can be easily prepared using readily available materials. Such materials include phosphatidyl choline cholesterol phosphatidyl ethanolamine dioleoylphosphatidyl choline DOPC dioleoylphosphatidyl glycerol DOPG dioleoylphoshatidyl ethanolamine DOPE among others. These materials can also be mixed with the DOTMA and DOTAP starting materials in appropriate ratios. Methods for making liposomes using these materials are well known in the art.

One or more protein e.g. a demethylaes or nucleic acid e.g. siRNA of interest may be encoded by a single nucleic acid delivered. Alternatively separate nucleic acids may encode different protein or nucleic acids of interest. Different species of nucleic acids may be in different forms they may use different promoters or different vectors or different delivery vehicles. Similarly the same protein or nucleic acid of interest may be used in a combination of different forms.

Antisense molecules siRNA or shRNA molecules ribozymes or triplex molecules may be contacted with a cell or administered to an organism. Alternatively constructs encoding these may be contacted with or introduced into a cell or organism. Antisense constructs antisense oligonucleotides RNA interference constructs or siRNA duplex RNA molecules can be used to interfere with expression of a protein of interest e.g. a histone demethylase. Typically at least 15 17 19 or 21 nucleotides of the complement of the mRNA sequence are sufficient for an antisense molecule. Typically at least 19 21 22 or 23 nucleotides of a target sequence are sufficient for an RNA interference molecule. Preferably an RNA interference molecule will have a 2 nucleotide 3 overhang. If the RNA interference molecule is expressed in a cell from a construct for example from a hairpin molecule or from an inverted repeat of the desired histone demethylase sequence then the endogenous cellular machinery will create the overhangs. siRNA molecules can be prepared by chemical synthesis in vitro transcription or digestion of long dsRNA by Rnase III or Dicer. These can be introduced into cells by transfection electroporation or other methods known in the art. See Hannon G J 2002 RNA Interference Nature 418 244 251 Bernstein E et al. 2002 The rest is silence. RNA 7 1509 1521 Hutvagner G et al. RNAi Nature abhors a double strand. Curr. Opin. Genetics Development 12 225 232 Brummelkamp 2002 A system for stable expression of short interfering RNAs in mammalian cells. Science 296 550 553 Lee N S Dohjima T Bauer G Li H Li M J Ehsani A Salvaterra P and Rossi J. 2002 . Expression of small interfering RNAs targeted against HIV 1 rev transcripts in human cells. Nature Biotechnol. 20 500 505 Miyagishi M and Taira K. 2002 . U6 promoter driven siRNAs with four uridine 3 overhangs efficiently suppress targeted gene expression in mammalian cells. Nature Biotechnol. 20 497 500 Paddison P J Caudy A A Bernstein E Hannon G J and Conklin D S. 2002 . Short hairpin RNAs shRNAs induce sequence specific silencing in mammalian cells. Genes Dev. 16 948 958 Paul C P Good P D Winer I and Engelke D R. 2002 . Effective expression of small interfering RNA in human cells. Nature Biotechnol. 20 505 508 Sui G Soohoo C Affar E B Gay F Shi Y Forrester W C and Shi Y. 2002 . A DNA vector based RNAi technology to suppress gene expression in mammalian cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 6 5515 5520 Yu J Y DeRuiter S L and Turner D L. 2002 . RNA interference by expression of short interfering RNAs and hairpin RNAs in mammalian cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 9 6047 6052.

Antisense or RNA interference molecules can be delivered in vitro to cells or in vivo e.g. to tumors of a mammal Typical delivery means known in the art can be used. For example delivery to a tumor can be accomplished by intratumoral injections. Other modes of delivery can be used without limitation including intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intraarterial local delivery during surgery endoscopic subcutaneous and per os. In a mouse model the antisense or RNA interference can be adminstered to a tumor cell in vitro and the tumor cell can be subsequently administered to a mouse. Vectors can be selected for desirable properties for any particular application. Vectors can be viral or plasmid. Adenoviral vectors are useful in this regard. Tissue specific cell type specific or otherwise regulatable promoters can be used to control the transcription of the inhibitory polynucleotide molecules. Non viral carriers such as liposomes or nanospheres can also be used.

Exemplary siRNA or antisense molecules targeting LSD1 genes comprise the following nucleotide sequences or the complement thereof 5 atgtcaaagatgagcagatt 3 SEQ ID NO 38 which targest both mouse and human LSD1 5 ggcgaaggtagagtacagaga 3 SEQ ID NO 39 which targets human LSD1 and 5 ccatggttgtaacaggtctt 3 SEQ ID NO 40 which targets mouse LSD1 .

An exemplary siRNA or antisense molecule targeting human and mouse CoREST genes comprises the following nucleotide sequence or the complement thereof 5 gacaatcttggcatgttggt 3 SEQ ID NO 41 .

An exemplary siRNA or antisense molecule targeting human BHC80 genes comprises the following nucleotide sequences or the complement thereof 5 ggacctcaaactgtacagctt 3 SEQ ID NO 42 .

Also provided herein are compositions e.g. pharmaceutical compositions and kits comprising one or more agent described herein. Kits may further comprise devices for administering the one or more agent to a subject. A device may be a syringe or a stent.

Provided herein are methods of treatment or prevention of conditions and diseases that can be improved by modulating the methylation status of histones and thereby e.g. modulate the level of expression of methylation activated and methylation repressed target genes such as an acetylcholine receptor an SCN gene p57 and genes regulated by the androgen receptor. A method may comprise administering to a subject e.g. a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an agent described herein.

Diseases such as cancers and neurological disease can be treated by administration of modulators of histone methylation e.g. modulators of histone demethylase enzyme activity. Histone methylation has been reported to be involved in overexpression of certain genes in cancers and of silencing of neuronal genes in non neuronal cells. Modulators that are identified by the disclosed methods or modulators that are described herein can be used to treat these diseases i.e. to restore normal methylation to affected cells.

Based at least on the fact that increased histone methylation has been found to be associated with certain cancers a method for treating cancer in a subject may comprise administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of one or more agents that decrease methylation or restores methylation to its level in corresponding normal cells.

It is believed that modulators of methylation can be used for modulating cell proliferation generally. Excessive proliferation may be reduced with agents that decrease methylation whereas insufficient proliferation may be stimulated with agents that increase methylation. Accordingly diseases that may be treated include hyperproliferative diseases such as bening cell growth and malignant cell growths.

Exemplary cancers that may be treated include leukemias e.g. acute lymphoid leukemia and myeloid leukemia and carcinomas such as colorectal carcinoma and hepatocarcinoma. Other cancers include Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Adrenocortical Carcinoma Adrenocortical Carcinoma AIDS Related Cancers AIDS Related Lymphoma Anal Cancer Astrocytoma Childhood Cerebellar Astrocytoma Childhood Cerebral Basal Cell Carcinoma see Skin Cancer non Melanoma Bile Duct Cancer Extrahepatic Bladder Cancer Bladder Cancer Bone Cancer osteosarcoma Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma Brain Stem Glioma Brain Tumor Brain Tumor Brain Stem Glioma Brain Tumor Cerebellar Astrocytoma Brain Tumor Cerebral Astrocytoma Malignant Glioma Brain Tumor Ependymoma Brain Tumor Medulloblastoma Brain Tumor Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors Brain Tumor Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma Brain Tumor Breast Cancer Breast Cancer and Pregnancy Breast Cancer Breast Cancer Male Bronchial Adenomas Carcinoids Burkitt s Lymphoma Carcinoid Tumor Carcinoid Tumor Gastrointestinal Carcinoma of Unknown Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Primary Cerebellar Astrocytoma Cerebral Astrocytoma Malignant Glioma Cervical Cancer Childhood Cancers Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders Colon Cancer Colorectal Cancer Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma see Mycosis Fungoides and S zary Syndrome Endometrial Cancer Ependymoma Esophageal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Ewing s Family of Tumors Extracranial Germ Cell Tumor Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumor Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer Eye Cancer Intraocular Melanoma Eye Cancer Retinoblastoma Gallbladder Cancer Gastric Stomach Cancer Gastric Stomach Cancer Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor Germ Cell Tumor Extracranial Germ Cell Tumor Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumor Ovarian Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor Glioma Glioma Childhood Brain Stem Glioma Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma Glioma Childhood Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Hairy Cell Leukemia Head and Neck Cancer Hepatocellular Liver Cancer Adult Primary Hepatocellular Liver Cancer Childhood Primary Hodgkin s Lymphoma Hodgkin s Lymphoma Hodgkin s Lymphoma During Pregnancy Hypopharyngeal Cancer Hypothalamic and Visual Pathway Glioma Intraocular Melanoma Islet Cell Carcinoma Endocrine Pancreas Kaposi s Sarcoma Kidney Renal Cell Cancer Kidney Cancer Laryngeal Cancer Laryngeal Cancer Leukemia Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Hairy Cell Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer Liver Cancer Adult Primary Liver Cancer Childhood Primary Lung Cancer Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Small Cell Lymphoma AIDS Related Lymphoma Burkitt s Lymphoma Cutaneous T Cell see Mycosis Fungoides and S zary Syndrome Lymphoma Hodgkin s Lymphoma Hodgkin s Lymphoma Hodgkin s During Pregnancy Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s During Pregnancy Lymphoma Primary Central Nervous System Macroglobulinemia Waldenstr m s Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone Osteosarcoma Medulloblastoma Melanoma Melanoma Intraocular Eye Merkel Cell Carcinoma Mesothelioma Adult Malignant Mesothelioma Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Syndrome Multiple Myeloma Plasma Cell Neoplasm Mycosis Fungoides Myelodysplastic Syndromes Myelodysplastic Myeloproliferative Diseases Myelogenous Leukemia Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Childhood Acute Myeloma Multiple Myeloproliferative Disorders Chronic Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Cancer Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nasopharyngeal Cancer Neuroblastoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma During Pregnancy Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Oral Cancer Oral Cavity Cancer Lip and Oropharyngeal Cancer Osteosarcoma Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone Ovarian Cancer Ovarian Epithelial Cancer Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumor Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Islet Cell Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer Parathyroid Cancer Penile Cancer Pheochromocytoma Pineoblastoma and Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors Pituitary Tumor Plasma Cell Neoplasm Multiple Myeloma Pleuropulmonary Blastoma Pregnancy and Breast Cancer Pregnancy and Hodgkin s Lymphoma Pregnancy and Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Prostate Cancer Rectal Cancer Renal Cell Kidney Cancer Renal Cell Kidney Cancer Renal Pelvis and Ureter Transitional Cell Cancer Retinoblastoma Rhabdomyosarcoma Salivary Gland Cancer Salivary Gland Cancer Sarcoma Ewing s Family of Tumors Sarcoma Kaposi s Sarcoma Soft Tissue Sarcoma Soft Tissue Sarcoma Uterine Sezary Syndrome Skin Cancer non Melanoma Skin Cancer Skin Cancer Melanoma Skin Carcinoma Merkel Cell Small Cell Lung Cancer Small Intestine Cancer Soft Tissue Sarcoma Soft Tissue Sarcoma Squamous Cell Carcinoma see Skin Cancer non Melanoma Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary Metastatic Stomach Gastric Cancer Stomach Gastric Cancer Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors T Cell Lymphoma Cutaneous see Mycosis Fungoides and S zary Syndrome Testicular Cancer Thymoma Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma Thyroid Cancer Thyroid Cancer Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter Trophoblastic Tumor Gestational Unknown Primary Site Carcinoma of Unknown Primary Site Cancer of Unusual Cancers of Childhood Ureter and Renal Pelvis Transitional Cell Cancer Urethral Cancer Uterine Cancer Endometrial Uterine Sarcoma Vaginal Cancer Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma Vulvar Cancer Waldenstr m s Macroglobulinemia Wilms Tumor and Women s Cancers.

Neurologic diseases that may be treated include epilepsy schizophrenia bipolar disorder or other psychological and or psychiatric disorders neuropathies skeletal muscle atrophy and neurodegenerative diseases e.g. a neurodegenerative disease. Exemplary neurodegenerative diseases include Alzheimer s Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis ALS and Parkinson s disease. Another class of neurodegenerative diseases includes diseases caused at least in part by aggregation of poly glutamine. Diseases of this class include Huntington s Diseases Spinalbulbar Muscular Atrophy SBMA or Kennedy s Disease Dentatorubropallidoluysian Atrophy DRPLA Spinocerebellar Ataxia 1 SCA1 Spinocerebellar Ataxia 2 SCA2 Machado Joseph Disease MJD SCA3 Spinocerebellar Ataxia 6 SCA6 Spinocerebellar Ataxia 7 SCA7 and Spinocerebellar Ataxia 12 SCA12 .

Any other disease in which epigenetics in particular methylation plays a role is likely to be treatable or preventable by applying methods described herein.

Also provided herein are screening methods for identifying agents that modulate methylation of a target protein such as a histone e.g. lysine 4 K4 of histone 3.

One method comprises identifying an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a CoREST protein comprising contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a CoREST reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the CoREST reagent wherein a different level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the CoREST reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a CoREST protein. The method may further comprise at least one other component of a histone demethylase transcription complex. The method may also comprise determining the effect of the test agent on a biological activity of the histone demethylase. For example a method may further comprise contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a CoREST reagent with the test agent and determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase.

A method for identifying an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase may comprise i contacting a histone demethylase reagent with a CoREST reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. A higher activity indicates that the test agent is an agent that stimulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. The biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent may be demethylase activity or amine oxidase activity. The CoREST reagent may comprise at least about amino acids 293 to 381 or 293 to 482 of human CoREST.

A method for identifying an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a BHC80 protein may comprise contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a BHC80 reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the BHC80 reagent wherein a different level of interaction between the histone demethylase reagent and the BHC80 reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the interaction between a histone demethylase protein and a BHC80 protein. Step i may further comprise at least one other component of a histone demethylase transcription complex. The method may further comprise determining the effect of the test agent on a biological activity of the histone demethylase. The method may comprise contacting a histone demethylase reagent and a HDC80 reagent with the test agent and determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase.

A method for identifying an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase may comprise i contacting a histone demethylase reagent with a HDC80 reagent in the presence of a test agent and ii determining the biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent wherein a different activity of the histone demethylase reagent in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that modulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. A higher activity indicates that the test agent is an agent that stimulates the biological activity of a histone demethylase. The biological activity of the histone demethylase reagent is demethylase activity or amine oxidase activity.

 LSD1 reagent CoREST reagent and BHC80 reagent refers to an LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 protein homolog or functional homolog thereof or portion thereof sufficient for use in the particular assay. For example in an assay for determining whether two proteins interact it is only necessary to include portions of those proteins that interact with each other.

Reagents may comprise at least a portion of a protein of interest e.g. an LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 protein fused directly or indirectly to another moiety or label e.g. a fluorophore or radioactive label or another peptide that may be useful in identifying quantitating isolating or purifying the reagent.

Other methods for identifying agents that modulate demethylase activity include methods using a reporter gene and a gene involved in methylation e.g. LSD1 CoREST or BHC80. A method may comprise i providing a cell or cell lysate comprising an LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 gene or portion e.g. promoter and or enhancer thereof operably linked to a reporter gene and ii contacting the cell or cell lysate with a test agent and iii determining the level of expression of the reporter gene wherein a higher level of expression of the reporter gene in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that increases the level of expression of the LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 gene whereas a lower level of expression of the reporter gene in the presence of the test agent relative to the absence of the test agent indicates that the test agent is an agent that decreases the level of expression of the LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 gene. A reporter gene may encode firefly luciferase chloramphenicol acetyltransferase beta galactosidase green fluorescent protein or alkaline phosphatase.

A screening assay described herein may further comprise testing the effect of the test agent on the demethylase activity in a cell. For example a test reagent may be contacted with or administered into a cell and the level of expression of one or more genes whose expression is regulated by methylation may be measured. Alternatively or in addition the level of protein e.g. LSD1 CoREST or BHC80 protein may be measured.

Test agents or substances for screening as inhibitors or enhancers of the demethylase enzymes can be from any source known in the art. They can be natural products purified or mixtures synthetic compounds members of compound libraries etc. The compounds to be tested may be chosen at random or may be chosen using a filter based on structure and or mechanism of the enzymes. The test substances can be selected from those that have previously identified to have biological or drug activity or from those that have not. In some embodiments a natural substrate is the starting point for designing an inhibitor. Modifications to make the substrate non modifiable by the enzyme can be used to make an inhibitor.

Also provided herein are compositions and molecular complexes comprising one or more proteins described herein. A composition may be a pharmaceutical composition.

All publications including patents applications and GenBank Accession numbers mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. In case of conflict the present application including any definitions herein will control.

The invention now being generally described it will be more readily understood by reference to the following examples which are included merely for purposes of illustration of certain aspects and embodiments of the present invention and are not intended to limit the invention.

To understand the function and mechanism of action of KIAA0601 we undertook molecular biochemical and enzymological analyses of the protein. Using multiple experimental approaches we demonstrate that KIAA0601 is a lysine specific demethylase with substrate specificity for K4 methylated histone H3. We now refer to protein as LSD1 Lysine Specific Demethylase 1 to reflect this newly identified role. The text and figures corresponding to this example may be found in Shi et al. Cell 2004 119 903 which is specifically incorporated by reference herein.

Since LSD1 has been found in a number of co repressor complexes Hakimi et al. 2002 Hakimi et al. 2003 Humphrey et al. 2001 Shi et al. 2003 Tong et al. 1998 You et al. 2001 we wished to determine whether it plays a direct role in transcriptional repression. We first asked whether LSD1 functions as a repressor when directed to a target promoter. When fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain G4LSD1 LSD1 repressed G4 TK Luc reporter gene in a dose dependent manner. As a control G4 DNA binding domain alone G4DBD had no repressive effect on the same promoter and instead activated the promoter slightly. Furthermore G4LSD1 had no effect on TK Luc reporter lacking the G4 binding sites suggesting that repression was not due to squelching. Importantly a C terminal deletion mutant G4LSD1 C that lacks a large portion of the amine oxidase homologous region diagrammed in and is therefore enzymatically inactive see below was significantly compromised in its ability to repress transcription although some residual repression activity was observed for this mutant. Since repression mediated by LSD1 requires the C terminal amine oxidase homology domain the transcriptional function of LSD1 may therefore be linked to its enzymatic activity.

LSD1 is a flavin containing protein based on its ability to bind FAD Humphrey et al. 2001 and data not shown . Its sequence homology with amine oxidases predicts that LSD1 may catalyze oxidation reactions of biogenic amines including monoamine polyamines or N methylated protein substrates such as histones Bannister et al. 2002 . Amine oxidation catalyzed by flavin containing amine oxidase is characterized by oxidative cleavage of the a carbon bond of the substrate to form an imine intermiediate which in turn is hydrolyzed to form an aldehyde and amine via a non enzymatic process. In a complete catalytic cycle the cofactor FAD is reduced to FADHand then is likely to be re oxidized by oxygen to produce hydrogen peroxide Binda et al. 2002 . We hypothesized that as a flavin containing amine oxidase homolog LSD1 may catalyze the conversion of mono or dimethylated K or R to non methylated K or R and formaldehyde . Since LSD1 is a transcriptional co repressor we further speculated that it might specifically remove methyl groups from lysine or arginine whose methylation is linked to active transcription. We chose to focus on H3 K4 methylation since this is one of the best characterized sites where both di and tri methylation have been linked to active transcription Liang et al. 2004 Litt et al. 2001 Noma et al. 2001 Santos Rosa et al. 2002 Schneider et al. 2004 . To investigate this possibility a histidine epitope tagged LSD1 HIS LSD1 was expressed in bacteria and purified to near homogeneity . FAD was found to co purify with LSD1 rendering the purified protein yellow which is characteristic of FAD bound proteins. The HIS LSD1 proteins were incubated with histone H3 peptides carrying dimethylated K4 diMeK4H3 or K9 diMeK9H3 and the methylation status was determined using a diMeK4H3 or diMeK9H3 specific antibody respectively. Even the lowest amount of LSD1 used 1 g 10 pmole effectively reduced dimethylation level at K4 1 nmole of diMeK4H3 but had no effect on non methylated H3. This represented approximately 1 100 molar ratio of LSD1 to diMeK4H3 consistent with this being an enzyme driven reaction. In contrast LSD1 failed to reduce the dimethylation level at K9 indicating substrate specificity of this enzyme. The significant reduction of the methylation signal on K4 in the presence of LSD1 was not due to degradation of the diMeK4H3 peptides since LSD1 had no affect on the stability of the H3 peptides. This putative enzymatic activity is abolished upon heat treatment which caused protein denaturation consistent with the possibility that LSD1 was the enzyme responsible for the observed demethylation. As a control FMS1 which is an amine oxidase related to LSD1 in sequence failed to catalyze the same enzymatic reaction. In contrast FMS1 has previously been shown to catalyze oxidation of polyamine Landry and Sternglanz 2003 . Importantly HIS LSD1 had barely detectable polyamine oxidation activity yielding only a two fold above background signal which was about a thousand fold less active than FMS1. Therefore LSD1 is likely a histone demethylase but not a polyamine oxidase. Significantly the same C terminal deletion mutant LSD1 C which was compromised transcriptionally also failed to demethylate diMeK4H3 peptides suggesting that LSD1 mediated transcriptional repression may be linked to this potential histone demethylase activity.

We next asked whether LSD1 can mediate demethylation reactions using native histones isolated from HeLa cells as substrates. Wild type LSD1 but not LSD1 C significantly reduced the signals detected by the diMeK4H3 antibody. The same blot was re probed by a pan H3 acetylation antibody which detected similar levels of acetylation with or without LSD1 suggesting that the loss of the methylation signal was not due to fortuitous degradation of histone H3. We next determined whether LSD1 could catalyze demethylation of histone H3 with either mono or tri methylated K4 the latter modification being also linked to active transcription. While LSD1 reduced the signal representing mono methylated K4 of histone H3 it had no effect on trimethylated K4. The inability of LSD1 to convert tri methylated K4 to an unmodified product is likely to be due to the inherent chemistry of the flavin containing amine oxdases which requires a protonated nitrogen in the substrates thus restricting the substrates to mono or dimethylated peptides . The modification specific antibodies used in the above assays were either commercial antibodies see experimental procedures or antibodies that have been reported in the literatures e.g. anti diMeK79H3 and anti diMeK20H4 Feng Q 2002 and Fang J 2002 .

To further determine the substrate specificity of LSD1 we examined a number of other amino acid residues on histones whose methylation is likely to be linked to active transcription including K36 and K79 of histone H3 Feng et al. 2002 Krogan et al. 2003 Ng et al. 2003a Schaft et al. 2003 R2 R17 and R26 of histone H3 Bauer et al. 2002 Chen et al. 1999 Schurter et al. 2001 and R3 of histone H4 Strahl et al. 2001 . We found no difference in the signal intensity detected by Western blotting in the presence or absence of LSD1 using the modification specific antibodies designed to visualize methylation at these sites suggesting a high level of substrate specificity of this putative enzymatic activity. LSD1 also failed to remove the methyl groups from H3 K9 H3 K27 and H4 K20 modifications that are linked to transcriptional silencing Cao et al. 2002 Czermin 2002 2921 Fang et al. 2002 Kuzmichev et al. 2002 Muller et al. 2002 Nishioka et al. 2002 Rea et al. 2000 . Similar to the bacterially purified LSD1 endogenous LSD1 isolated from HeLa cells also displayed the same substrate specificity as the recombinant HIS LSD1 protein. Taken together these findings support our model that LSD1 functions as a transcriptional co repressor by demethylating sites associated with active transcription but not repression.

To confirm the above results we turned to mass spectrometry. As predicted by the chemical reaction outlined in demethylation of a dimethyl K4 histone H3 by LSD1 is expected to regenerate an unmodified histone H3 with the net loss of 28 Dalton equal to the molecular weight of 2 CH. K4 and K9 dimethylated histone H3 peptides were incubated with purified HIS LSD1 respectively and the reaction mixtures were analyzed by mass spectrometry. The diMeK4H3 peptide peaked at molecular mass of 2863 Dalton as expected. Significantly upon incubation with HIS LSD1 but not HIS LSD1 C a new peak appeared at a molecular mass of 2835 Dalton that corresponded to the molecular weight of the unmodified histone H3 peptide. As a control the K9 dimethylated H3 peptides were found to be unaffected by HIS LSD1 consistent with the Western blotting results described earlier. Taken together these findings strongly suggest that LSD1 is a histone demethylase with a substrate preference for methylated K4 over K9 of histone H3.

We used a third independent method to investigate the possibility that LSD1 is a histone demethylase. As shown in the demethylation reaction mediated by LSD1 is predicted to generate formaldehyde. To determine whether formaldehyde was produced in LSD1 mediated enzymatic reactions we first used the formaldehyde dehydrogenase FDH assay to detect the presence of formaldehyde Lizcano et al. 2000 . This assay employs formaldehyde dehydrogenase to convert formaldehyde to formic acid using NAD as the electron acceptor whose reduction to NADH can be spectrophotometrically measured at OD 340 nm. Thus when the demethylation reaction is coupled with the FDH assay the enzymatic activity of LSD1 and reaction kinetics can be determined by measuring the production of NADH. A standard curve was first generated using purified FDH EC 1.2.1.46 NAD and different concentrations of formaldehyde ranging from 1 M to 10 mM within which a linear relationship was found between the production of NADH and the range of formaldehyde used in the assay. Subsequently the coupled demethylation FDH assays were carried out within this linear range and were initiated with the addition of the diMeK4H3 substrates. The continuous production of the formaldehyde as the demethylation proceeded was monitored by OD measurement at 340 nm at different time points. A robust increase of absorbance at 340 nm was observed within the first five minutes of the reaction indicating that substantial amounts of formaldehyde were produced in the LSD1 catalyzed demethylation reaction. The fact that formaldehyde was generated in the demethylation reaction strongly suggests that the reaction had occurred as proposed in . Increasing the amount of either the enzyme LSD1 or the substrates diMeK4H3 in the demethylation reaction resulted in a dose responsive increase in the conversion of NAD to NADH respectively. We next used the demethylation FDH coupled spectrophotometric assay as another independent means to investigate the substrate specificity of LSD1. Only when HIS LSD1 was incubated with diMeK4H3 but not diMeR2H3 or diMeK9H3 did we detect a robust increase in the absorbance at OD 340 nm indicating the production of formaldehyde and thus successful demethylation. Furthermore we failed to detect formaldehyde when triMeK4H3 was used as substrate suggesting that LSD1 is also unable to catalyze demethylation of the triMeK4H3 peptide. This result is consistent with the Western blotting assays using modification specific antibodies.

To further confirm the production of formaldehyde in the LSD1 mediated demethylation reaction we next used Electrospray Ionization Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry ESI LC MS to detect formaldehyde. The formaldehyde produced in the demethylation reaction was captured by dimedone to irreversibly form the dimedone adduct formaldemethone which can be detected by the absorbance at OD 254 nm Rozylo et al. 2000 . The formaldemethone was eluted from an HPLC column and the mass of the formaldehyde derivative was analyzed by LC MS. Using this assay we identified formaldehyde in the LSD1 but not LSD1 C mediated demethylation reaction. Taken together mass spectrometry and the FDH assay identified formaldehyde and unmodified histone H3 peptides as the products of the demethylation reaction catalyzed by LSD1.

We next asked whether native LSD1 regulates endogenous target gene transcription and histone demethylation in vivo. Previous studies identified LSD1 in the Co REST complex whose primary function is to silence neuronal specific genes in non neuronal cells Ballas et al. 2001 . A number of Co REST target genes have been reported including genes that encode the sodium channels SCNs and acetylcholine receptors AchR Lunyak et al. 2002 . We asked whether these promoters can be de repressed when LSD1 was knocked down by DNA vector based RNAi Sui et al. 2002 . The lsdl RNAi plasmid reduced LSD1 expression efficiently as judged by immunostaining and Western blotting. Concomitant with the decrease in LSD1 expression we observed an increase in M4 AchR SCN1A SCN2A and SCN3A expression as determined by RT PCR. De repression of these target genes in the LSD1 knockdown cells indicates that LSD1 is an essential component of the Co REST complex and is likely to be required for silencing specific neuronal genes in non neuronal cells. However LSD1 targets are probably not limited to neuron specific genes. We also identified p57 a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor Lee et al. 1995 as a potential LSD1 target gene whose transcription also appeared to be negatively regulated by LSD1. Interestingly p57has recently been shown to play a role in developing dopamine cells Joseph et al. 2003 .

We next investigated whether LSD1 regulates histone demethylation in vivo. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP we found LSD1 located at the target gene promoters within 2 kb of the transcription initiation site in HeLa or control RNAi treated cells but LSD1 promoter occupancy was significantly reduced in the lsdl RNAi cells.

Importantly concomitant with the decrease of LSD1 occupancy at the target promoters we observed an increase in H3 K4 dimethylation that coincided with the increase in the promoter activity. Thus LSD1 promoter occupancy appears to be inversely correlated with promoter activity and H3 K4 dimethylation. Taken together these findings support the hypothesis that LSD1 regulates histone K4 demethylation at specific loci in vivo which is correlated with LSD1 mediated repression of target gene transcription.

We have provided multiple lines of evidence that support the conclusion that LSD1 is a histone lysine demethylase. These include the direct demethylation assays mass spectrometry and the demethylation FDH coupled spectrophotometric assays that revealed the demethylation products i.e. demethylated histone peptides mass spectrometry and formaldehyde FDH and mass spectrometry . We have also shown that LSD1 functions as a transcriptional co repressor and plays an important role in restricting neuron specific gene transcription in non neuronal HeLa cells. Importantly RNAi inhibition of LSD1 resulted in an increase in H3 K4 methylation which is linked to active transcription and a concomitant de repression of the target genes suggesting that LSD1 mediates transcriptional repression via histone demethylation in vivo.

Strikingly as a histone demethylase LSD1 displays stringent substrate specificity which is manifested at two different levels. First LSD1 is able to distinguish histone H3 peptides with the same type of methylation dimethylation on lysine that occurred on different lysine residues K4 versus K9 K36 and K79 . It is possible that the sequences surrounding these two lysine residues may contribute to this selectivity. Second the substrate specificity of LSD1 is further highlighted by its ability to discriminate between di and tri methylation methylation on the same lysine H3 K4. The inability to demethylate triMeK4H3 is consistent with the chemical nature of the amine oxidation reaction catalyzed by flavin containing amine oxidases which requires a protonated nitrogen and thus precludes triMeK4H3 as a substrate and Bannister et al. 2002 . This suggests that either triMeK4H3 turnover is accomplished by histone replacement or by an unidentified triMeK4H3 specific demethylase. Alternatively additional mechanisms such as direct hydroxylation of the methyl groups may be involved in converting triMeK4H3 to an unmodified product. Our findings further suggest that additional histone demethylases are yet to be identified that would catalyze demethylation reactions at other lysine and or arginine residues that are associated with either activation or repression of transcription.

Kinetic analysis of LSD1 provided further support that LSD1 is a histone demethylase. The apparent Km for the diMeK4H3 substrates is approximately 30 M which is comparable to other histone modifying enzymes such as the NAD dependent histone deacetylase Sir2 Boma et al. 2004 . The actual Km for the demethylation reaction in mammalian cells is likely to be lower since not all purified HIS LSD1 proteins are expected to be fully active. Possible posttranslational modifications of LSD1 as well as interacting proteins of LSD1 may further enhance its activity in mammalian cells. The fact that the physiological substrates of LSD1 in vivo are nucleosomes may also influence the activity of LSD1 as could other posttranslational modifications on histones. Regardless these findings provide important kinetic information that substantiates the idea that LSD1 is a histone demethylase.

Another crucial piece of information that supports the conclusion that LSD1 is a histone demethylase is our ability to identify the demethylation reaction products i.e. formaldehyde and the unmodified histone H3 peptides. Thus we have accounted for the major reaction products during an amine oxidase mediated demethylation reaction. In this oxidation reaction the cofactor FAD is likely to be reduced to FADHand then reoxidized to FAD by oxygen with the generation of H2O2. It will be important in the future to determine the fate of formaldehyde and HO which could have potentially deleterious effects when present near promoters. Recently a significant number of metabolic enzymes and coenzymes have been found to play central roles in regulating gene transcription Shi 2004 . Further investigation of proteins such as LSD1 will provide insight into a possible direct link between metabolism and transcription.

Our finding that LSD1 regulates H3 K4 methylation at its target promoters but not global K4 demethylation unpubl. result suggests that LSD1 is a locus specific histone demethylase. However since LSD1 has been identified in numerous repressor complexes Hakimi et al. 2002 Hakimi et al. 2003 Humphrey et al. 2001 Shi et al. 2003 Tong et al. 1998 You et al. 2001 we expect LSD1 much like the HDACs to play a widespread and a central role in establishing repressive chromatin environment as a histone demethylase. We have previously shown that the CtBP repressor complex contains a number of potential enzymatic activities including HDACs and HMTases that function coordinately to induce H3 K9 methylation which is linked to transcriptional repression Shi et al. 2003 . We now show that another component of the CtBP complex i.e. LSD1 nPAO demethylates H3 K4 that is linked to active transcription. Taken together these findings suggest that the establishment of a repressive environment mediated by the CtBP complex is likely to involve not only the process that confers the repressive modifications HDACs and HMTases but also events that erase histone modifications LSD1 associated with active transcription. This level of complexity is consistent with the histone code hypothesis Jenuwein and Allis 2001 and is likely to represent a general principle underlying transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes. Lastly in addition to H3 K9 methylation H3 K4 hypomethylation has also been correlated with heterochromatin formation in Noma et al. 2001 . It would be interesting to determine whether LSD1 homologs play a role in heterochromatin silencing as well as in euchromatic gene repression.

As with any fundamental biological processes histone demethylation is expected to be conserved through evolution. In support of this hypothesis we have identified LSD1 orthologs and homologs throughout the eukaryotic kingdom ranging from to human . Curiously LSD1 like proteins appear to be absent in where histone methylation also plays an important role in chromatin structure and transcriptional regulation. Thus it is possible that may have evolved a different strategy to remove methyl groups from histones. Alternatively different types of enzymes yet to be identified may be involved in demethylating histones in . In this regard it is interesting to note that the genome as do all the other eukaryotic genomes has a large number of genes predicted to encode amine oxidases. It is possible that in addition to LSD1 family members amine oxidases with a different architecture may also function as histone demethylases in and other organisms. Importantly our findings documenting an amine oxidase functioning as a histone demethylase lays the foundation for investigation of other amine oxidases as candidates for histone demethylases. It will be exciting to determine if LSD1 related proteins and other types of oxidases function as histone demethylases with different substrate specificities to impact chromatin structure and gene transcription. Given our finding that histone demethylases exist it will also be exciting to explore other types of enzymes that are also predicted to convert methylated peptides such as histones to unmethylated products Chinenov 2002 .

Finally recent studies provided a potential important connection between methylation at H3 K4 and cancer. The trithorax group protein MLL which methylates H3 K4 is found to be frequently involved in chromosomal translocation in both acute lymphoid and myeloid leukemia Ayton and Cleary 2001 . Another H3 K4 histone methylase SMYD3 has been shown to be upregulated in colorectal and hepatocarcinoma cells Hamamoto et al. 2004 . Over production of SMYD3 increases cell proliferation dependent on the histone methylase activity consistent with the possibility that SMYD3 is a candidate oncogene Hamamoto et al. 2004 . These findings support the hypothesis that H3 K4 methylation regulation may play a crucial role in tumorigenesis. With the identification of LSD1 as a H3 K4 demethylase we are now poised to investigate if LSD1 or related histone demethylases play a role in cancer and if so whether the demethylase activity is essential for this regulation.

Peptides histones antibodies and chemical reagents. Synthetic histone peptides with specific modifications as well as antibodies Ab that recognize different histone modifications were purchased from either Upstate Group INC Lake Placid N.Y. UP or Abcam Ltd Cambridge UK Ab . They are diMeK4H3 1 21 aa UP12 460 diMeK9H3 1 21aa UP12 430 H3 1 21aa UP12 403 PanH3Ac 1 21aa UP12 402 anti diMeK4H3 Ab UP07 030 anti diMeK9H3 Ab UP05 768 anti panH3Ac UP06 599 anti monoMeK4H3 Ab UP07 436 anti H3 Ab UP06 755 anti diMeR2H3 Ab Ab8046 anti diMeR3H4 UP07 213 anti diMeK79H3 Ab UP07 366 anti diMeR17H3 UP07 214 anti diMeR26H3 UP07 215 and triMeK4H3 Ab1342 . Anti diMeK36H3 and Anti diMeK20H4 antibodies were gifts from Y. Zhang. Bulk histones were either purchased from Sigma catalog H9250 or isolated from HeLa cells according to the protocol provided by Upstate. Formaldehyde dehydrogenase EC1.2.1.46 purified from was purchased from Sigma F1879 . Purified recombinant yeast polyamine oxidase FMS1 was a kind gift from Dr. Rolf Sternglanz.

Protein expression and purification. Full length 1 851aa and C terminal deleted 1 427 aa human LSD1 cDNAs were cloned into N terminal 6 HIS tag bacterial expression vector pET15b. The plasmids were transformed into bacteria and expression of the recombinant proteins was induced by 0.2 mM IPTG at 37 C. for 6 hours. The HIS tagged proteins were purified by Ni NTA affinity column Qiagen Valencia Calif. . After washing the column the bound proteins were eluted from the column by 200 mM imidazole. The eluate was then extensively dialyzed in PBS with 3 times change at 4 C. The homogeneity and concentration of the protein were estimated on SDS PAGE by Commassie Blue staining using BSA as standard.

Demethylase assay. Bulk histones or histone peptides were incubated with purified HIS LSD1 or HIS LSD1 C in the histone demethylase activity HDM assay buffer 1 50 mM Tris pH8.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 0.5 BSA and 5 glycerol from 30 min up to 4 hours at 37 C. For a typical reaction the volume of the reaction is 100 l in which either 20 g of purified bulk histones or 3 g of modified histone peptides were used as substrates. Different amounts of HIS LSD1 ranging from 1 20 g were used in the reaction. The reaction mixture was analyzed by SDS PAGE Western blotting using methyl specific antibodies or by formaldehyde formation assay to examine the removal and conversion of the methyl group to formaldehyde or by mass spectrometry to identify the demethylated peptide.

MALDI Mass spectrometry Matrix assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectroscopy . 2 l of the 100 l demethylation reaction mixture was desalted by passing through a CZipTip Millipore . Prior to desalting the ZipTips were activated and equilibrated using 10 l of 50 acetonitrile 0.1 TFA 2 followed by 10 l of 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA 3 . The reaction mixture was then loaded onto the activated ZipTips. The ZipTips were washed with 10 l of 0.1 TFA 5 and the bound material was eluted from the ZipTip using 2 l of 70 acetonitrile containing 1 mg ml cyano 4 hydroxycinnamic acid MALDI matrix and 0.1 TFA. The eluates were spotted onto a circle of open MALDI target areas to allow solvent evaporation and peptide matrix co crystallization. The samples were analyzed by a MALDI TOF TOF mass spectrometer Ultraflex Bruker Daltonics Billerica Mass. at the PFPC core facility of Department of Pathology Harvard Medical School.

Formaldehyde Dehydrogenase FDH assay. Formaldehyde formation was continuously monitored by a coupled spectrophotometric assay Lizcano et al. 2000 using formaldehyde dehydrogenase FDH . HIS LSD1 was first incubated in buffer containing 50 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.2 2 mM NAD and 0.1 U FDH 100 l reaction volume at 37 C. for 5 min without substrates. The demethylation FDH coupled reaction was initiated by the addition of the substrates. The absorbance at 340 nm 6.22 mMcmfor NADH was measured at each time point in a 0.5 min interval using Beckman DU640 spectrophotometer. The OD 340 nm absorbance at the moment of the substrate addition was considered as 0 and this was used as the 0 min time point. Over a 10 min period a kinetic software program automatically recorded the absorbance at each time point. The data were analyzed using the Excel program. Standard curves were obtained using various concentrations of formaldehyde diluted from 37 formaldehyde solution Fisher . Kand Vvalues for the purified LSD1 catalyzing demethylation of the diMeK4H3 substrates were estimated using Lineweaver Burk transformation of the Michaelis Menten kinetic equation.

Electrospray Ionization liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ESI LC MS . Standard formaldehyde or formaldehyde FA produced in the demethylation reaction was converted to formaldemethone FDM by the addition of dimedone which has a strong absorbance at OD 254 nm and an increased mass suitable for MS detection. In a demethylation assay 10 g of enzyme and 15 g of diMeK4H3 peptide were used in a 100 demethylation reaction. To convert FA to FDM dimedone was added to the demethylation reaction 500 l final volume with final concentration 0.0125 . For detection of FDM samples were subjected to a reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC system Agilent 1100 equipped with an analytical column Waters Symmetry C18 2.1 50 mm at a flow rate of 0.4 ml min. The HPLC system was directly coupled to a LCT mass spectrometer MS Waters Micromass . Analysis was performed in positive ion electrospray ESI mode with acquisition across a mass range of 100 to 1000 daltons. The FDM were identified by the presence of a unique ion having a mass to charge ratio of 293.2 corresponding to the calculated molecular mass with the addition of a single proton M H .

RT PCR. Total RNA samples were isolated from 2 10cells by Trizol reagent Sigma . After DNase treatment the RNA samples were purified by phenol chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. 38 PCR cycles were used for SCN1A SCN2A SCN3A and M4 AchR and 28 PCR cycles for GAPDH. Primers used in RT PCR were as follows SCN1A up 5 gcgaaatagcagaacaagcc 3 SEQ ID NO 1 down 5 ctcattgctcgttgcctttg 3 SEQ ID NO 2 SCN2A up 5 gatgaggatgatgaaaatggc 3 SEQ ID NO 3 down 5 ctaattttctaatagggttgaaggg 3 SEQ ID NO 4 SCN3A up 5 caccacttcctactttaatggca 3 SEQ ID NO 5 down 5 aaatagagacaggaaagcccag 3 SEQ ID NO 6 p57up 5 ggcgatcaagaagctgtcc 3 SEQ ID NO 7 down 5 caccttgggaccagtgtacc 3 SEQ ID NO 8 GAPDH up 5 gaaggtgaaggtcggagtc 3 SEQ ID NO 9 down 5 gaagatggtgatgggatttc 3 SEQ ID NO 10 .

Chromatin Immunoprecipitation ChIP analysis. ChIP assays were carried out in IP buffer without SDS due to the sensitivity of the LSD1 antibody to SDS. Briefly 3 10cells were used per LSD1 ChIP and 3 10cells per H3K4diMe ChIP. After 10 min 0.75 formaldehyde treatment cells were harvested and sonicated in the ChIP lysis buffer 1 Triton X 100 10 mM EDTA 50 mM Tris HCl and protease inhibitors to produce soluble chromatin with average sizes between 300 1000 bp. The chromatin samples were then diluted 10 fold in the dilution buffer 5 mM EDTA 25 mM Tris HCl 167 mM NaCl and cocktails of protease inhibitors and pre cleaned for 1 hour using salmon sperm DNA protein A agarose beads. 10 g of rabbit anti LSD1 3 l of anti H3K4diMe or control antibodies were then added to each sample and incubated overnight at 4 C. To collect the immunocomplex 40 l of salmon sperm DNA protein A agarose beads were added to the samples for 1 hr at 4 C. The beads were washed 3 in the wash buffer 1 0.1 Triton X 100 5 mM EDTA 30 mM Tris HCl 150 mM NaCl and 1 in wash buffer 2 1 Triton X 100 5 mM EDTA 30 mM Tris HCl 300 mM NaCl . The bound protein DNA immunocomplexes were eluted with 100 l elution buffer 1 SDS 0.1 M NaHCO3 250 mM NaCl and 0.2 Protease K and de crosslinked at 65 C. for 4 hrs. The de crosslinked chromatin DNA was further purified by QIAquick PCR Purification Kit Qiagen and eluted in 100 l TE buffer. 4 l of eluted DNA sample was used for each PCR reaction. 36 PCR cycles were used for LSD1 ChIP and 32 PCR cycles for H3K4diMe ChIP. Primers used for amplifications were as follows M4 AchR forward 5 gaacagaacacctccctcca 3 SEQ ID NO 11 reverse 5 gagtcagaaggcaggacagg 3 SEQ ID NO 12 SCN1A forward 5 taaagcccagtcaagacagc 3 SEQ ID NO 13 reverse 5 gacacacccagaagatggag 3 SEQ ID NO 14 SCN2A forward 5 cgtgtttcaaggctacagca 3 SEQ ID NO 15 reverse 5 ctctagcctcccaaccttcc 3 SEQ ID NO 16 SCN3A forward 5 ctctgtcacagggaggaaag 3 SEQ ID NO 17 reverse 5 agactagagcaggccacaag 3 SEQ ID NO 18 p57forward 5 ccgtggtgttgttgaaactg 3 SEQ ID NO 19 reverse 5 tgtccggtggtggactatc 3 SEQ ID NO 20 GAPDH forward 5 tcctcctgtttcatccaagc 3 SEQ ID NO 21 reverse 5 tagtagccgggccctacttt 3 SEQ ID NO 22 .

Sequence of KIAA0601 is SEQ ID NO 23. The nucleotide sequence encoding KIAA0601 is SEQ ID NO 24. The sequence of Histone H3 is SEQ ID NO 25. The sequence of AOF1 protein is SEQ ID NO 26 and the sequence of AOF1 coding sequence is SEQ ID NO 27 

Ahmad et al. 2002 Mol Cell 9 1191 1200 Allis et al. 1980 Cell 20 55 64 Aravind et al. 2002 Genome Biol 3 Ayton et al. 2001 Oncogene 20 5695 5707 Ballas et al. 2001 Neuron 31 353 365 Bannister et al. 2002 Cell 109 801 806 Bannister et al. 2001 Nature 410 120 124 Bauer et al. 2002 EMBO Rep 3 39 44 Binda et al. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 23973 23976 Borra et al. 2004 Biochemistry 43 9877 9887 Briggs et al. 2001 Genes Dev 15 3286 3295 Cao et al. 2002 Science 298 1039 1043 Chen 1999 Science 284 2174 2177 Chinenov 2002 Trends Biochem Sci 27 115 117 Cuthbert et al. 2004 Cell 118 545 553 Eimer et al. 2003 EMBO Jo 21 5787 5796 Fang et al. 2002 Curr Biol 12 1086 1099 Feng et al. 2002 Curr Biol 12 1052 1058 Hakimi et al. 2002 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 7420 7425 Hakimi et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 7234 7239 Hamamoto et al. 2004 Nat Cell Biol 6 731 740 Humphrey et al. 2001 J Biol Chem 276 6817 6824 Jarriault et al. 2002 Genes Dev 16 2713 2728 Jenuwein et al. 2001 Science 293 1074 1080 Johnson et al. 2004 Nat Immunol 5 853 861 Joseph et al. 2003 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100 15619 15624 Kim et al. 1964 J Biol Chem 239 3790 3796 Kouzarides T. 2000 EMBO Jo 19 1176 1179 Krogan et al. 2003 Mol Cell 11 721 729 Kuzmichev et al. 2002 Genes Dev 16 2893 2905 Lachner et al. 2001 Nature 410 116 120 Landry et al. 2003 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 303 771 776 Lee et al. 1995 Genes Dev 9 639 649 Liang et al. 2004 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 7357 7362 Litt et al. 2001 Science 293 2453 2455 Lizcano et al. 2000 Anal Biochem 286 75 79 Lunyak et al. 2002 Science 298 1747 1752 Muller et al. 2002 Cell 111 197 208 Nakayama et al. 2001 Science 292 110 113 Ng et al. 2003a Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100 1820 1825 Ng et al. 2003b Mol Cell 11 709 719 Nielsen et al. 2001 Nature 412 561 565 Nishioka et al. 2002 Mol Cell 9 1201 1213 Noma et al. 2001 Science 293 1150 1155 Paik et al. 1973 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 51 781 788 Paik et al. 1974 Arch Biochem Biophys 165 369 378 Peters et al. 2002 Nat Genet 30 77 80 Rea et al. 2000 Nature 406 593 599 Rice et al. 2001 Curr Opin Cell Biol 13 263 273 Roth et al. 2001 Annu Rev Biochem 70 81 120 Rozylo et al. 2000 Biomed Chromatogr 14 173 179 Santos Rosa et al. 2002 Nature 419 407 411 Schaft et al. 2003 Nucleic Acids Res 31 2475 2482 Schneider et al. 2004 Nat Cell Biol 6 73 77 Schurter et al. 2001 Biochemistry 40 5747 5756 Shi et al. 2004 Trends Genet 20 445 452 Shi et al. 2003 Nature 422 735 738 Strahl et al. 2001 Curr Biol 11 996 1000 Sui et al. 2002 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 5515 5520 Tong et al. 1998 Nature 395 917 921 Wang et al. 2004 Science You et al. 2001 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 1454 1458 and Zhang et al. 2001 Genes Dev 15 2343 2360.

LSD1 is a recently identified human lysine K specific histone demethylase. LSD1 is associated with HDAC1 2 CoREST a SANT domain containing co repressor and BHC80 a PHD domain containing protein among others. We show that CoREST endows LSD1 with the ability to demethylate nucleosomal substrates and protects LSD1 from proteasomal degradation in vivo. We find hyperacetylated nucleosomes less susceptible to CoREST LSD1 mediated demethylation suggesting that hypoacetylated nucleosomes may be the preferred physiological substrates. This raises the possibility that histone deacetylases and LSD1 may collaborate to generate a repressive chromatin environment. Consistent with this model TSA treatment results in de repression of LSD1 target genes. While HDAC1 2 and CoREST positively regulate LSD1 function BHC80 inhibits CoREST LSD1 mediated demethylation in vitro and may therefore confer negative regulation. Taken together these findings suggest that LSD1 mediated histone demethylation is regulated dynamically in vivo and this is expected to have profound effects on gene expression under both physiological and pathological conditions. The text and figures corresponding to this example may be found in Shi et al. Mol. Cell 2005 19 1 which is specifically incorporated by reference herein.

The N terminal tails of histones are subjected to multiple posttranslational modifications including methylation which occurs on both lysine K and arginine R residues. Methylation on histone H3 K9 plays an important role in heterochromatin formation Nakayama et al. 2001 Peters et al. 2002 Rea et al. 2000 as well as in euchromatin gene repression Shi et al. 2003 Zhang and Reinberg 2001 . In contrast methylation on the R and some K residues such as H3 K4 is associated with active transcription Kouzarides 2002 . Thus methylation represents a critical posttranslational modification of histones that impacts chromatin structure and gene transcription regulation Bannister et al. 2002 Lachner and Jenuwein 2002 Zhang and Reinberg 2001 .

Unlike other modifications that take place on histones such as acetylation and phosphorylation methylation has long been thought to be a permanent modification. Challenging this current dogma the recent discovery of the lysine specific histone demethylase LSD1 strongly suggests that histone methylation can be regulated dynamically via both histone methylases and demethylases Shi et al. 2004 . LSD1 alias KIAA0601 p110b npao and BHC110 is an amine oxidase which mediates histone demethylation via an FAD dependent oxidative reaction Shi et al. 2004 and has been identified in a number of co repressor complexes including CoREST CtBP and a subset of HDAC complexes Ballas et al. 2001 Hakimi et al. 2002 Hakimi et al. 2003 Humphrey et al. 2001 Shi et al. 2003 You et al. 2001 . Consistent with these findings LSD1 has been shown to function as a transcriptional co repressor by demethylating K4 of histone H3 Shi et al. 2004 where methylation is linked to active transcription Liang et al. 2004 Litt et al. 2001 Noma et al. 2001 Santo Rosa et al. 2002 Schneider et al. 2004 . Interestingly LSD1 has also been found in a histone H3 K4 specific methylase supercomplex Nakamura et al. 2002 suggesting that LSD1 demethylation activity may be regulated in vivo. However it has remained unclear if when and how LSD1 is regulated.

In this report we address the issue of LSD1 regulation. We provide evidence that multiple factors associated with LSD1 regulate LSD1 histone demethylase function. Our findings suggest that LSD1 mediated histone demethylation is a step wise highly coordinated process that involves multiple LSD1 associated positive and negative regulatory factors including HDACs CoREST and BHC80. These findings further suggest that LSD1 mediated histone demethylation is regulated dynamically in vivo and this is expected to have profound effects on gene expression under both physiological and pathological conditions.

CoREST endows recombinant LSD1 with the ability to demethylate nucleosomal substrates. As described previously bacterially purified LSD1 can demethylate mono or dimethylated lysine 4 of histone H3 H3 K4 when the substrate is either a histone peptide or free histone Shi et al. 2004 . In contrast recombinant LSD1 was unable to demethylate nucleosomal substrates. Significantly LSD1 purified from HeLa cells using the tandem affinity tag purification approach demethylated histones regardless of whether the substrates were bulk histones or histones assembled into the nucleosome. Mass spectrometry and Western blotting analysis identified a putative LSD1 complex LSD1.com containing HDAC1 2 CtBP1 CoREST BHC80 and BRAF35 among others and is essentially identical to the BHC110 complex reported previously Hakimi et al. 2003 . A difference is the presence of CtBP and absence of TFII I in the LSD1 purification compared with the previously reported BHC110 complex but the reason for this discrepancy is currently unclear. The finding above suggested that either posttranslational modifications and or factors present in the LSD1 complex contribute to the capability of LSD1 to modify a more complex substrate. To address this issue we first asked whether factors in the LSD1 complex conferred upon LSD1 the ability to demethylate nucleosomal substrates. We investigated whether two LSD1 direct interacting proteins CoREST and BHC80 played a role Iwase et al. 2004 Jarriault and Greenwald 2002 Shi lab unpubl. result . While the addition of bacterially purified HDAC1 and BHC80 had no effect addition of CoREST to the demethylation reaction restored the ability of recombinant LSD1 to demethylate nucleosomal substrates. In contrast CoREST has little stimulatory effect on the LSD1 demethylase activity when assayed on free histones using purified CoREST ranging from 0.3 to 5 g.

CoREST contains two SANT domains SANT1 and SANT2 which is a conserved protein motif found in a number of chromatin associated proteins Boyer et al. 2004 de la Cruz et al. 2005 . The SANT domain in the co repressor SMRT protein has been shown to preferentially interact with hypoacetylated histone tails Yu et al. 2003 . We speculated that the SANT domain s in CoREST might function similarly thus making CoREST a candidate protein that may bridge the nucleosomal substrates and the demethylase LSD1. Consistent with this model we found hyperacetylated nucleosomes isolated from HeLa cells treated with the HDAC inhibitor TSA less susceptible to CoREST LSD1 mediated demethylation approximately 4 fold difference in demethylation comparing untreated with TSA treated nucleosomes . This suggests that the HDACs in the LSD1 complex are likely to function upstream of CoREST LSD1 generating a hypoacetylated histone substrate which can then be better recognized by CoREST LSD1. Further supporting this model we found that inhibition of HDAC activity by TSA resulted in de repression of two LSD1 target genes the human neuronal specific sodium channel SCN genes SCNA2 and SCNA3. It should be noted that SCN2A expression was previously shown to be unaffected by TSA treatment in the Rat 1 fibroblast cells suggesting possible species specific regulation of LSD1 target genes Lunyak et al. 2002 . Regardless our results suggest that HDACs play an important role in LSD1 mediated repression in vivo and that HDACs may collaborate with LSD1 CoREST in HeLa cells to repress some of the REST target genes.

We next analyzed a series of N and C terminal CoREST deletion mutants in order to identify regions of CoREST that are important for stimulating the LSD1 demethylase activity. We found that deletion of the C terminal region aa 293 to 482 of CoREST had the most significant effect i.e. it abrogated about 70 of the stimulatory function of CoREST. Importantly the same C terminal region is also sufficient to mediate stimulation of LSD1 demethylation activity to a level that is comparable to that of the wildtype CoREST while the N terminal CoREST aa 1 293 had a weaker stimulatory activity 30 of the wildtype CoREST activity . Taken together these findings show that majority of the stimulatory activity of CoREST can be attributed to the C terminal region of CoREST.

To identify domains of CoREST that are involved in physical interactions with LSD1 GST LSD1 or GST was incubated with bacterially purified HIS tagged CoREST and its mutant derivatives. After extensive washing the bound and the follow through fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and Coomassie Blue staining As predicted the C terminal domain of CoREST del 2 aa 293 482 which was sufficient to stimulate LSD1 activity was also capable of binding LSD1. In addition to del2 del 3 aa 105 381 and del 5 aa 293 381 bound LSD1 but del 1 aa 1 293 and del 4 aa 105 293 did not under the same assay conditions. This places the putative LSD1 binding domain within the C terminal functional domain of CoREST somewhere between aa 293 381 of CoREST. Interestingly among the mutants that can bind LSD1 del2 del3 del5 only del 2 stimulated LSD1 demethylation indicating that physical interaction with LSD1 alone is not sufficient. A conspicuous difference between del2 and the mutants that bind LSD1 but fail to stimulate its activity is the SANT2 domain which is present in del2 but not in del3 and del5 . We therefore speculate that the SANT2 domain may be involved in mediate binding to the nucleosomal substrate. Taken together these findings are consistent with the idea that CoREST functions as a bridging protein. The weak stimulatory activity of the N terminal CoREST del1 aa 1 293 remains unclear at the present time. Although we did not detect LSD1 binding to this region of CoREST a low level of LSD1 binding activity can t be excluded. Interestingly this region of CoREST also contains a SANT domain SANT1 which as discussed has the potential to bind histone tails.

Previous studies identified spr 5 and spr 1 as homologs of LSD1 and CoREST respectively Eimer et al. 2002 Jarriault and Greenwald 2002 . Mutations in either spr 5 or spr 1 suppress a presenilin mutation suggesting that wildtype spr 5 and spr 1 normally function to repress Notch downstream target genes. The two mutations in spr 1 are nonsense mutations that are predicted to generate truncated spr 1 protein lacking the C terminal region covering the area that corresponds to aa 340 to 482 of mammalian CoREST. Significantly this is the same region we have shown to be important for stimulating LSD1 activity. Thus both the genetic and biochemical data argued for a critical requirement of the C terminal region of CoREST for stimulation of LSD1 activity.

CoREST regulates LSD1 stability in vivo. Having demonstrated that CoREST is crucial for LSD1 to mediate demethylation of nucleosomal substrates in vitro we next wished to investigate the effect of loss of CoREST on LSD1 mediated transcription in vivo. We first inhibited CoREST expression by RNAi and unexpectedly found that a reduction of CoREST also led to a reduction of LSD1 expression Immunostaining of cells transfected with a CoREST shRNA plasmid showed that there was not only a significant reduction of CoREST but also LSD1 in 80 of the CoREST shRNA transfected cells as compared to control shRNA treated cells. This co regulation was also observed when the transfected cells were analyzed by Western blotting. We found that the reduction of LSD1 protein expression was not at the RNA level since the LSD1 mRNA level remained the same in the presence or absence of the CoREST shRNA. Consistently we found that the proteasome inhibitor ZL3VS Kadlcikova et al. 2004 restored the LSD1 steady state level in CoREST shRNA treated cells close to that of the wildtype cells. Taken together these findings show that when CoREST is absent or significantly reduced LSD1 becomes prone to proteasomal degradation suggesting that CoREST is required for LSD1 stability in vivo. These observations further suggest that there may be yet to be identified mechanisms in place that regulate CoREST expression and or CoREST LSD1 interaction which consequently impact LSD1 mediated H3 K4 demethylation and transcriptional repression. To begin to test this hypothesis we determined H3 K4 methylation and LSD1 target gene transcription in cells where CoREST level was reduced by RNAi. CoREST shRNA resulted in de repression of SCN2A and SCN3A which have previously been shown to be LSD1 target genes Shi et al. 2004 . Importantly we also observed a significant increase of H3 K4 dimethylation and a concomitant decrease of LSD1 at the target promoters by chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP . The reduced LSD1 promoter occupancy is likely to be due to a reduction of the LSD1 protein level in the CoREST shRNA cells.

BHC80 inhibits LSD1 demethylase activity in vitro. In addition to CoREST the other protein in the LSD1 complex that can directly interact with LSD1 and therefore may influence LSD1 activity is BHC80 Hakimi et al. 2002 Iwase et al. 2004 . As discussed earlier BHC80 did not stimulate or inhibit LSD1 activity when it alone was assayed on nucleosomal substrates under which condition LSD1 was largely inactive. We therefore asked whether BHC80 might exhibit any activity towards LSD1 when LSD1 is actively demethylating histones. While recombinant LSD1 efficiently demethylated H3 K4 on free histones the addition of recombinant BHC80 significantly dampened this activity. BHC80 remained inhibitory regardless of whether CoREST was present or not in the free histone assays. We next asked whether BHC80 may display the same activity towards the active demethylase unit LSD1 CoREST on nucleosomal substrates. Similarly while BHC80 had no effect on the inactive LSD1 LSD1 alone assayed on nucleosomal substrate increasing amounts of BHC80 caused a proportional decrease in the demethylase activity of LSD1 CoREST assayed on nucleosomal substrates. Thus in contrast to HDAC1 2 and CoREST which are positive regulators of LSD1 activity the in vitro evidence presented above suggests that BHC80 may function to inhibit LSD1 activity.

In summary we provided evidence in this study that LSD1 mediated histone demethylation is regulated by multiple factors associated with LSD1. CoREST protects LSD1 from proteasomal degradation and also plays an indispensable role for LSD1 to demethylate nucleosomal substrate in vitro. This predicts a critical role for CoREST in LSD1 function in vivo which is supported by the ChIP data demonstrating that a reduction in the CoREST level significantly affects H3 K4 methylation at the LSD1 target promoters and their repression. HDACs on the other hand are implicated in the generation of hypoacetylated nucleosomes which we show are more susceptible to CoREST LSD1 mediated histone demethylation. Based on these findings we speculate that HDACs and LSD1 functionally interact to generate a repressive chromatin environment. Specifically we suggest that the process of LSD1 mediated H3 K4 demethylation is preceeded by HDACs which cause histone hypoacetylation. The hypoacetylated histone H3 is preferentially recognized by CoREST which bridges LSD1 to the nucleosomal substrates. Supporting this model inhibition of HDAC activity by TSA caused de repression of the LSD1 target genes SCNA2 and SCNA3. Lastly although the in vivo function of the third component of the LSD1 complex BHC80 is less clear the fact that it inhibits LSD1 mediated histone demethylation in vitro suggests a possible negative regulatory mechanism that may provide negative feedback regulation and or to limit LSD1 activity at the promoter.

The requirement for multiple factors in LSD1 mediated histone demethylation suggests possible dynamic regulation in vivo and predicts that signaling pathways or factors that can modulate LSD1 interactions with other proteins in the LSD1 complex such as CoREST and BHC80 may have profound effects on LSD1 activity in vivo. Importantly this study has begun to shed light on the individual functions of the factors that are associated with LSD1 and lays the foundation for future exploration of signaling events that modulate these important interactions.

Chemicals antibodies and other reagents. Proteasome inhibitor ZL3VS was a kind gift from Dr. Hidde Ploegh s Lab Harvard Medical School Dept. of Pathology . Histone deacetylase inhibitor Trichostatin A TSA was purchased from Sigma. Antibodies Ab that recognize different histone modifications namely anti diMeK4H3 Ab UP07 030 anti diMeK9H3 Ab UP05 768 anti panH3Ac Ab UP06 599 were purchased from Upstate Group INC Lake Placid N.Y. UP . Anti diMeK20H4 antibodies were gifts from Yi Zhang. Bulk histones were purchased from Sigma.

Preparation of mononucleosome. Mononucleosome was made according to a standard protocol Tagami et al. 2004 Utley et al. 1996 . Briefly nuclear pellet from both TSA treated or non treated HeLa cells was homogenized for 60 times with type A pestle to obtain oligo nucleosomes. The oligo nucleosomes were then digested with micrococcal nuclease 40 units mL for 10 mins at 30 C. The nuclease is inactivated by 5 mM EDTA. Digested materials were spun at 14000 rpm for 3 mins. Resulting supernatant was spun again for additional 3 mins at the same speed. Supernatant from the second spin was subject to 10 25 glycerol gradient sedimentation. The monocleosome containing fractions were identified by examining aliquots of fractions treated with proteinase K on DNA agarose gel. An aliquot of TSA treated or non TSA treated mononucleosome a kind gift from Dr. Yoshihiro Nakatani s Lab in Dana Faber Cancer Institute Harvard Medical School Tagami et al. 2004 was used here as a control for the quality of mononucleosome made in our lab.

Recombinant protein expression purification and GST pulldown assay. His tagged full length 1 482aa and deletion mutants of human CoREST were generated by PCR using pcDNA3.1 CoREST myc plasmid as a template A kind gift from Dr. Gail Mendal and cloned into N terminal 6 His tag SEQ ID NO 50 bacterial expression vector and verified by DNA sequencing. The plasmid constructs were transformed into bacteria and the expression of the recombinant proteins was induced by 0.2 mM IPTG at 37 C. for 4 hours. His tagged proteins were purified by Ni NTA affinity column Qiagen Valencia Calif. . After washing the column the bound proteins were eluted from the column by 200 mM imidazole. The eluate was then extensively dialyzed in PBS for 3 times at 4 C. The homogeneity and concentration of the protein were estimated on SDS PAGE gel followed by Coomassie Blue staining using BSA as standard. The primers used to generate CoREST wt and del mutants are as follows 

GST and GSTLSD1 plamsids were kind gifts from Dr. Tadashi Baba s Lab in Japan Iwase et al. 2004 . Expression and purification of GST and GSTLSD1 proteins were done using similar procedure as outlined for purification of his tagged recombinant proteins. For GST bead pulldown experiment 2 g of each purified his tagged wt or del CoREST proteins were incubated with 5 g of bound GST and GSTLSD1 proteins at 4 C. for 4 hrs in a binding buffer 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 300 mM NaCl 1 mM DTT 0.5 mM EDTA and 0.1 NP 40 . The beads were washed 3 times in the binding buffer resuspended in 2 SDS protein sample buffer boiled for 5 mins and loaded onto 15 SDS PAGE gel. The gel was then stained with Coomassie Blue.

TAP protein complex isolation and identification. The detailed purification procedure has been described previously Ogawa et al. 2002 Shi et al. 2003 . In brief Flag HA tagged human LSD1 was constructed in a retroviral expressing vector. Viruses containing the expressing cassette was made and transduced into HeLa cells. The Flag HA LSD1 stable cell line then was established and propagated as suspension cells. Nuclear extract was made from 30 L of cells from which the LSD1 complex was purified by using anti Flag M2 mAb conjugated agarose beads Sigma followed by anti HA 12CA5 mAb conjugated agarose beads in buffer B 100 mM KCl 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 5 mM MgCl 10 glycerol 1 mM PMSF 0.1 Nonidet P40 10 mM 2 mercaptoethanol . The resulting LSD1 associated complex components were identified by MS MS mass spectrometry as described previously Shi et al. 2003 .

Demethylation assay. LSD1 demethylation activity on free histone or nucleosomal histone was carried out as previously reported Shi et al. 2004 . Briefly bulk histones or mononucleosomes were incubated with purified His LSD1 with or without purified His CoREST His CoREST mutants His BHC80 and or GST HDAC1 in the histone demethylase activity HDM assay buffer 50 mM Tris pH8.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 0.5 BSA and 5 glycerol from 10 mins up to 1 hour at 37 C. The demethylase activity of LSD1 under various conditions was evaluated by Western blotting using K4 H3 methylation specific antibodies.

Knockdown LSD CoREST and Proteasome inhibitor PI treatment. Stable cell lines which express mutant GFP shRNA CtBP shRNA LSD1 shRNA or CoREST shRNA were generated as previously described Shi et al. 2003 Sui et al. 2002 . To prevent proteasome mediated protein degradation the cells were treated with ZL3VS at final concentration 10 M for 24 hours in culture then harvested. The protein and mRNA levels of the shRNA knockdown cells with or without PI treatment were estimated by Western blotting and RT PCR as previously described Shi et al. 2004 .

Ballas et al. 2001 Neuron 31 353 365 Bannister et al. 2002 Cell 109 801 806 Boyer et al. 2004 Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 5 158 163 de la Cruz et al. 2005 Bioessays 27 164 175 Eimer et al. 2002 Embo J 21 5787 5796 Hakimi et al. 2002 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 7420 7425 Hakimi et al. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 7234 7239 Humphrey et al. 2001 J Biol Chem 276 6817 6824 Iwase et al. 2004 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 322 601 608 Jarriault et al. 2002 Genes Dev 16 2713 2728 Kadlcikova et al. 2004 Int J Exp Pathol 85 365 371 Kouzarides T. 2002 Curr Opin Genet Dev 12 198 209 Lachner et al. 2002 Curr Opin Cell Biol 14 286 298 Liang et al. 2004 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101 7357 7362 Litt et al. 2001 Science 293 2453 2455 Lunyak et al. 2002 Science 298 1747 1752 Nakamura et al. 2002 Mol Cell 10 1119 1128 Nakayama et al. 2001 Science 292 110 113 Noma et al. 2001 Science 293 1150 1155 Ogawa et al. 2002 Science 296 1132 1136 Peters et al. 2002 Nat Genet 30 77 80 Rea et al. 2000 Nature 406 593 599 Santos Rosa et al. 2002 Nature 419 407 411 Schneider et al. 2004 Nat Cell Biol 6 73 77 Shi et al. 2004 Cell 119 941 953 Shi et al. 2003 Nature 422 735 738 Sims et al. 2003 Trends Genet 19 629 639 Sui et al. 2002 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 99 5515 5520 Tagami et al. 2004 Cell 116 51 61 Utley et al. 1996 Methods Enzymol 274 276 291 You et al. 2001 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 1454 1458 Yu et al. 2003 Embo J 22 3403 3410 and Zhang et al. 2001 Genes Dev 15 2343 2360.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

