---

title: Gaming notifications aggregator
abstract: A system and method for aggregating and consolidating game notifications is described. In one aspect, game related notifications of different types, from different game sessions, from different games, and from different gaming platforms are aggregated and further consolidated, according to a set of consolidation rules, into a single consolidated environment. The consolidated environment may be projected to and managed from a variety of different gaming devices including mobile devices, gaming and media consoles, and personal computers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805939&OS=08805939&RS=08805939
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08805939
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101103
---
The video game experience has evolved from one in which an isolated gaming experience was provided into one in which users on a variety of processing devices such as personal computers gaming consoles and mobile devices communicate with each other to share a common gaming experience. One example of an online gaming system that enables users to communicate with each other is Microsoft s Xbox 360 Live online game service. Using such online gaming systems users are provided with a gaming experience which may be shared between friends and other gamers located anywhere in the world.

Online gaming systems commonly provide notification to users of various gaming related activities via email website messages or in game messages. The various gaming related activities may include invitations to start a new game session turn notices nudges and game score notifications. Today online gaming systems display various notifications for the same and different games in separate lists causing a disjointed experience. For example each game on a mobile phone maintains its own notification list and therefore a game player must go to each game separately in order to view the respective game notification list. For some online gaming systems the number of game notifications may become large and cumbersome to manage especially if multiple games are involved.

Technology is described for aggregating and consolidating game notifications. In one embodiment the disclosed technology aggregates and consolidates game related notifications of different types from different games from different game sessions and from different gaming platforms into a consolidated environment. The consolidated environment may be projected to and managed from a variety of different gaming devices including mobile devices gaming and media consoles and personal computers. The consolidated environment provides game players with an efficient and convenient means for managing their game related notifications.

One example of a method for aggregating gaming notifications includes receiving gaming notifications from one or more gaming sessions aggregating the received gaming notifications into an aggregated set of gaming notifications consolidating the received gaming notifications and outputting at least a consolidated game notification. The step of outputting may include transmitting the at least a consolidated game notification to a mobile device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Technology is described for aggregating and consolidating game notifications. In one embodiment the disclosed technology aggregates and consolidates game related notifications of different types from different games from different game sessions and from different gaming platforms into a consolidated environment. The consolidated environment may be projected to and managed from a variety of different gaming devices including mobile devices gaming and media consoles and personal computers. The consolidated environment provides game players with an efficient and convenient means for managing their game related notifications.

The disclosed technology may be practiced using game notifications from a variety of different types of computer games including online versions of classical board games such as chess or checkers action games including first person shooting games action adventure games featuring long term obstacles as well as components of action games simulation type games based on construction or life simulation role playing games where a user is cast in a particular role in one or more adventures which may or may not utilize specific skill sets strategy games vehicle simulation games social games such as those found on Facebook and music games.

The disclosed technology may be practiced using single player games synchronous multiplayer games or asynchronous turn based multiplayer games. Asynchronous turn based games may be played asynchronously and do not require all players to be connected to a particular game session at the same time. Turn based games allow game players to play with others without having to dedicate long periods of continuous time to gameplay or having to coordinate times with multiple players to be online at the same time. Moreover turn based games allow games to be played in environments where maintaining a synchronous connection is difficult e.g. mobile devices in transit between a home environment and a work environment . For example turn based games allow a game player to begin a game at home on a desktop computer make game related moves on a handheld phone while in transmit from home to work and then to finish the game on a gaming console at a friend s house.

One embodiment of notification server includes network interface processor and memory . Network interface allows notification server to connect to one or more networks . Processor allows notification server to execute computer readable instructions stored in memory .

One embodiment of mobile device includes network interface processor and memory . Network interface allows mobile device to connect to one or more networks . Processor allows mobile device to execute computer readable instructions stored in memory .

In one embodiment of a networked computing environment game play is practiced without having to rely on a game server in order to maintain the state of a game session. Instead the game state itself may be communicated between one or more of the computing devices as a game related notification either directly or through notification server . In one example in a game of chess being played between users of mobile devices and the your turn game notification communicated from mobile device to mobile device may include incremental state change information sufficient to determine the current state of the chess game or the current state of the chess game itself.

In general a server may include a hardware device that acts as the host in a client server relationship or a software process that shares a resource with or performs work for one or more clients. Communication between computing devices in a client server relationship may be initiated by a client sending a request to the server asking for access to a particular resource or for particular work to be performed. The server may subsequently perform the actions requested and send a response back to the client. While mobile devices desktop computers and gaming consoles are not typically classified as servers under certain situations they may act as and be classified as servers.

In general a game session may involve game play from the beginning of a particular game to the last actions considered to be part of the particular game. A game session may run on one or more computing devices and involve one or more game players. Different game sessions of a particular game may run on a single computing device or on separate computing devices. For example a first game session of the game Scrabble may be played on a first computer concurrent with a different game session of the game Scrabble played on the first computer or a different computer.

In one embodiment of a networked computing environment mobile device communicates with game server and receives transmits game related data associated with a particular game session running on game server . When a game related notification is generated game server transmits the game related notification to notification server . Game related notifications may include an invitation to play a game a your turn notification a nudge notification to make the next move a gift notification a game achievement notification a game score notification a game state notification or a notification that a game is about to expire or be terminated due to inactivity. Game related notifications may be generated automatically by game server upon the request of a game player or by a game client running on a computing device.

In some embodiments notification server may process the game related notifications in order to generate an aggregated set of game related notifications. Further notification server may consolidate two or more game related notifications within the aggregated set of game related notifications to form a consolidated game notification. Subsequently via consolidation of game related notifications a smaller consolidated set of game related notifications may be generated. The aggregated and or consolidated set of game related notifications may then be transmitted to one or more of the computing devices within networked computing environment . Performing the processing steps necessary to generate the consolidated set of game related notifications on notification server may help improve battery lifetime for those computing devices that depend on a battery for power e.g. mobile devices . In addition storing the consolidated set of game related notifications on notification server allows a single consolidated view of the game related notifications to be viewed and or managed from one or more of the computing devices.

In one embodiment of a networked computing environment desktop computer communicates with game server and receives transmits game related data associated with a particular game running on game server . When a game related notification is generated game server stores the game related notification. Subsequently mobile device communicates with game server and game server transmits the game related notification to mobile device .

In another embodiment when a game related notification is generated game server transmits the game related notification to notification server . The notification server then generates a consolidated set of game related notifications and transmits the consolidated set of game related notifications to mobile device or other computing devices e.g. mobile device desktop computer or gaming console within the plurality of computing devices interconnected through one or more networks .

In another embodiment when a game related notification is generated game server transmits the game related notification to notification server . Once two or more game related notifications are received by notification server processor executes computer readable instructions stored in memory in order to generate an aggregated set of game related notifications. The aggregated set of game related notifications is then transmitted to mobile device . Once the aggregated set of game related notifications is received by mobile device processor executes computer readable instructions stored in memory in order to generate a consolidated set of game related notifications. In some embodiments the consolidated set of game related notifications may subsequently be transmitted to other computing devices e.g. desktop computer or gaming console within the plurality of computing devices interconnected through one or more networks .

In step the one or more first game notifications and the one or more second game notifications are aggregated into an aggregated set of game notifications. In one embodiment the process of aggregating game notifications is performed on notification server in . In another embodiment the step of aggregating game notifications is performed on mobile device in . The process of aggregating game notifications may be performed on game notifications of the same or different types and on game notifications from the same or different games game sessions platforms and or gaming systems. The aggregated game notifications may be stored in a memory such as memory or memory in as an aggregated list or other data structure suitable for storing data. The game notifications may also be aggregated and stored in a game notifications database running on one or more computing devices.

In step at least a first notification of the aggregated set of game notifications and at least a second notification of the aggregated set of game notifications are consolidated into a consolidated game notification. In one embodiment the consolidated game notification is included within a consolidated set of game notifications. In some embodiments the consolidated set of game notifications provides information for only a particular subset of the aggregated set of game notifications. For example the consolidated set of game notifications may comprise the three most recent invitations out of ten invitations or the five highest game scores out of fifty game scores for a particular game.

In step the consolidated game notification is outputted. In one embodiment the step of outputting includes displaying the consolidated game notification on the display of a mobile device. In another embodiment the step of outputting includes transmitting the consolidated game notification to a mobile device. In step one or more actions are generated based on a first response to the consolidated game notification the one or more actions are responsive to the first notification of the aggregated set of game notifications and the second notification of the aggregated set of game notifications.

In one embodiment of a consolidation rule the consolidation rule consolidates game notifications associated with at least one particular game notification category or field. Game notification categories may include the notification type e.g. an invitation or nudge the person or entity associated with generating the game notification a particular game a particular game session the time elapsed since generation of the game notification or the time remaining until the game notification expires or causes a game level event to occur e.g. a forced move or a forfeiture of a turn . In one embodiment a consolidation rule consolidates nudges and your turn notifications associated with a particular game session. In another embodiment all game notifications requesting an action be performed by a particular person are consolidated. In another embodiment all game invitations to begin a particular game e.g. Scrabble are consolidated into a single game notification representing the most recent invitation to play.

In step an order of application for each rule of the one or more consolidation rules is determined. For example a consolidation rule for consolidating all game notifications associated with a particular player identifier may be applied prior to another consolidation rule for consolidating all invitations to play a particular game.

In step a determination is made as to whether or not each rule of the one or more consolidation rules has been applied. If not all of the one or more consolidation rules have been applied then steps and are processed. If all of the one or more consolidation rules have been applied then step is processed.

In step at least one rule of the one or more consolidation rules is applied to at least a subset of the aggregated set of game notifications in the order determined in step . In one embodiment both the one or more consolidation rules and the aggregated set of game notifications are stored in databases. For each consolidation rule the database storing the aggregated set of game notifications is searched and game notifications meeting specific search criteria are returned. The returned game notifications are then consolidated in accordance with the consolidation rule being applied. In another embodiment both the set of consolidation rules and the aggregated set of game notifications are stored in separate lists. For each consolidation rule the list storing the aggregated set of game notifications is searched and game notifications meeting specific search criteria are returned. The returned game notifications are then consolidated in accordance with the consolidation rule being applied. In another

In step a consolidated game notification is generated based on step . In step the one or more consolidated game notifications are outputted. In one embodiment after each rule of the one or more consolidation rules has been applied a consolidated set of game notifications is generated containing the one or more consolidated game notifications.

In one embodiment a game player customizes at least one consolidation rule of the one or more consolidation rules. Customization of the consolidation rules may include specifying which consolidation rules to apply and in what order the consolidation rules should be applied. The game player customization may occur and or be stored on a mobile device used by the game player such as mobile device in or on a notification server such as notification server in . In another embodiment a system administrator of notification server in customizes a first consolidation rule of the one or more consolidation rules.

In one embodiment of a process for generating one or more consolidated game notifications at least two game notifications generated by a single player or instanced game are consolidated if the at least two game notifications are associated with the same game achievement. For example a first game achievement notification that the game player is only 14 bunnies away from the Were Rabbit achievement may be consolidated with a second and more recent game achievement notification that the game player is only 10 bunnies away from the Were Rabbit achievement. In another example a first game achievement notification that Your friend just got 5 cherries in Wonderland slots may be consolidated with a second and more recent game notification that Your friend just got 7 cherries in Wonderland slots. 

Game notification comprises a nudge notification. Game notification comprises a your turn notification. Nudge notifications and your turn notifications may be sent as reminders to a player that their turn is due or that a particular action is requested. Both nudge and your turn notifications may be automatically generated when a player has not made a move within a given period of time or manually generated by other game players who are waiting on the player s turn. In one embodiment multiple nudge notifications for the same game session are collapsed into a single nudge notification. In one example game notification may be a consolidated game notification comprising the most recent nudge notification out of a plurality of nudge notifications received by notification server in .

Game notifications and comprise invitation notifications. Upon acceptance of an invitation notification to play a particular game a new game session of the particular game will be created. In one embodiment a set of more than two invitation notifications are consolidated into a consolidated set of invitation notifications. In one example game notifications and may comprise the two most recent invitation notifications out of ten invitation notifications received by notification server in .

Game notification comprises a game message notification. In one embodiment multiple game messages for the same game session are collapsed into a single game message. In one example game notification may be a consolidated game notification comprising the most recent game message for a particular game of Scrabble out of a plurality of game messages received by notification server in .

In one embodiment of a process for consolidating game notifications a first game notification and a second game notification are consolidated if both the first game notification and the second game notification are associated with the same player or player identifier. A particular game player may be associated with one or more player identifiers. For example game player Cathy Wilcox may be associated with player identifiers mizcatdragon and C Wilcox. In one example game notifications and comprise the two most recent game notifications out of three sent from game player Sally Gamer. In another example only the most recent game notification out of a plurality of game notifications generated by a particular game player may be transmitted from notification server in .

In another embodiment of a process for consolidating game notifications a first game notification and a second game notification are consolidated if both the first game notification and the second game notification are of the same type and are associated with the same game session. In a particular game session there may be multiple players sending notifications of a particular type. For example in a game of Scrabble three different game players associated with different player identifiers may all send nudge notifications to one particular player. In this case all the nudge notifications may be consolidated into a single nudge notification and transmitted to the one particular player. In one example game notification is a consolidated game notification based on three different nudge notifications sent from three different players participating in a Scrabble game session. In this case game notification is a single notification comprising the most recent nudge notification.

In another embodiment a first game notification and a second game notification are consolidated if both the first game notification and the second game notification are of the same type associated with the same game session and associated with the same player identifier. For example in a game of Scrabble three different game players associated with different player identifiers may all send nudge notifications to one particular player. In this case all the nudge notifications associated with a particular player identifier may be consolidated into a single nudge notification and therefore three different consolidated nudge notifications a single nudge notification associated with each of the three player identifiers may be received by the one particular player.

In one embodiment of a process for consolidating game notifications a set of two or more nudges and your turn notifications are consolidated into a consolidated set of action requested game notifications. In one example game notifications and may comprise the two most recent notifications out of eight nudges and ten your turn notifications.

In one embodiment a first game notification and a second game notification are consolidated if they are both system notifications warning of expiration of a particular game session. The consolidated game notification may include the total number of pending system notifications. System notifications may include notification that a particular game session is about to expire or that a particular game level event e.g. a forced move or a forfeiture of a turn will occur unless a particular game player takes an action in a particular game session. In one example game notification comprises the highest priority system notification out of seven system notifications the highest priority system notification being the system notification with the least time remaining until expiration of a particular game.

In another embodiment a first game notification and a second game notification are consolidated if they are both gift notifications associated with a particular game and associated with a particular game player. The consolidated gift notification may include information regarding the gifts associated with both the first game notification and the second game notification. In one example game notification comprises a consolidated gift notification based on three individual Farmville gift notifications. The three individual Farmville gift notifications included one gift notification for four pigs one gift notification for two cows and one gift notification for two baby elephants. In one embodiment the consolidated gift notification may be accepted or not accepted causing all three individual gift notifications to be accepted or not accepted . In another embodiment the consolidated gift notification may be flattened causing the consolidated gift notification to be deleted and replaced by the three individual gift notifications.

In one embodiment of a process for consolidating game notifications a first consolidation rule is applied prior to a second consolidation rule. In one example a first consolidation rule for consolidating game notifications associated with a particular player identifier is applied prior to a second consolidation rule for consolidating invitation notifications into the two most recent invitation notifications. In game notifications and are the two most recent invitation notifications. However because the first consolidation rule is applied prior to the second consolidation rule game notification is not consolidated into the consolidated set of invitation notifications.

In step a first response to a consolidated game notification is received. In one embodiment notification server in receives the first response. In step one or more actions are generated based on the first response and the consolidated game notification. In one embodiment notification server in receives the first response and generates the number of actions required to satisfy the first response to the consolidated game notification. In this case the number of one or more actions may depend on whether a particular game application programming interface API can handle a consolidated response to individual game notifications or requires individual responses for each game notification. In step a first action of the one or more actions is outputted in response to a first notification that was previously consolidated into the consolidated gaming notification. In step a second action of the one or more actions is outputted in response to a second notification that was previously consolidated into the consolidated gaming notification. For example the first notification may be a first gift notification for a baby elephant in the game Farmville and the second notification may be a second gift notification for two cows in the game Farmville . In this case the first action may respond to the first notification by accepting the baby elephant and the second action may respond to the second notification by accepting the two cows. In one embodiment all gifts associated with a consolidated gaming notification are accepted. In another embodiment all gifts associated with a consolidated game notification are declined.

The disclosed technology may be used in various gaming systems. provide examples of various gaming systems that can be used to implement embodiments of the disclosed technology.

As depicted in console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display such as monitor via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet. The broadband capabilities can also be provided wirelessly through a broadband network such as a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers and are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. For example in controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad and buttons and controller is equipped with thumbstick and triggers . These controllers are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

In one implementation a memory unit MU may be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters for use when playing on other consoles. In one embodiment each controller is configured to accommodate two Mus although more or less than two MUs may also be employed. In another embodiment a Universal Serial Bus USB flash memory storage may also be inserted into controller to provide additional and portable storage.

Gaming and media system is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from an optical disk media e.g. from an online source or from MU .

During operation console is configured to receive input from controllers and and display information on display . For example console can display a user interface on display to allow a user to perform the operations of the disclosed technology discussed herein.

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The one or more buses might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and portable media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types may also be applied in the alternative.

A three dimensional graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in console includes a controller support subassembly for supporting four controllers . The controller support subassembly includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device such as for example a media and game controller. A front panel I O subassembly supports the multiple functionalities of power button the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of console . Subassemblies and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . In other implementations console can include additional controller subassemblies. The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals e.g. from remote control that can be communicated to module .

MUs and are illustrated as being connectable to MU ports A and B respectively. Additional MUs e.g. MUs are illustrated as being connectable to controllers and i.e. two MUs for each controller. Controllers and can also be configured to receive MUs not shown . Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. Additional memory devices such as portable USB devices can be used in place of the MUs. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into console or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller . A system power supply module provides power to the components of gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within console .

An application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . When console is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU . Other applications may also be stored on hard disk drive for execution on CPU .

Gaming and media system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a monitor a television a video projector or other display device. In this standalone mode gaming and media system enables one or more players to play games or enjoy digital media e.g. by watching movies or listening to music . However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface gaming and media system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community.

Mobile device includes one or more processors and memory . Memory includes applications and non volatile storage . Memory can be any variety of memory storage media types including non volatile and volatile memory. A mobile device operating system handles the different operations of the mobile device and may contain user interfaces for operations such as placing and receiving phone calls text messaging checking voicemail and the like. The applications can be any assortment of programs such as a camera application for photos and or videos an address book a calendar application a media player an internet browser games an alarm application and other applications. The non volatile storage component in memory may contain data such as music photos contact data scheduling data and other files.

The one or more processors also communicates with RF transmitter receiver which in turn is coupled to an antenna with infrared transmitter receiver with global positioning service GPS receiver and with movement orientation sensor which may include an accelerometer and or magnetometer. RF transmitter receiver may enable wireless communication via various wireless technology standards such as Bluetooth or the IEEE 802.11 standards. Accelerometers have been incorporated into mobile devices to enable applications such as intelligent user interface applications that let users input commands through gestures and orientation applications which can automatically change the display from portrait to landscape when the mobile device is rotated. An accelerometer can be provided e.g. by a micro electromechanical system MEMS which is a tiny mechanical device of micrometer dimensions built onto a semiconductor chip. Acceleration direction as well as orientation vibration and shock can be sensed. The one or more processors further communicate with a ringer vibrator a user interface keypad screen a speaker a microphone a camera a light sensor and a temperature sensor . The user interface keypad screen may include a touch sensitive screen display.

The one or more processors controls transmission and reception of wireless signals. During a transmission mode the one or more processors provide voice signals from microphone or other data signals to the RF transmitter receiver . The transmitter receiver transmits the signals through the antenna . The ringer vibrator is used to signal an incoming call text message calendar reminder alarm clock reminder or other notification to the user. During a receiving mode the RF transmitter receiver receives a voice signal or data signal from a remote station through the antenna . A received voice signal is provided to the speaker while other received data signals are processed appropriately.

Additionally a physical connector may be used to connect the mobile device to an external power source such as an AC adapter or powered docking station in order to recharge battery . The physical connector may also be used as a data connection to an external computing device. The data connection allows for operations such as synchronizing mobile device data with the computing data on another device.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The disclosed technology is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the technology include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The disclosed technology may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally software and program modules as described herein include routines programs objects components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Hardware or combinations of hardware and software may be substituted for software modules as described herein.

The disclosed technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

For purposes of this document reference in the specification to an embodiment one embodiment some embodiments or another embodiment are used to described different embodiments and do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

For purposes of this document a connection can be a direct connection or an indirect connection e.g. via another part .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

