---

title: System and method for interfacing with an enterprise resource planning system
abstract: Present embodiments are directed to a system and method for facilitating communication between an external application stored on an external computer and an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system component without utilizing a format of the ERP system. Present embodiments function to receive configurable material in a first data format from the external application into a user control stored on the external computer and convert the configurable material into a second data format with the user control. Additionally, present embodiments operate to make the configurable material available in the second data format to a server-side scripting component of an ERP system. Further, present embodiments function to receive a response object from the server-side scripting component in a third data format and convert the response object into configuration data in the first data format with the user control, and transmit the configuration data in the first data format to the external application with the user control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08533257&OS=08533257&RS=08533257
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 08533257
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of data communication. More particularly the invention relates to a system and method for facilitating user interaction with an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or a module of such a system without requiring a proprietary format associated with the ERP system.

An ERP system typically includes a centralized database and employs a common computing platform. An ERP system may be used to consolidate all of the operations of a business into an enterprise wide system environment that is consistent or uniform throughout the enterprise. An ERP system may generally provide features for resource management. Indeed an ERP system may be described as an integrated computer based system that facilitates management of resources. The resources managed by an ERP system may include internal or external resources such as materials tangible assets financial resources and human resources. A typical purpose for employing an ERP system is to facilitate information flow among internal and or external entities. For example businesses often utilize ERP systems to facilitate sharing and transmission of information between components of the business and outside entities.

An ERP system may be resident on a centralized server. However an ERP system may also be distributed over various servers which enables a business to customize and assemble different components without requiring inclusion of multiple copies of expensive systems in different areas. Indeed an ERP system may be distributed across modules e.g. hardware and software units that provide various different services. Such modules may communicate via a local area network an extended network or the like. Communication with such modules may require that a proprietary format associated with the ERP system be utilized. However it is now recognized that communication between applications external to an ERP system and certain modules of an ERP system may be desirable without requiring such a proprietary format.

Briefly present embodiments are directed to facilitating integration of Enterprise Resource Planning ERP systems with external applications. Such integration is achieved in accordance with present techniques by creating and or utilizing a user control in a software framework which may be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium and implemented by a processor of a device outside of the ERP system. In accordance with present techniques the user control is used in the design of other applications external to the ERP system and enables the external applications to interact with the aspects of the ERP system to perform product configuration. In one embodiment the user control is configured to receive configurable material and an indication regarding whether a new configuration or a reconfiguration is being requested from an external application. The user control then converts the configurable material into a different format and submits the relevant information along with relevant address information to the ERP system. Specifically the user control communicates with a server side scripting component of the ERP system. The server side scripting component communicates with a database and configurator of the ERP system via an Application Programming Interface API . Based on the information from the user control and interaction with the database and configurator the server side scripting component provides a response object to the user control in a particular data representation or format. The user control converts the response object into a different data format and supplies it to the external application. In some embodiments the information provided to the server side scripting component via the user control may include an indication of whether or not a background determination is requested and the server side scripting component may respond with user interface information when a background determination is not requested.

As discussed in detail below embodiments of the present technique function to provide data communication and user interaction with an ERP system and or a particular module of an ERP system in a non proprietary format. In other words present techniques facilitate communication between the ERP system and applications that are not associated with the ERP system wherein the communication received and transmitted by the unassociated application proceeds via a format that is not proprietary with respect to the ERP system. In particular one embodiment of the present technique is directed to facilitating interaction with an ERP system known as SAP Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing which is a product of SAP AG a software corporation headquartered in Walldorf Germany. SAP is typically divided into modules including Financial Accounting FI Controlling CO Production Planning PP Materials Management MM Sales and Distribution SD and so forth. One useful aspect or module of some SAP systems is the SAP Internet Pricing and Configurator IPC which enables users to configure products online and compare pricing information. Specifically the SAP IPC which may also be referred to as AP7 enables users to compare the prices of certain products across various catalogs and market places. The SAP IPC also typically includes a configurable product accrual function or shopping basket function.

Interaction between non SAP applications and the SAP IPC traditionally requires development of a specialized user interface for each non SAP application wherein the specialized user interface employs a proprietary format associated with SAP. Such specialized user interfaces are typically configured to coordinate with an Application Programming Interface API associated with the SAP IPC. Further interaction between a non SAP application and the SAP IPC generally requires modification or customization of SAP. It is now recognized that it is desirable to integrate the proprietary SAP IPC with non SAP applications without using SAP s proprietary communication format with respect to the non SAP applications. Further it is now recognized that it is desirable to perform such a function without requiring customization of SAP.

As indicated above present embodiments enable integration of the SAP IPC with non SAP applications e.g. computer programs and or devices which may be referred to as external applications. Specifically present embodiments facilitate integration of the User Interface and Engine of the SAP IPC with external applications. Such integration is achieved in accordance with present techniques by creating and or utilizing a user control in a software framework which may be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a hard drive a computer disk ROM flash drive and implemented by a processor of a device e.g. laptop desktop server control system outside of an ERP system e.g. an SAP system . In one embodiment the Microsoft.NET platform may be employed as the software framework for the user control. In accordance with present techniques the user control is used in the design of other non SAP applications e.g. web pages and enables the external applications to interact with the SAP IPC User Interface to perform product configuration. Specifically the user control is configured to receive configurable material e.g. KMAT and an indication regarding whether a new configuration or a reconfiguration is being requested from an external application. The user control then submits an HTML Hyper Text Markup Language form including the relevant information along with relevant address information to the SAP system. Specifically the user control communicates with a Java Server Pages JSP component which is provide by the SAP system and communicates with the SAP IPC via an API. Based on the information from the user control and interaction with the SAP IPC the JSP component provides a response object to the user control in a particular data representation e.g. name value pair . The user control converts the response object into XML based configuration data that is supplied to the external application. In some embodiments the information provided to the JSP component via the user control may include an indication of whether or not a background determination is requested and the JSP component may respond with user interface information in HTML when a background determination is not requested.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment or an exemplary embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to affect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Turning now to the drawings and referring to a block diagram of a system in accordance with present embodiments is illustrated. The system includes an ERP system that is configured to communicate with external computers and internal computers . A typical arrangement of the ERP system may include a three tiered architecture. For example in the illustrated embodiment the ERP system includes a presentation tier a logic tier and a data tier. Each tier may include one or more servers and or electronic data storage. In the presentation tier is represented by a web server which includes a server side scripting language component. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment the server side scripting language component is a JSP component . The logic tier is represented by an application server which includes a pricing data and configurator component. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment the pricing data and configurator component includes an IPC such as that provided by SAP. The data tier includes a database . It should be noted that all of these components may be resident on a single physical server or distributed over various different physical servers. Further it should be noted that the pricing data and configurator component or IPC may include all or a portion of the database .

The web server may provide a user interface for the internal computers and the outside computers . The internal computers may directly access the web server via a local area network or the like while the outside computers may access the web server via the Internet or the like. Cumulatively the outside computers and the internal computers may be referred to as user computers . The main function of the web server may include translating tasks and results into data and graphical representations e.g. text and figures that a user is capable of readily understanding. To facilitate achieving this purpose in the illustrated embodiment the web server includes the JSP component . The JSP component communicates with the IPC and user controls in accordance with present embodiments. The user controls reside on each of the user computers and enable communication outside of a proprietary format of the ERP system . The JSP component is a Java based technology that utilizes server side scripting language to provide dynamically generated web pages based on HTML XML or other document types. The JSP component performs tasks on the server side before providing generated web pages. Further the JSP component enables interleaving of certain code and actions with static web markup content. This results in a page being compiled and executed on the web server to deliver a document.

The application server performs various tasks and may include various different applications. Among other things the application server operates to coordinate applications process commands perform calculations perform logical operations make evaluations and so forth. The application server also transfers and processes data between the web server and the database . For example the application server or features of the application server may access the database based on information provided via the web server . Specifically for example data associated with a desired product may be submitted from one of the user computers to the web server which provides the data to the application server and the IPC . In turn the IPC may provide pricing information based on a configuration function and information stored in the database . Depending on the demands of the application server the database stores and retrieves data from a file system or the like. Desired information is passed to the application server for processing and may eventually return for storage in the database .

As indicated above in the illustrated embodiment the application server includes the IPC which may include a database component and a configurator. Pricing data and configurator components such as the IPC are typically used in various different ERP system applications to configure products. Indeed numerous SAP applications may utilize the IPC . The IPC is generally associated with a Customer Relationship Management CRM component of SAP. Thus the IPC may be described as an SAP CRM concept that is used to get price information about a sales order quote or contract being created by a customer. The stored price information and so forth may be considered the database portion of the IPC . The configurator part of the IPC may be considered to be an active component that assists customers in deciding on the designation of various characteristics of products. For example the IPC may be utilized when a customer is configuring a car for purchase over the Internet. When designating the desired car the user may provide values for certain characteristics e.g. a color a model and an indication of new or used to the IPC . The IPC may take this information and provide a response indicative of price availability and so forth. For example the IPC may indicate that because the customer selected a specific color only certain model types are available. As another example the IPC may indicate that a truck is available in the designated color for a specific price.

In the system of it should be noted that the user computers are considered to be external to the ERP system . In other words the user computers are not integrated with the ERP system and do not utilize the proprietary format of the ERP system . Traditionally the IPC limits accessibility to when the proprietary format of the ERP system is employed. However in accordance with present embodiments the user computers include the user controls stored in a memory of each user computer to enable communication in a non proprietary format with respect to the user computers . As will be discussed in further detail below the user controls communicate with the JSP component . In conjunction with other aspects of present techniques this enables communication between the user computers and the IPC in a non proprietary format. Present embodiments facilitate deployment of a common product configurator platform across multiple configurator applications that are external to the ERP system and this will reduce the development cycle for certain products and reduce the time to market for certain new product development for businesses utilizing certain ERP systems such as the ERP system .

Specifically in the user control is illustrated as providing a conduit and translation of information passing between the external application and a JSP component of the ERP system . In turn the JSP component is receiving and transmitting data to an IPC component of the ERP system via an Application Programming Interface API which is a software implemented interface that enables interaction between the JSP component and the IPC component . Specifically the API is implemented by the JSP component and the IPC component to determine respective vocabularies and calling conventions of each which the API uses to access features of the IPC component . These features of the IPC component may thus be utilized by the user control via the JSP component . The API generally requires interactions that utilize a proprietary format of the ERP system .

Traditionally external programs and devices such as the external application have accessed the IPC component directly through the API . However this required utilization of the proprietary format associated with the ERP system and creation of a custom user interface. In contrast in accordance with present embodiments implementation of the user control on the external application enables communication without using the proprietary format and allows use of the same user interface available in SAP IPC. Among other things this is achieved by enabling the user control to communicate with the external application and the JSP component . The user control communicates with the external application using a widely recognized encoding format. For example in one embodiment the user control utilizes XML which is a set of rules for encoding documents in a form that is machine readable. It may be beneficial to utilize XML between the user control and the external application because XML is widely used and will likely be available for numerous applications. The user control may translate XML based data received from the external application into a format that the JSP component is capable of receiving and or utilizing. Specifically in one embodiment the user control translates XML data into an HTML form for submission to the JSP component which is capable of handling data presented as an HTML form. Further the user control may receive and interpret a response from the JSP component provided in a particular data representation format and provide the external application with the response in the encoding format recognized by the external application . Specifically for example the JSP component may provide a response as a name value pair or attribute value pair representation and the user control may translate the response into XML data and transmit the translated response to the external application .

In the illustrated embodiment the user control and the external application are stored on a memory and operated by a processor of a computer e.g. a laptop or desktop computer . In operation the user control acquires or receives data from the external application . In other words data is transmitted from the external application to the user control . Various data transmissions are illustrated in as arrows. The transmission of data from the external application to the user control is represented by arrow . Specifically the external application provides material to the user control as configuration data in a standard encoding format such as XML. In one embodiment the material includes configurable material or KMAT which may be beneficial over other material types because a large number of combinations of features may be selected for a product. The configurable material includes characteristics values and rules. For example a characteristic may include color a value may include red and a rule may include only model A is available when red is the value of color. Configurable material such as this may be utilized in conjunction with the IPC component to define aspects of a particular product and generate information about availability price and so forth. It should be noted that the user control may provide a user interface that enables customization of the configurable material. Indeed in one embodiment the user control is capable of receiving specific user selections of characteristics values and rules via a user interface provided by the user control .

In addition to the configurable material the data transmission also includes certain discrete variable indications regarding functions to be performed by the user control . For example the data transmission includes an indication as to whether a new configuration is being requested or a reconfiguration of an existing configuration is being requested. This indication may be provided by selecting a start configuration button or a reconfigure button in a user interface provided in accordance with present embodiments. If a user indicates that a new configuration is desired e.g. selects the start configuration button a new configuration is initiated. If the user indicates that a reconfiguration is desired e.g. selects the reconfigure button an indicated existing configuration is provided for editing. Further in one embodiment the data transmission includes an indication of whether a background determination is desired. This may also be indicated by selecting a button or the like. This indication relates to whether a user interface e.g. a graphical data entry feature is provided for particular changes or selections as will be discussed in further detail below.

The user control converts the information from the data transmission into information that the JSP component is capable of handling e.g. an HTML form . Accordingly the characteristics values and rules provided by the data transmission are converted into an HTML form that is then transmitted from the user control to the JSP component . The data transmission including this converted or translated information is represented by arrow in . Specifically in the illustrated embodiment the configuration material and so forth from the data transmission is converted into an HTML form and provided to the JSP component based on a specified address of the JSP component . Indeed the data transmission also includes instructions regarding delivery of the data provided therein. Specifically the data transmission may indicate that data should be provided to a particular landscape of a particular client at a specific address. For example the data transmission may be directed to a CRM client and a development sandbox server of the ERP system . Further the data transmission includes an address of the user control component e.g. hookURL .

As discussed above the JSP component is configured to cooperate with the IPC component via the API . Specifically in the illustrated embodiment the JSP component utilizes the information provided via the data transmission to activate the IPC component via the API and to acquire a response from the IPC component that is based on the characteristics values and rules set forth in the HTML form of the data transmission . Once the results from the IPC component based on the information in the HTML form are obtained the JSP component makes them available as a response object as represented by data transmission . Specifically the user control accesses this response object and translates it from a data representation provided by the JSP component into a data format that is utilized by the external application . For example the user control may receive the response object as a name value pair in the data transmission and convert the response object into XML. After translation the data from the response object is provided to the external application as represented by data transmission .

As discussed above in some embodiments the information provided to the JSP component via the user control may include an indication of whether or not a background determination is requested as represented by the data transmission . The indication may be selected in a separate user interface as a check box or the like. If the box is checked by the user a background determination will be performed without potentially time consuming and inefficient utilization of a user interface. For example if a user wants to configure multiple features with a single value of a characteristic the user may prefer to do so in a background determination so that initiation of a user interface for each feature is not required. As a specific example a user may be configuring a cabinet for a motor control center. One characteristic of each component of the cabinet may be a name display that has a value of either yes or no. In other words a user can select to either provide a component with a name display or not. If a user wishes to exclude the name display on every component the user may select a value of no for the name display characteristic for all components and utilize a background determination which may avoid utilization of a user interface for each component that is being modified.

When a background determination is not requested the JSP component provides HTML data as represented by transmission . The HTML data corresponds to the provision of a user interface for a particular configuration or the like. In other words the HTML data enables the display and utilization of a user interface for configuration purposes. The HTML data is received by the user control and is then simply passed along unchanged to the external application as represented by data transmission . It should be noted that the capability of designating a background determination may require modification of at least one component of the ERP system .

While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

