---

title: Registration with a mobile telecommunications service provider
abstract: A method performed by a mobile device to register for cellular data connection service provided by a mobile telecommunications service provider. The mobile device determines that it does not have a valid cellular data connection subscription with the mobile telecommunications service provider. Responsive to that determination, the mobile device connects to a cellular data connection service registration site to allow a user of the mobile device to register for data connection service provided by the mobile telecommunications service provider. The mobile device is limited to accessing the data connection service registration site until the user registers for data connection service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805365&OS=08805365&RS=08805365
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08805365
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 295 651 filed Jan. 15 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 298 525 filed Jan. 26 2010 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments of the invention relate to the field of mobile telecommunications and more specifically to improving registration with a mobile telecommunications service provider.

Mobile devices e.g. laptops palmtops mobile phones smartphones multimedia phones tablets portable media player etc. which are a form of data processing systems commonly include the capability of connecting and using data services e.g. through a cellular network WiMAX etc. provided by mobile telecommunications service providers. Mobile device users are required to register e.g. purchase change activate etc. for cellular data connection service with a mobile telecommunications service provider prior to being able to use the service provided by that service provider. For example prior to a user being able to access the Internet using a cellular data connection of their mobile device the user must register for that service with a mobile telecommunications service provider.

It is common for users to register for service when purchasing mobile devices. Users may also register or change cellular data connection service through a telephone or through the Internet. However current mechanisms for registering for cellular data connection service for mobile devices through the Internet are performed through separate Internet connections e.g. through a different computing device than the mobile device through a Wi Fi LAN Internet connection of the mobile device etc. .

A method and apparatus for mobile devices registering with mobile telecommunications service providers is described. In one embodiment a mobile device initially attempts to establish a cellular data connection with a network identified with a first access point name APN . The first APN typically identifies a public network e.g. the Internet . The request is processed by the cellular network that performs an authorization procedure to determine whether the mobile device is authorized to use the network identified by the first APN. If the mobile device is authorized then a data connection will be established and the services provided through the first APN can be used. However if the mobile device is not authorized the cellular network transmits a message to the mobile device that indicates that the mobile device is not currently authorized. The message may indicate that the mobile device does not currently have a valid subscription for the first APN. Responsive to receiving such a message the mobile device establishes a cellular data connection with a second network identified by a second APN. The second network is typically limited to a data connection service registration site that allows the user to register for cellular data connection service. The mobile device connects to the cellular data connection registration site thereby allowing the user to register for cellular data connection services e.g. select and or purchase a cellular data rate plan add buy credits to a prepaid data rate plan etc. .

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

In the following description and claims the terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Coupled is used to indicate that two or more elements which may or may not be in direct physical or electrical contact with each other co operate or interact with each other. Connected is used to indicate the establishment of communication between two or more elements that are coupled with each other.

A method and apparatus for mobile devices registering with mobile telecommunications service providers is described. In one embodiment a mobile device initially attempts to establish a cellular data connection hereinafter data connection with a network identified by an access point name APN . The initially identified APN is sometimes referred herein as the main APN. The network identified by the main APN may be a public network e.g. the Internet or a private network e.g. a corporate intranet a wireless application protocol WAP service a multimedia messaging service MMS etc. . The main APN is also associated with a set of implementation parameters e.g. firewall rules access control rules cost etc. . The cellular network performs an authorization procedure to determine whether the mobile device is authorized to access the network identified by the main APN. If the mobile device is authorized to use the network identified by the main APN then a data connection will be established and the services provided by that network may be used. In some embodiments the main APN may also requires a username and password prior to authorizing access.

However if the mobile device is not authorized the cellular network transmits an error message that indicates the mobile device is not authorized to access the network identified by the main APN e.g. the mobile device is currently not subscribed to the services offered by the main APN the mobile device currently does not have credit to access the services offered by the main APN etc. . Responsive to receiving such an error message the mobile device establishes a data connection with a different network identified by a different APN to allow the mobile device to access a registration site that allows a user to register for the services provided by the network identified by the main APN. This different APN is sometimes referred herein as the registration APN. In some embodiments the network identified by the registration APN is limited to a registration site. The mobile device connects to the registration site e.g. via a mobile telecommunications service registration application e.g. a web browser or other Internet enabled interface thereby allowing the user to register for services provided by the network identified by the main APN e.g. select and or purchase a data rate plan add buy credits for a prepaid data rate plan etc. .

Sometime after the user registers for data connection service the mobile device tears down the data connection to the registration APN and establishes a data connection with the network identified by the main APN the mobile device will now be authorized to use the services . The mobile device may then be able to use the services provided by the network identified by the main APN.

The registration APN network and the main APN network and coupled to the cellular network . The main APN network which is identified through the main APN may be a public network e.g. the Internet or a private network e.g. a corporate intranet a wireless application protocol WAP service a multimedia messaging service MMS etc. . In one embodiment access to the main APN network is specific to a particular mobile telecommunications service provider. That is even though the main APN network may be a public network e.g. the Internet access to the network may be limited and controlled by a particular mobile telecommunications service provider. The registration APN network which is identified through the registration APN includes a set of restricted services including the data connection service registration site . The data connection service registration site allows users to register for the services provided by the main APN network e.g. select and or purchase a data rate plan add buy credits for a prepaid data rate plan etc. or other network. In one embodiment the set of restricted services are provided by the mobile telecommunications service provider controlling access to the main APN network while in other embodiments the set of restricted services are provided by multiple mobile telecommunications service provider.

At operation the mobile device attempts to establish a data connection through the main APN. For example the mobile device transmits a data activation request to the cellular network for the main APN. The data activation request may also include a set of one or more other parameters e.g. PDP Packet Data Protocol type PDP address type QoS profile request IMSI international mobile subscriber identity of the SIM subscriber identity module card etc. . The data activation request may be transmitted as a result of the mobile device turning on after the mobile device is within cellular service range after data connectivity is requested by the user e.g. opening a data connection application such as a browser etc. With reference to the data connection control module controls the transmission of the data connection activation request. For example the data connection control module accesses the appropriate one of the carrier bundle s to determine the value of the main APN and other parameters. Each of the carrier bundle s includes one or more settings specific to a carrier e.g. APN settings MMS settings and other settings relating to cellular telephony service . In one embodiment the main APN is a default APN included in a default carrier bundle.

In some embodiments users may purchase prepaid SIM cards that have been preloaded with an amount of credit for data service e.g. a number of minutes an amount of bandwidth etc. of a mobile telecommunications service provider. The prepaid SIM cards must be activated before they can be used. SIM cards which are not yet activated for a given APN are sometimes known as warm SIM cards. In contrast SIM cards which have been activated for that APN are sometimes known as hot SIM cards.

The cellular network receives the data activation request and at operation determines that the mobile device is not presently authorized for a data connection through the main APN. In other words the data connection establishment through the main APN has failed. In some embodiments the cellular network includes a home location register HLR database which includes records for each mobile device that is authorized to use the main APN. For example the IMSI of the mobile device is checked against the HLR records for the main APN. The mobile device is not authorized to use the main APN if the IMSI of the mobile device is not included in an HLR record or if a corresponding HLR record indicates that the mobile device is not presently authorized e.g. the mobile device does not have any minutes remaining in its plan etc. .

Sometime after determining that the mobile device is not presently authorized for the main APN at operation the cellular network transmits a message to the mobile device indicating so. In some embodiments this message includes an error code that indicates the mobile device does not have a valid data connection subscription for the main APN. With reference to the data connection control module receives the unauthorized message from the cellular network .

Sometime after receiving the unauthorized message at operation the mobile device transmits a data activation request to the cellular network that includes a registration APN which identifies the registration APN network . Similar to the data activation request of operation the data activation request of operation may also include a set of one or more other parameters e.g. PDP Packet Data Protocol type PDP address type QoS profile request IMSI international mobile subscriber identity etc. . With reference to after receiving the unauthorized message the data connection control module accesses the carrier bundle s to determine the parameters and identity of the registration APN. In one embodiment the registration APN is located in the same carrier bundle as the main APN. For example if the mobile telecommunications service provider A is associated with the main APN the carrier bundle for service provider A is accessed to determine the registration APN associated with the service provider A. In other embodiments the registration APN is generic and is applicable to multiple mobile telecommunications service providers.

The cellular network receives the data activation request and at operation determines that the mobile device is authorized to use the registration APN. In some embodiments all mobile devices are authorized to use the registration APN while in other embodiments only certain mobile devices as identified by their IMSI are authorized to use the registration APN. For example a portion of each IMSI is typically assigned to a mobile telecommunications service provider e.g. in the Mobile Network Code MNC portion of the IMSI . If the registration APN is operated or controlled by a particular mobile telecommunications service provider that service provider may limit access to the registration APN to those mobile devices having IMSIs that include the MNC of that service provider.

After determining that the mobile device is authorized for the registration APN the cellular network transmits a data activation accepted message to the mobile device at operation . With reference to the data connection control module receives the data activation accepted message.

Sometime after receiving the data activation accepted message at operation the mobile device connects to the registration APN network . As previously described the registration APN network is limited to a set of restricted services. For example in one embodiment the registration APN network limits the mobile device to accessing the data connection service registration site where the user of the mobile device may register for data connection service e.g. for the main APN network . In some embodiments connecting to the registration APN network includes establishing a PDP Packet Data Protocol context for the registration APN.

In some embodiments the mobile device launches a data connection service registration application to connect to the registration APN network . For example with reference to the data connection control module triggers the launch of one of the data connection service registration application s . The data connection service registration application s connect to the network provided by the registration APN e.g. the data connection service registration site and allows users to register for data connection service. The data connection service registration application s may include a web browser and or other applications capable of accessing the network provided by the registration APN. In some embodiments the service registration application s are different for different mobile telecommunications service providers. For example one or more of the service registration application s may be designed and or customized by a particular mobile telecommunications service provider and may operate differently than other ones of the service registration application s . For example as will be described in greater detail with respect to some of the data connection service registration application s may be programmed to display a cancel button at certain times of the data connection registration process while other data connection service registration applications s do not display a cancel button.

An exemplary service registration application is illustrated in . As illustrated in the service registration application includes the data connection service registration options and optionally the cancel button and the done button . The cancel button and the done button will be described in greater detail later herein.

The data connection service registration options include one or more data connection service options that the user can select from. By way of example these options include registering for a new data plan e.g. purchasing a number of minutes purchasing an amount of bandwidth etc. and or adding credits e.g. minutes bandwidth etc. to an existing data plan. The data connection service registration options are typically specific for a particular mobile telecommunications service provider and only include registration options for that service provider. However in some embodiments the registration APN is common to multiple telecommunications service providers. In such embodiments the data connection service registration site may provide data connection service registration options for multiple mobile telecommunications service providers. Thus in these embodiments the user of the mobile device may compare contrast and select data connection plans from multiple mobile telecommunications service providers. It should be understood that if the user selects or registers for services from a different mobile telecommunications service provider than is associated with the main APN the mobile device may be required to download or receive a carrier bundle for the selected mobile telecommunications service provider.

Although not illustrated in it should be understood that the service registration application may display additional items. For example the service registration application may display advertisements news updates weather updates stock updates etc. In addition it should be understood that a user may navigate through several screens while registering for data connection services. For example the data connection service registration site may include several web pages e.g. a registration page a page regarding details of each plan a profile page a confirmation page etc. .

In some embodiments in addition to displaying the data connection service registration options information may be displayed based on the approximate present location of the mobile device e.g. state city neighborhood place e.g. hotel resort airport coffee shop school etc. etc. . For example the approximate location may be determined through use of GPS functionality built within the mobile device and or determined through triangulation using cellular towers or Wi Fi hotspots. The mobile device may transmit its approximate location to the registration APN network after it is connected to the network .

For instance if the mobile device is determined to be presently located near a resort or hotel information specific to that resort or hotel e.g. related to services offered by the resort information about the surrounding area current weather etc. may be displayed in addition to the data connection service registration options . It should be understood that while the information specific to the resort is displayed in some embodiments the user is allowed to continue to register for services for the main APN. Thus while the user is waiting for the registration process to complete the user may access pages or information specific to the location of the mobile device .

Referring back to at operation the user of the mobile device has selected a service for the main APN through the data connection service registration site and the selected service has been communicated to the service registration site . The mobile telecommunications service provider then completes the registration for the mobile device for the selected service. For example at operation the registration APN network transmits a service registration update to the cellular network that includes information indicating that the mobile device is registered for service through the main APN. Sometime after receiving this message at operation a record is created and or updated for the mobile device for the main APN network . For example an HLR record for the IMSI of the SIM card of the mobile device is created and stored in the HLR database. After the IMSI of the SIM has been placed into an HLR record the SIM card is known as a hot SIM card and the mobile device should be able to use the main APN network .

At operation the mobile device receives a data connection service registration success message from the cellular network that indicates that registration was successful. With reference to the data connection control module receives the data connection service registration success message. In one embodiment this message is an SMS message which is interpreted by the data connection control module . Upon receiving this message the data connection control module may cause an appropriate message to be displayed on the service registration application or other window and or cause the application to close.

Although illustrates the operation occurring after the record for the mobile device was created in other embodiments the cellular network transmits a message after a predefined amount of time has elapsed e.g. in case that the registration was not successful . For example sometime after establishing a data connection through the registration APN the cellular network may start a timer based on the expected amount of time for a successful registration. If an HLR record for the mobile device is not created or updated prior to that timer expiring the cellular network will transmit a message indicating that registration was not successful. With reference to service registration failure messages are also received and interpreted by the data connection control module they may also be SMS messages . Upon receiving a service registration failure message the data connection control module may cause an appropriate message to be displayed on the service registration application or other window.

Referring back to sometime after receiving the service registration success message at operation the mobile device disconnects from the registration APN. In one embodiment this includes tearing down the PDP context to the registration APN. In one embodiment this may be initiated by the mobile device while in other embodiments this may be initiated by the cellular network . In either case a data deactivation request message and a data deactivation accept message are exchanged between the mobile device and the cellular network . With reference to the data connection control module controls the transmission and processing of the data deactivation request and accept messages.

After disconnecting from the registration APN the mobile device connects to the main APN network identified by the main APN. For example at operation the mobile device transmits a data activation request to the cellular network . The data activation request in operation is similar to the data activation request described in reference to operation . The cellular network receives the data activation request and at operation determines that the mobile device is presently authorized to use the main APN e.g. the SIM card of the mobile device is now hot . Sometime after determining that the mobile device is authorized for the main APN the cellular network transmits a data activation accepted message to the mobile device at operation . Sometime after receiving the data activation accepted message at operation the mobile device connects to the main APN network . After connecting to the main APN network the mobile device may use the services provided by the main APN network e.g. general Internet access etc. . Thus unlike prior mechanisms a user of the mobile device can use an unsubscribed cellular data connection to register for cellular data connection services e.g. the Internet .

In an alternative embodiment instead of the cellular network transmitting a registration success or failure message as described in operation the mobile device waits some amount of time after selecting the service as described in operation disconnects from the registration APN as described in operation and then transmits a data activation request to the cellular network for the main APN in a similar way as described in operation . It should be understood that the data activation request will not be accepted until the cellular network has been updated to reflect the selection of service.

Referring back to the cancel button and or the done button are optionally displayed on the data connection service registration application . The cancel button when selected by a user causes the data connection service registration application to exit and the corresponding data connection service registration procedure to end. Thus when the cancel button is selected the data connection service registration procedure ends. In one embodiment the cancel button is not part of the service registration application by itself. In other words the functionality of the cancel button is not a native feature of the registration application interface but may be incorporated through the use of one or more APIs.

The cancel button may not be displayed during all stages of the service registration process. In one embodiment the mobile telecommunications service provider associated with the data connection service registration application defines whether the cancel button appears on the service registration application and or at what stage in the service registration process the cancel button appears.

The done button allows the user to signify to the data connection service registration application that the user has finished using the application . For example the user may select the done button when he or she is finished registering for data connection service. Similar to the cancel button the done button may not be included during all stages of the service registration process. In one embodiment the mobile telecommunications service provider associated with the service registration application defines whether the done button appears on the service registration application and or at what stage in the service registration process the done button appears.

In some embodiments the cancel button and the done button may be implemented through the use of one or more Application Programming Interface APIs . An API is an interface implemented by a software component hereinafter API implementing software component that allows a different software component hereinafter API calling software component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures and or other services provided by the API implementing software component. For example an API allows a developer of an API calling software component which may be a third party developer to leverage specified features provided by an API implementing software component. There may be one API calling software component or there may be more than one such software component. An API can be a source code interface that a computer system or program library provides in order to support requests for services from a software application. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpretative or compiled when an application is built rather than an explicit low level description of how data is laid out in memory.

The API defines the language and parameters that API calling software components use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing software component. For example an API calling software component accesses the specified features of the API implementing software component through one or more API calls sometimes referred to as function or method calls exposed by the API. The API implementing software component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling software component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API typically does not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various function calls or messages are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling software API calling software component and an API implementing software component. Transferring the function calls or messages may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages. Hence an API calling software component can transfer a call and an API implementing software component can transfer a call.

By way of example the API implementing software component and the API calling software component may be an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other software module it should be understood that the API implementing software component and the API calling software component may be the same or different type of software module from each other . The API calling software component may be a local software component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementing software component or a remote software component i.e. on a different data processing system as the API implementing software component that communicates with the API implementing software component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing software component may also act as an API calling software component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing software component and an API calling software component may also act as an API implementing software component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling software component.

As described above the cancel button and or the done button may be implemented using one or more APIs. For example in one embodiment a mobile telecommunications data connection service registration API is defined which allows developers e.g. the mobile telecommunication service providers to show and hide the cancel button on the data connection service registration application .

Thus the service registration application makes API calls through the mobile telecommunications service registration API to access and use the functions and . For example regarding the show cancel button function the service registration application may make the show cancel button call when it wants to show the cancel button and provide its underlying functionality to the user e.g. when it is appropriate for the service registration application to provide the user the option to cancel the registration process and close the service registration application . The API performs the show cancel button function which leverages one or more functions or methods provided by the user interface framework and the result is that the cancel button is shown on the service registration application . In one embodiment the show cancel button call includes one or more parameters that allow the developer to indicate the location and or size of the cancel button while in other embodiments the show cancel button will be located in a default position on the service registration application and be a default size. Although not illustrated in it should be understood that the underlying functionality of the cancel button e.g. to close the service registration application when selected is also provided by the user interface framework and may also be used by the service registration application through an API call.

Regarding the hide cancel button function the service registration application may make the hide cancel button call when it wants to hide the cancel button and thus prevent the service registration procedure to be cancelled by the user and the service registration application from being closed by the user. The API performs the hide cancel button function which leverages one or more functions or methods provided by the user interface framework and the result is that the cancel button is hidden e.g. removed from the service registration application .

Regarding the done button function the service registration application may make the done button call responsive to a user selecting the done button . The API performs the done button function which leverages one or more functions or methods provided by the user interface framework to close the service registration application window .

In some embodiments mobile telecommunications service providers transmit account status update messages to the mobile devices to remind or notify the users of the current amount of service remaining on their account e.g. the amount of minutes remaining the amount of bandwidth remaining etc. . The account can be a prepaid account or an account that may have a service limit before causing the user to pay extra. In some embodiments the messages are sent periodically e.g. once a week etc. while in other embodiments the messages are sent when the remaining amount on the prepaid account is below a certain threshold. In some embodiments the messages are SMS Short Message Service messages which are in a format that the mobile device can interpret and display to the user.

With reference to the data connection control module receives these account status update messages and may trigger the launch of the account status notification application . The account status notification application displays the information corresponding to the account status update message. In some embodiments the account status notification application also includes options to add minutes or bandwidth to the account.

Some embodiments may implement location based APNs when establishing data connections. A location based APN is a custom APN that is typically defined with a specific set of services for that location e.g. state city neighborhood place e.g. hotel resort airport coffee shop school etc. . For instance a location based APN may be defined for a resort that allows mobile devices to connect to resources specified by that resort e.g. information related to services offered by the resort information about the surrounding area current weather etc. . In some embodiments the location based APNs may also give the option for the user to register for general Internet connectivity. For instance an APN for an airport may be defined that allows all mobile devices to connect without a fee to a first set of services typically restricted and specific to the airport news etc. and allows for registered mobile devices to connect to a second set of services e.g. general Internet connectivity . In this example the first set of services may also provide the option for users to register for the second set of services.

In some embodiments the mobile device includes a database of location based APNs. The database of location based APNs may be periodically updated when the mobile device is connected to a data network. In other embodiments the cellular network maintains a database of location based APNs. After receiving a message from the cellular network that the mobile device is not authorized for service with the main APN the approximate location of the mobile device is determined. For example the approximate location may be determined through use of GPS functionality built within the mobile device and or determined through triangulation using cellular towers or Wi Fi hotspots. If the mobile device is in a location of one of the APNs the user can be notified and can select to connect to the network identified by those APNs.

The operations begin at block where the approximate present location of the mobile device is determined. The approximate location may be determined through use of GPS functionality built within the mobile device and or determined through triangulation using cellular towers and or Wi Fi hotspots. In some embodiments the mobile device determines its approximate location and transmits it to the cellular network while in other embodiments the mobile device determines its approximate location and does not transmit it to the cellular network while yet in other embodiments the cellular network determines the approximate location of the mobile device . Flow moves from block to block .

At block it is determined whether the mobile device is in an area defined for a location based APN. If the mobile device is in an area defined for a location based APN then flow moves to block otherwise flow moves to block where alternative action is taken e.g. the process ends . In embodiments where the mobile device maintains a database of location based APNs the mobile device may access that database to determine whether it is currently located within an area defined for that APN. In embodiments where the cellular network maintains a database of location based APNs the cellular network may access that database with the determined approximate location of the mobile device to determine whether the mobile device is within an area defined for a location based APN. It should be understood that it is possible for the mobile device to be in the area for multiple location based APNs at a given time.

At block the user of the mobile device is notified of the availability of the location based APN s . For example a window may be displayed on the mobile device which lists the location based APN s currently available. Details of the location based APN s may also be displayed e.g. services that the location based APN s provides etc. . Other notification mechanisms may be used e.g. text message email graphical alert etc. . The user is also given the option of selecting one of those location based APN s . In those embodiments where the cellular network maintains the database of location based APN s the cellular network may transmit the details of the APNs in the area. Flow moves from block to block .

At block the user has selected to connect to one of the available location based APN s . Flow moves from block to block where the mobile device forms and transmits a data activation request similar to the data activation request described in operation of to the cellular network . The cellular network then determines whether the mobile device is authorized for the selected location based APN e.g. in a similar way as described in operation of . The cellular network may also validate the location of the mobile device prior to granting authorization to the selected location based APN e.g. based on triangulation of cell towers etc. .

Flow moves from block to block where the mobile device determines whether activation was successful. For example with reference to the mobile device may receive a data activation accepted message as similarly described in operation of . If activation was successful then flow moves to block where the mobile device connects to the selected location based APN network e.g. in a similar way as described with reference to operation of otherwise flow moves to block where alternative action is taken e.g. the process ends . The mobile device may use the services provided by the selected location based APN network once connected.

As illustrated in the computer system which is a form of a data processing system includes the bus es which is coupled with the processing system power supply memory and the nonvolatile memory e.g. a hard drive flash memory Phase Change Memory PCM etc. . The bus es may be connected to each other through various bridges controllers and or adapters as is well known in the art. The processing system may retrieve instruction s from the memory and or the nonvolatile memory and execute the instructions to perform operations as described above. The bus interconnects the above components together and also interconnects those components to the optional dock the display controller display device Input Output devices e.g. NIC Network Interface Card a cursor control e.g. mouse touchscreen touchpad etc. a keyboard etc. and the optional wireless transceiver s e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Infrared cellular telephony GPS etc. .

The memory may store data and or programs for execution by the data processing system . The audio input output may include a microphone and or a speaker to for example play music and or provide telephony functionality through the speaker and microphone. The display controller and display device may include a graphical user interface GUI . The wireless e.g. RF transceivers e.g. a WiFi transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver GPS transceiver etc. may be used to communicate with other data processing systems. The one or more input devices allow a user to provide input to the system. These input devices may be a keypad keyboard touch panel multi touch panel etc. The optional other input output may be a connector for a dock.

The techniques shown in the figures can be implemented using code and data stored and executed on one or more electronic devices e.g. data processing systems etc. . Such electronic devices store and communicate internally and or with other electronic devices over a network code and data using machine readable media such as machine readable storage media e.g. magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices phase change memory and machine readable communication media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. . In addition such electronic devices typically include a set of one or more processors coupled to one or more other components such as one or more storage devices user input output devices e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen and or a display and network connections. The coupling of the set of processors and other components is typically through one or more busses and bridges also termed as bus controllers . The storage device and signals carrying the network traffic respectively represent one or more machine readable storage media and machine readable communication media. Thus the storage device of a given electronic device typically stores code and or data for execution on the set of one or more processors of that electronic device.

It should be apparent from this description that aspects of the present invention may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in memory such as a ROM RAM mass storage or a remote storage device. In various embodiments hardware circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the present invention. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system. In addition throughout this description various functions and operations are described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor.

While embodiments of the invention have been described in relation to cellular networks types of networks may be used e.g. Wi MAX networks . Therefore embodiments of the invention are not limited to cellular data connections and cellular networks.

While embodiments of the invention have been described in relation to a user registering for data connection service other types of services may be registered using the registration site. For example the registration site may allow users to register for and or change existing text message services voice services e.g. selecting different voice plans and or service options or other services.

In some embodiments responsive to a user attempting to use a service e.g. text message service voice service etc. which he she is not currently subscribed for or does not have an appropriate number of credits to complete the user is directed to a registration site to allow the user to register for service e.g. a text message plan and or a voice plan and or add credits e.g. number of text messages voice minutes bandwidth etc. to an existing service. This registration site may be the same or may be different than the data connection registration site. The connection to the registration site may be performed differently depending on the connection state of the mobile device. For example if the mobile device currently has a network connection capable of accessing the registration site e.g. a Wi Fi connection a wired connection a mobile telecommunications data connection etc. that network connection will be used to connect the mobile device to the registration site. However if the mobile device does not currently have such a network connection and one is not available a data connection through a registration APN similarly as described with reference to registering for data service as described above may be established to direct the user to the registration site. The mobile device may be limited to accessing the registration site through the registration APN.

While the flow diagrams in the figures show a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary e.g. alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations etc. .

While the invention has been described in terms of several embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

