---

title: System, method and apparatus for treating back pain during rest
abstract: An application for a system, method and apparatus that directs light and heat towards an area of pain of a person while the person rests on a section of furniture (e.g., sleeps on a mattress). The light and heat are provided by an array of LEDS that are removably situated within a cavity that is, for example, formed or cut into the furniture/mattress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08375485&OS=08375485&RS=08375485
owner: Anodyne Therapy, L.L.C.
number: 08375485
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100804
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application titled HEAT AND LIGHT EMITTING PAD Ser. No. 12 849 833 filed even date here within. This application is also related to U.S. patent application titled INTEGRATED SYSTEM METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TREATING BACK PAIN DURING REST Ser. No. 12 849 835 filed even date here within. This application is also related to U.S. patent application titled WORN HEAT AND LIGHT EMITTING DEVICE Ser. No. 12 849 836 filed even date here within.

This invention relates to the field of pain relief and more particularly to a system for the deliver of heat and infrared light to a user for the relief of pain.

It is known that exposure to heat and certain wavelengths of light are useful to temporarily increase local circulation reduce pain and to enhance healing as detailed in Michlovitz and Nolan Modalities for Therapeutic Intervention 4th Ed. F. A. Davis Company 2005 . Recent inventions have used light and or heat as a therapeutic device for the relief of pain. In particular it has been shown that infra red and near infra red light of certain wavelengths possess therapeutic qualities. Exposure to certain wavelengths of light is known to alleviate various effects that sun exposure gravity pollution and chemicals have on the skin.

LED Devices that emit infrared wavelengths of light are well known and are capable of providing sufficient light for therapeutic effects to persons exposed to the light under certain conditions. Additionally such LED Devices also emit heat which also provide therapeutic effects such as reducing pain in certain situations. Existing stand alone LED devices do not provide for sufficiently convenient at home applications of infrared light and heat. For example cable connected devices are available having multiple LED arrays for the irradiation of a user s leg or foot but the cable causes problems as the user moves. Likewise battery powered devices also having multiple LED arrays for the irradiation of a user s foot or leg improve upon this problem but the batteries cause an issue by presenting hard bulges that exert pressure on the user when the user rests in certain positions.

What is needed is a system that will irradiate a locale of a user with heat and light while the user rests.

The present invention includes a system method and apparatus for directing light and heat towards an area of pain of a person while the person rests on a section of furniture e.g. sleeps on a mattress . The light and heat is provided by an array of LEDS that are removably situated within a cavity that is for example formed or cut into the section of furniture mattress.

In one embodiment a system for providing heat and light to a person for the purpose of treating pain is disclosed including a section of furniture for supporting the person. The section of furniture has a cavity located on a surface which contacts the person and an array of LEDS is fit snuggly within the cavity and is removable from the cavity. The LEDS are positioned within the cavity to direct light and heat towards an area of pain of the person.

In another embodiment a method of reducing pain in a person is disclosed including providing a section of furniture for supporting the person. The section of furniture has a cavity located on a surface which contacts the person. An array of LEDS is snuggly fit within the cavity and are also removable from the cavity. The LEDS are positioned to direct light and heat towards an area of pain of the person. The person rests on the section of furniture for a period of time in which the array of LEDS emit light and heat for at least a portion of the period of time of rest.

In another embodiment an apparatus for providing heat and light to a person for the purpose of treating pain is disclosed including a section of furniture. The section of furniture supports the person and has a cavity or other receptacle for removably containing an array of LEDS. The array of LEDS fit snuggly within the cavity or other receptacle and are removable. The LEDS within the array are positioned to direct light and heat towards an area of pain of the person. It is anticipated that the section of furniture is either a portion of the furniture such as a mattress cushion etc or the section of furniture is the entire furniture such as a foam chair etc.

Reference will now be made in detail to the presently preferred embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Throughout the following detailed description the same reference numerals refer to the same elements in all figures.

Throughout this description a mattress bed is used as an example of furniture. This is but an example and it is anticipated that the present method apparatus and system be used in conjunction and or integrated into any type of human supporting or contact furniture such as pillows chairs recliners couches sofas futons car vehicle seats etc. It is further anticipated that the present method apparatus and system be applied to other devices systems that normally contact the human body such as bicycle seats motorcycle seats arm rests head rests etc. When integrated into for example a pillow the pillow is for example placed behind the back when the person is sitting in a chair for back pain or against the neck for neck pain.

Referring to a perspective view of a first embodiment is shown. In this embodiment an array of LEDS is integrated into a treatment pad that is positioned on for example a bed mattress . The LEDS are connected by a circuit board and held in a soft rubber plastic holder see . In some embodiments the thin pad LEDS and circuit board are enclosed in a cloth cover for protection. The LEDS are powered through a cable connected to a power supply controller see . The power supply controller provides a controlled amount of electrical energy to the array of LEDS causing the LEDS to emit light at one or more wavelengths preferably including infrared or near infrared. Additionally the LEDS produce heat. Both the light and heat provide therapeutic effect to a person in contact with the thin pad of LEDS when in contact with the person. It is anticipated that for relief of back pain the person positions themselves such that the person s back or lower back is located directly over the thin pad of LEDS see . The invention is anticipated to perform equally as well with other parts of the human body.

Referring to a second perspective view of a second embodiment is shown. This embodiment includes a modular section within furniture such as a mattress . In such a cavity is made formed left in the furniture mattress into which an option module is fit. In such for deployment of the furniture mattress without the array of LEDS a blank insert is placed in the cavity. Therefore when the furniture mattress is covered e.g. with a sheet see and the cavity is filled with the blank insert it is difficult to detect by a person using the furniture mattress . Alternately when the array of LEDS is to be used the blank insert is removed and the array of LEDS is inserted into the cavity of the mattress furniture . As shown in the entire array is populated with LEDS preferably infrared or near infrared LEDS or a mixture of infrared or near infrared LEDS and or visible light LEDS . Any wavelength of LEDS is anticipated. In embodiments in which the furniture mattress is a mattress it is anticipated that the mattress comprise any known mattress material currently used in the industry including foam rubber e.g. latex foam memory foam visco elastic memory foam material and the like. Memory foam material is often made from synthetic polyurethane foam material with the addition of certain types of chemicals which increase the weight or density of the foam as known in the industry. It is further anticipated that the mattress in some embodiments is an air mattress and therefore the mattress is completely sealed and air tight around the cavity .

Referring to a third and fourth perspective view of the second embodiment is shown. In this the array of LEDS is populated with LEDS towards one end of the array and the array is passive at the opposite end absent of active LEDS . In such when a shorter person uses the array for example to relieve lower back pain the array is positioned in the mattress as shown in and the active LEDS are positioned toward the head of the bed thereby aligning with the shorter person s lower back. Alternately as shown in when a taller person uses the array for example to relieve lower back pain the array is turned 180 degrees within the mattress so that the active LEDS are positioned away from the head of the bed thereby aligning with the taller person s lower back.

Referring to a cross sectional view of the second embodiment is shown. In this view the blank insert is snuggly fit within the cavity e.g. a tight fit limiting or reducing movement sliding along any axis . In some embodiments a hole or slot connects the cavity with the bottom of the furniture mattress for running cables see .

Referring to a second cross sectional view of the second embodiment is shown. In this view the array of LEDS is snuggly fit within the cavity e.g. a tight fit limiting or reducing movement sliding along any axis . In some embodiments an electrical cable from the LEDS to a controller and or power supply see exits through the hole or slot connects the cavity with the bottom of the furniture mattress for running cables .

Referring to a third cross sectional view of the second embodiment is shown. In this view the array of LEDS is positioned within the cavity . In some embodiments an electrical cable from the LEDS to a controller and or power supply see exits through the hole or slot that connects the cavity with the bottom of the furniture mattress for running cables . In this view a cloth cover is positioned over the array of LEDS . Studies have shown that by increasing the power and or duration of activity of the LEDS sufficient heat and light penetrate layers of cloth such as sheets bedding etc and provide relief for pain such as lower back pain. Therefore as shown in the sheet for example covers the LEDS and the user positions their body such that the area in pain rests on top of the sheet where the LEDS lay beneath.

Referring to a perspective view of a third embodiment is shown. In this embodiment a set of LEDS are integrated directly into furniture mattress . The LEDS are fitted into holes or apertures of the mattress and are in a fixed position relative to the head of the mattress. Again as in it is anticipated that in some embodiments a cloth cover is positioned over the LEDS and the power and or duration of activity of the LEDS is increased providing sufficient heat and light to penetrate the layers of cloth such as sheets bedding etc and provide relief for pain such as lower back pain.

Referring to a first and second cross sectional view of the second embodiment in use is shown. In this the array of LEDS is populated with LEDS towards one end of the array and the array is passive at the opposite end. In such when a shorter person uses the array for example to relieve lower back pain the array is positioned in the mattress as shown in and the active LEDS are positioned toward the head of the bed thereby aligning with the shorter person s lower back. Alternately as shown in when a taller person uses the array for example to relieve lower back pain the array is positioned in the mattress so that the active LEDS are positioned away from the head of the bed thereby aligning with the taller person s lower back.

Referring to perspective views of a fourth embodiment is shown. In this embodiment an array of LEDS and power sources are integrated into a wearable device that attaches to a person s body with a belt and fastener . The belt and fastener are any such device as known in the industry and the exemplary hook and loop fastener is one possible fastener. Other belt lengths widths and shapes are anticipated as well as other fasteners such as buckles buttons snaps etc.

In some embodiments the array of LEDS and power sources e.g. batteries are covered with a cloth material such as nylon silk polyester cotton etc. As previously discussed the power and or duration of activity of the LEDS is are increased providing sufficient heat and light to penetrate the layer of cloth to provide relief for pain such as lower back pain as shown in . It is anticipated that the wearable device of this embodiment is adaptable in size and shape to be worn on other parts of the body such as feet ankles knees legs other areas of the back neck arms hands and head. By situating the power source e.g. batteries within the back area of the wearable device heat emitted from the batteries as they discharge provides additional heat to for example the person s back see .

Referring to a schematic view of an exemplary control system of all embodiments is shown. In this example each LED in the array is current limited by an individual resistor . To illuminate the LEDS a voltage is supplied by the controller and the value of the resistors determines the current flowing through each LED and hence the power output of each LED . The lower the resistance of each resistor the higher the power output of its corresponding LED . This is an example of how such LEDS are provided with a predetermined amount of power and other methods are well known using various combinations of LEDS connected in series and or parallel with various combinations of resistors or other current controlling devices. In some embodiments the current is directly controlled by the controller eliminating the need for resistors . Any known system for providing a controlled amount of power to the LEDS is anticipated here within.

As discussed previously in applications in which a cloth is situated between the user and the LEDS the power to the LEDS is increased to provide greater heat and light output to overcome the loss inserted by the cloth . This is accomplished in any way known in the industry including selecting lower resistance values of the resistors or increasing the voltage output of the controller etc.

The controller provides power to the LEDS during an active period. It is anticipated that the controller provide power to the LEDS for a pre determined period of time from minutes up to continuously as needed to address the user s specific pain. It is also anticipated that the controller provide any known sequencing of power levels and timing as needed to address the specific pain. For example for certain pain healing operations it is desired to alternate heat cool and the controller provides power for one period thereby providing heat and no or little power for another period thereby removing the heat. Additionally the controller in some embodiments provides pulse width modulation to control the power to the LEDS in which the greater the pulse width the greater the power supplied to the LEDS and the greater the light and heat intensity. In this embodiment the pulse width and frequency is either fixed or variable.

For completeness a power source is shown as known in the industry. Any known power source is anticipated including but not limited to a battery pack a rechargeable battery pack and a power supply such as a power brick for converting household electric power into a DC voltage.

Referring to a cutaway side plan view of an exemplary LED array control system of all embodiments is shown. In the preferred embodiment the LEDS are held in holes of a material preferably a soft sponge like material that also conducts heat to provide a more even heat should one LED heat more than another LED . The LEDs are physically and electrically interfaced to a circuit board situated between the belt and the LEDs material . Other components such as the controller and resistors if needed are preferably mounted on the circuit board . Also connected to the circuit board is a power switch for signaling the controller to enter an operating mode. Responsive to the user operating the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS . For example after the user operates the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS for a fixed amount of time and then removes power to the LEDS for another fixed amount of time repeating this sequence for a pre determined number of cycles. Although any switch is anticipated a proximity switch is preferred to reduce the chance of the user inadvertently tripping the switch while wearing the belt . The proximity switch preferably has hysteresis requiring the user to touch the proximity switch for a time period before the operating mode is entered and requiring the user to again touch the proximity switch for a time period before shutting off power. To inform the user that the operating mode has been entered or the system is shut off a sounder see is provided in some embodiments preferably emitting one sound or sequence for entering the operating mode and another for power off.

In some embodiments the LEDS and power sources not visible in are covered with a cloth material such as nylon silk polyester cotton etc. As previously discussed the power and or duration of activity of the LEDS is are increased providing sufficient heat and light to penetrate the layer of cloth to provide relief for pain such as lower back pain. It is anticipated that the wearable device of this embodiment is adaptable in size and shape to be worn on other parts of the body such as feet ankles knees legs other areas of the back neck arms hands and head. By situating the power source e.g. batteries within the back area of the wearable device heat emitted from the batteries as they discharge provides additional heat to for example the person s back see .

Referring to a top plan view of an exemplary LED array control system of all embodiments is shown. In the preferred embodiment the LEDS are held in holes of a material preferably a soft sponge like material that also conducts heat to provide a more even heat should one LED heat more than another LED . The LEDs are physically and electrically interfaced to a circuit board situated between the belt and the LEDs material . Other components such as the controller and resistors if needed are preferably mounted on the circuit board . The power source e.g. batteries is electrically connected to the circuit board the power source e.g. batteries is situated within the back area of the wearable device . In some embodiments the power source is located near the circuit board so that as the batteries discharge heat emitted provides additional heat to for example the person s back see .

Also connected to the circuit board is a power switch for signaling the controller to enter an operating mode. Responsive to the user operating the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS . For example after the user operates the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS for a fixed amount of time and then removes power to the LEDS for another fixed amount of time repeating this sequence for a pre determined number of cycles. Although any switch is anticipated a proximity switch is preferred to reduce the chance of the user inadvertently tripping the switch while wearing the belt . The proximity switch preferably has hysteresis requiring the user to touch the proximity switch for a time period before the operating mode is entered and requiring the user to again touch the proximity switch for a time period before shutting off power. To inform the user that the operating mode has been entered or the system is shut off a sounder see is provided in some embodiments preferably emitting one sound or sequence for entering the operating mode and another for power off.

The power source is charged through a power connector that is connected to an external power source not shown such as a wall wart as known in the industry.

Referring to a cutaway side plan view of an exemplary LED array control system of the first embodiment is shown. In the preferred implementation the LEDS are held in holes of a material preferably a soft sponge like material that also conducts heat to provide a more even heat should one LED heat more than another LED . The LEDs are physically and electrically interfaced to a circuit board . Other components such as the controller and resistors if needed are preferably mounted on the circuit board . Also connected to the circuit board is a power switch for signaling the controller to enter an operating mode. Responsive to the user operating the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS . For example after the user operates the power switch the controller provides power to the LEDS for a fixed amount of time and then removes power to the LEDS for another fixed amount of time repeating this sequence for a pre determined number of cycles. Although any switch is anticipated a proximity switch is preferred to reduce the chance of the user inadvertently tripping the switch while wearing the belt . The proximity switch preferably has hysteresis requiring the user to touch the proximity switch for a time period before the operating mode is entered and requiring the user to again touch the proximity switch for a time period before shutting off power. To inform the user that the operating mode has been entered or the system is shut off a sounder see is provided in some embodiments preferably emitting one sound or sequence for entering the operating mode and another for power off.

In some embodiments the LEDS and electronics are enclosed within a cloth material such as nylon silk polyester cotton etc. As previously discussed the power and or duration of activity of the LEDS is are increased providing sufficient heat and light to penetrate the layer of cloth to provide relief for pain such as lower back pain. It is anticipated that any number of LEDS be present to cover a suitable area of the user s body. In some embodiments power is provided by a power cable connected to an external power source such as a power brick or wall wart as known in the industry.

Equivalent elements can be substituted for the ones set forth above such that they perform in substantially the same manner in substantially the same way for achieving substantially the same result.

It is believed that the system and method and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description. It is also believed that it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely exemplary and explanatory embodiment thereof. It is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

