---

title: Providing presentations in a videoconference
abstract: System and method for performing a videoconference. One or more computers are utilized to schedule a videoconference call in response to user input requesting the videoconference call, where the user input further specifies presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call. The presentation materials are uploaded to a content server computer, and the videoconference call is conducted between a plurality of participants at respective participant locations, where the videoconference call is performed using a plurality of videoconferencing endpoints at respective ones of the participant locations, and where the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints are coupled to the content server computer over a network. During the videoconference call, the presentation materials are provided to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server computer over the network, where the provided presentation materials are presented by each videoconferencing endpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08456509&OS=08456509&RS=08456509
owner: LifeSize Communications, Inc.
number: 08456509
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100108
---
The present invention relates generally to videoconferencing and more specifically to a method for providing presentations in a videoconference call.

Videoconferencing may be used to allow two or more participants at remote locations to communicate using both video and audio. Each participant location may include a videoconferencing system for video audio communication with other participants which may be referred to as an endpoint. For example each videoconferencing system may include a camera and microphone to collect video and audio from a first or local participant to send to other remote participant s as well as a display and speaker s to reproduce video and audio received from one or more remote participants. In any videoconference there can be endpoints in any of various parts of the world and via different networks.

In many videoconferences a user may wish to show a presentation to the videoconference participants. Presently any individual can share presentations on videoconferencing systems that are H.239 compliant. H.239 refers to a multimedia communications protocol that facilitates use of multiple video channels and which covers both H.323 and BFCP Binary Flow Control Protocol so that in addition to conference video presentation materials may also be displayed to participants. Typically the presentation feed is available on a separate channel and can be viewed by all the participants of the conference. The presentation materials generally reside on the computer e.g. laptop computer of the individual presenter participant and the screen output of the computer is fed into the videoconferencing system for all participants of the conference to view the material.

However the requirement that a computer e.g. a laptop be provided e.g. at the presenter s endpoint location to facilitate presentation of the presentation materials is onerous and expensive and may limit the functionality of the videoconferencing system with respect to other participants of the videoconference call.

Various embodiments are presented of a system and method for providing a presentation in a videoconference call.

A videoconference call may be scheduled in response to user input requesting the videoconference call e.g. from a host participant or meeting organizer The user input may further specify presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call. Thus in one embodiment as part of the request the user input of the host participant may specify the presentation materials e.g. as an attachment where the presentation materials are to be presented during the requested videoconference call. For example as part of creating the meeting request e.g. using videoconference management software such as a videoconference management suite or within scheduling software integrated with the management suite all of which may be referred to generally as a management server or program the host participant may attach or otherwise specify one or more documents that she wishes to present during the meeting to the request. The request may be transmitted over a network to a server computer e.g. to the management server or program e.g. scheduling software in a control management suite executing on the server computer which in one embodiment may include or be coupled to a content server e.g. a computer or mass storage device. The meeting request may then be processed by the management server.

The presentation materials may be uploaded to a content server computer. For example in one embodiment the management server or program may receive the presentation materials via the host participant s request and store the presentation materials on the content server computer or as noted above may receive information from the host indicating where the materials may be found and may retrieve them accordingly. Thus the first videoconferencing endpoint may be configured to schedule a videoconference call with the management server in response to user input requesting the videoconference call where the user input further specifies presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call and the presentation materials may be uploaded to the content server computer by the management server in response to the scheduling. Alternatively the management server may act as the content server.

The videoconference call may then be conducted between a plurality of participants at respective participant locations per the above scheduling. The videoconference call may be performed using a plurality of videoconferencing endpoints at respective ones of the plurality of participant locations. Thus each participant location may include a respective endpoint or conferencing unit as described below in more detail. Each endpoint may be used by a respective participant to perform or implement the conference call e.g. by providing and receiving conference communication for each participant. Thus the plurality of endpoints may be comprised in a videoconferencing system that may facilitate or implement videoconferencing calls among respective participants at respective participant locations.

During the videoconference call the presentation materials may be provided or transmitted e.g. streamed to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server computer over the network possibly under control of the management server or program and may be presented by each videoconferencing endpoint e.g. to their respective participants. In other words each videoconferencing endpoint may be configured to receive the presentation materials provided e.g. streamed from the content server computer directly or indirectly during the videoconference call and present the provided e.g. streamed presentation materials also during the call .

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Note that the headings are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit or interpret the description or claims. Furthermore note that the word may is used throughout this application in a permissive sense i.e. having the potential to being able to not a mandatory sense i.e. must . The term include and derivations thereof mean including but not limited to . The term coupled means directly or indirectly connected .

U.S. patent application titled Video Conferencing System Transcoder Ser. No. 11 252 238 which was filed Oct. 17 2005 whose inventors are Michael L. Kenoyer and Michael V. Jenkins is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein.

U.S. patent application titled Email Based Remote Management of Network Connected Entities Ser. No. 12 389 902 which was filed Feb. 20 2009 whose inventors are Gautam Khot Prithvi Ranganath Raghuram Belur and Sandeep Lakshmipathy.

In some embodiments the videoconferencing endpoint may include a camera e.g. an HD camera for acquiring images of the participant e.g. of participant . Other cameras are also contemplated. The endpoint may also include display e.g. an HDTV display . Images acquired by the camera may be displayed locally on the display and or may be encoded and transmitted to other endpoints at other participant locations in the videoconference.

The endpoint may further include one or more input devices such as the computer keyboard or a mouse not shown and in some embodiments a remote control . In some embodiments the one or more input devices may be used for the videoconferencing system and or may be used for one or more other computer systems at the participant location as desired.

The endpoint may also include a sound system . The sound system may include multiple speakers including left speakers center speaker and right speakers . Other numbers of speakers and other speaker configurations may also be used. The videoconferencing system may also use one or more speakerphones which may be daisy chained together.

In some embodiments the videoconferencing system components e.g. the camera display sound system and speakerphones may be coupled to a system codec . The system codec may be placed on a desk or on a floor. Other placements are also contemplated. The system codec may receive audio and or video data from a network such as a LAN local area network or the Internet. The system codec may send the audio to the speakerphone and or sound system and the video to the display . The received video may be HD video that is displayed on the HD display. The system codec may also receive video data from the camera and audio data from the speakerphones and transmit the video and or audio data over the network to another conferencing system. The conferencing system may be controlled by a participant or user through the user input components e.g. buttons on the speakerphones and or input devices such as the keyboard and or the remote control . Other system interfaces may also be used.

In various embodiments a codec may implement a real time transmission protocol. In some embodiments a codec short for compressor decompressor may comprise any system and or method for encoding and or decoding e.g. compressing and decompressing data e.g. audio and or video data . For example communication applications may use codecs for encoding video and audio for transmission across networks including compression and packetization. Codecs may also be used to convert an analog signal to a digital signal for transmitting over various digital networks e.g. network PSTN the Internet etc. and to convert a received digital signal to an analog signal. In various embodiments codecs may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of both. Some codecs for computer video and or audio may include MPEG Indeo and Cinepak among others.

In some embodiments the videoconferencing system may be designed to operate with normal display or high definition HD display capabilities. The videoconferencing system may operate with network infrastructures that support T capabilities or less e.g. 1.5 mega bits per second or less in one embodiment and 2 mega bits per second in other embodiments.

Note that the videoconferencing system s or endpoints described herein may be dedicated videoconferencing systems i.e. whose purpose is to provide videoconferencing or general purpose computers e.g. IBM compatible PC Mac etc. executing videoconferencing software e.g. a general purpose computer for using user applications one of which performs videoconferencing . A dedicated videoconferencing system may be designed specifically for videoconferencing and may not be used as a general purpose computing platform for example the dedicated videoconferencing system may execute an operating system which may be typically streamlined or locked down to run one or more applications to provide videoconferencing e.g. for a conference room of a company. In other embodiments the videoconferencing system may be a general use computer e.g. a typical computer system which may be used by the general public or a high end computer system used by corporations which can execute a plurality of third party applications one of which provides videoconferencing capabilities. Videoconferencing systems may be complex such as the videoconferencing system shown in or simple e.g. a user computer system with a video camera input devices microphone and or speakers such as the videoconferencing system of . Thus references to videoconferencing systems endpoints etc. herein may refer to general computer systems which execute videoconferencing applications or dedicated videoconferencing systems. Note further that references to the videoconferencing systems performing actions may refer to the videoconferencing application s executed by the videoconferencing systems performing the actions i.e. being executed to perform the actions .

The videoconferencing system may execute various videoconferencing application software that presents a graphical user interface GUI on the display . The GUI may be used to present an address book contact list list of previous callees call list and or other information indicating other videoconferencing systems that the user may desire to call to conduct a videoconference.

Note that the videoconferencing system shown in may be configured or modified to be an audioconferencing system. The audioconferencing system for example may simply include speakerphones although additional components may also be present. Additionally note that any reference to a conferencing system or conferencing systems may refer to videoconferencing systems audioconferencing systems e.g. teleconferencing systems or web conferencing systems. For simplicity and clarity the techniques disclosed herein are primarily described in terms of videoconferencing although it should be noted that the techniques may be equally applicable to teleconferencing and or web conferencing. Moreover the term videoconferencing is considered to be a superset of teleconferencing and web conferencing and so the below descriptions directed to videoconferencing inherently include teleconferencing and web conferencing as well. Thus for example in embodiments one or more participants may join the videoconference over the web by communicatively coupling to the host codec endpoint of the videoconference. Similarly audio only participants may join in via dialing a PSTN public switched telephone network call into the ongoing videoconference call where they may only hear the audio of the ongoing videoconference call.

Thus in some embodiments the videoconferencing endpoint or CU e.g. of or may be configured with program instructions i.e. stored in a memory of the endpoint that may be executable by a processor of the endpoint to perform or implement at least a portion of the functionality and techniques disclosed herein as will be described in detail below.

As also shown in this embodiment at least one server computer may be communicatively connected to CU A and thereby coupled to all of the CUs although in various other embodiments the at least one server computer may be coupled to the CUs via other means e.g. via a network such as a LAN or the Internet to which the CUs are themselves coupled or via any of the CUs in the system. The server s possibly in conjunction with one or more of the endpoints may be configured to perform or implement at least a portion of the techniques disclosed herein as will be described in more detail below. In some embodiments the at least one server computer may be or include multiple server computers e.g. a content server computer coupled to a management server computer e.g. that executes a management program or programs. In other embodiments the at least one server computer may be a single computer e.g. that includes or operates as both a content server and a management server.

As with the system of in some embodiments the server s may be or include or be included in an endpoint or CU as desired or may be distributed across multiple endpoints CUs .

Below are described various techniques for conducting a videoconference call. In some embodiments the techniques disclosed herein may facilitate presenters of an audio video feed e.g. an H239 feed to initiate and conduct a videoconference call i.e. meeting without having to provide an additional computer such as a laptop computer and yet be able to present the desired presentation materials e.g. slides documents video audio spreadsheets etc. among others to the rest of the participants. At the time of scheduling the meeting host e.g. organizer may attach or otherwise specify the presentation materials e.g. documents or any other type of files comprising the materials she wishes to present during the meeting as part of creating a videoconference meeting request via management e.g. scheduling software. The management software may upload the presentation materials to a secure content server for access during the meeting. At the start of the meeting a connection may be established by the management software to the content server to provide e.g. stream the presentation materials to the meeting host endpoint so that the host or other participant can access browse and present the presentation materials to rest of the participants and or to each of the participants directly.

Note that the term streaming generally refers to a method for multi media data delivery where the data are substantially constantly received by and presented to a user e.g. where the data are provided or delivered by a streaming provider over a network. While in some embodiments of the techniques disclosed herein the presentation materials may be streamed to the participants more generally the presentation materials may be provided for presentation in any manner desired. Thus the term providing is intended to include but not be limited to streaming.

In a videoconference call may be scheduled in response to user input requesting the videoconference call. The user input may further specify presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call.

Thus in one embodiment as part of the request the user input of the host participant may further specify the presentation materials e.g. as an attachment where the presentation materials are to be presented during the requested videoconference call. For example as part of creating the meeting request e.g. using videoconference management software such as a videoconference management suite or within scheduling software integrated with the management suite all of which may be referred to generally as the management server the host participant may attach or otherwise specify one or more documents that she wishes to present during the meeting to the request. The request may be transmitted over a network to a server computer e.g. to the management server or program e.g. scheduling software in a control management suite executing on the server computer which in one embodiment may include or be coupled to a content server e.g. a computer or mass storage device. The meeting request may then be processed by the management server.

As indicated in other e.g. invited participants may also provide user input e.g. via respective computer systems also possibly endpoints indicating participation in the videoconference call. For example the videoconference request by the host participant may include invitations to the other participants or may invoke such invitations by the management server to which the participants may respond e.g. by accepting or declining the invitation. The management server may interpret the request from the meeting organizer i.e. host participant and may schedule a videoconference to start at the desired time among the desired participants. In one embodiment the management server may detect or observe the attachment that has been sent as part of the meeting schedule request and may understand it to be the presentation materials that the host wishes to present during the meeting duration. Note that in other embodiments the host may not actually attach the presentation materials but may instead specify where the materials may be found e.g. via a URI universal resource identifier file path etc. and the management server may retrieve the presentation materials from the specified location.

In the presentation materials may be uploaded to a content server computer. For example in one embodiment the management server or program may receive the presentation materials via the host participant s request and store the presentation materials on the content server computer or as noted above may receive information from the host indicating where the materials may be found and may retrieve them accordingly. Thus the first videoconferencing endpoint may be configured to schedule a videoconference call with the management server in response to user input requesting the videoconference call where the user input further specifies presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call and the presentation materials may be uploaded to the content server computer by the management server in response to the scheduling.

As also indicates in some embodiments in addition to scheduling the videoconference call in response to the request the management server may be further configured to reserve resources for conducting the videoconference call e.g. endpoints or codecs and a multipoint control unit MCU and so forth. In one embodiment the management server may also reserve meeting or video conference rooms as desired e.g. as part of reserving the endpoints.

Note that the communication of scheduling information may be performed in any of various ways. For example in one embodiment every endpoint or codec may be assigned a mailbox. The host participant may send invitation emails or proposed videoconference schedules to proposed participants via these respective mailboxes. Emails schedules sent to this mailbox may be forwarded to a mailbox of the management server which may process the schedules and determine which endpoints are to participate in the videoconference call. Thus for example in some embodiments each proposed participant e.g. each person that has been invited to participate in the videoconference call or that has scheduled their participation may be provided with respective copies of the presentation materials as attachments to these emails. For more details regarding use of endpoint mailboxes please see U.S. patent application Ser. No. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 389 902 titled Email Based Remote Management of Network Connected Entities which was incorporated by reference above. However it should be noted that any other means for communicating and processing the schedule information may be used as desired.

In the videoconference call may be conducted between a plurality of participants at respective participant locations per the scheduling of . The videoconference call may be performed using a plurality of videoconferencing endpoints at respective ones of the plurality of participant locations. Thus each participant location may include a respective endpoint or conferencing unit such as those described above with reference to . Each endpoint may be used by a respective participant to perform or implement the conference call e.g. by providing and receiving conference communication for each participant. Thus the plurality of endpoints may be comprised in a videoconferencing system that may facilitate or implement videoconferencing calls among respective participants at respective participant locations.

Note further that in some embodiments the plurality of endpoints or CUs may itself be a subset of a larger plurality of endpoints. For example in addition to the plurality of endpoints the videoconferencing system may include or be coupled to additional endpoints that may be operable to participate in the videoconference call but which may not be configured to perform some of the functionality or techniques disclosed herein.

Moreover in some embodiments one or more participants and corresponding endpoints in the videoconferencing call may operate as web conferencing participants endpoints or as teleconferencing participants endpoints as indicated above. For example in a teleconference embodiment a participant endpoint may participate in the videoconference call via audio and may not include video information. Likewise regarding web conferencing participants endpoints. In other words some of the participants endpoints may utilize only a subset of the videoconferencing data provided e.g. streamed.

As indicated in during the videoconference call the presentation materials may be provided e.g. streamed to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server computer over the network possibly under control of the management server or program and may be presented by each videoconferencing endpoint e.g. to their respective participants. In other words each videoconferencing endpoint may be configured to receive the presentation materials provided by e.g. streamed from the content server computer during the videoconference call and present the presentation materials also during the call .

Note that in various embodiments the management and content server functionality may be implemented in any of various ways. For example as described above in one embodiment the scheduling uploading and conducting may be performed by a management server e.g. the management server of . The management server may be implemented on or included in the content server computer or on a separate server computer as desired. More generally in various embodiments the management server and the content server may be implemented on one or more server computers and or one or more storage devices as desired. Thus in one exemplary embodiment the management server may be included on the content server computer. In another embodiment the content server may be implemented on or included in a management server computer. In other embodiments the management server and the content server may each be implemented on respective server computers. In yet further exemplary embodiments the content server computer may host the management server and may include or be coupled to one or more storage devices that store the presentation materials e.g. in the form of a storage area network SAN .

Depending on the particular architecture of the system the uploading of the presentation materials and or the provision e.g. streaming of the presentation materials during the videoconference call may be performed in various ways.

For example in one embodiment providing e.g. streaming the presentation materials from the content server computer may include providing the presentation materials directly to a first videoconferencing endpoint of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints e.g. the host participant s endpoint from the content server over the network and providing the presentation materials from the first videoconferencing endpoint to each of the other videoconferencing endpoints over the network.

Such an embodiment is shown in where the content server which may be implemented on a content server computer and or a management server computer possibly under control of the management server provides content specifically the presentation materials to the host endpoint or codec which then provides the presentation materials to each of the other participant s endpoints and respectively generally under the control of the host participant. As indicates during the videoconference call the presentation materials may be presented by each endpoint e.g. may be displayed on a display device of each respective endpoint for viewing by the corresponding participants audibly presented via speakers and so forth. Note that the presentation of the presentation materials may be in addition to communication content to and from the endpoints e.g. voices and images of the videoconference participants. For example at each endpoint the images of the presentation materials may be displayed in a separate window from images of the other participants.

Alternatively in some embodiments providing the presentation materials from the content server computer may include providing the presentation materials directly to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server over the network.

In embodiments where the management server is included on a management server computer coupled to the content server computer uploading the presentation materials to the content server computer may include uploading the presentation materials to the management server computer and transferring the presentation materials from the management server computer to the content server computer. Similarly in some such embodiments providing the presentation materials from the content server computer may include providing the presentation materials from the content server computer to the management server computer and providing the presentation materials from the management server computer to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints directly.

Alternatively providing the presentation materials from the content server computer may include providing the presentation materials from the content server computer to the management server computer providing the presentation materials to a first videoconferencing endpoint of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the management server computer over the network and providing the presentation materials from the first videoconferencing endpoint to each of the other videoconferencing endpoints over the network.

In one embodiment the method may include receiving one or more commands from a first videoconferencing endpoint of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints e.g. the host participant s endpoint regarding browsing or presentation of the presentation materials in response to user input to the first videoconferencing endpoint indicating the one or more commands where the providing is performed in accordance with the one or more commands. Said another way one or more of the videoconferencing endpoints may be configured to receive user input indicating one or more commands regarding browsing or presentation of the presentation materials and may send the one or more commands to the content server computer which may provide e.g. stream the presentation materials in accordance with the one or more commands.

As these figures also indicate in some embodiments the user input to the first videoconferencing endpoint may be received from the user via a remote control . Thus for example the host participant may specify one or more operations via the remote control which may accordingly transmit commands to the host participant s endpoint which may in turn send the commands to the content server to control browsing and or presentation of the presentation materials. For example commands may be sent from the videoconferencing remote or endpoint codec to control page up page down of the presentation start stop pause of video content etc. thereby controlling the flow of the presentation.

Note that the content server computer may respond to such commands directly or under the control of the management server . In other words in some embodiments the management server may be configured to receive the one or more commands from the first videoconferencing endpoint and may control the providing of the presentation materials to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server computer in accordance with the one or more commands. Similarly in embodiments where the management server is implemented on a separate server computer from the content server receiving the one or more commands from the first videoconferencing endpoint may include a management server computer receiving the one or more commands from the first e.g. host videoconferencing endpoint and the content server receiving the one or more commands from the management server computer. More generally one or more of the videoconferencing endpoints may be configured to receive user input indicating one or more commands regarding browsing or presentation of the presentation materials and may send the one or more commands to the management server computer. The content server computer may receive the commands from the management server computer and provide the presentation materials accordingly.

Moreover in some embodiments further presentation materials may be provided to the content server computer by one or more others of the participants for presentation during the videoconference call. For example the additional presentation materials may be uploaded to the content server computer in response to receiving user input from a participant corresponding to another videoconferencing endpoint other than the host or first endpoint specifying additional presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call. During the videoconference call the additional presentation materials may be provided to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints from the content server.

Additionally in some embodiments one or more further commands may be received from another videoconferencing endpoint of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints regarding browsing or presentation of the presentation materials in response to user input to the other videoconferencing endpoint indicating the one or more further commands. During the videoconference call the presentation materials may be provided to one or more of the videoconferencing endpoints including the other videoconferencing endpoint in accordance with the one or more further commands. In other words in some embodiments participants other than the host participant meeting organizer may have some control over the presentation or browsing of the presentation materials to or by themselves and or the other participants. Thus for example one of the other participants may send commands to browse the materials stored on the content server e.g. to preview materials yet to be presented to review materials already presented or to invoke control presentation of additional materials to all participants in the call. Thus in some embodiments the browsing may be invoked or performed independently e.g. without cooperation from the hosting participant endpoint by a non hosting participant e.g. via that participant s endpoint.

In a similar vein in one embodiment providing the presentation materials to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints may be initiated in response to respective user input received from each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints. In other words each participant may initiate providing of the content to his or her endpoint from the content server. In such cases the providing may further include synchronizing said providing the presentation materials to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints. As one example if a participant were to join the videoconference call late upon joining the call the content server possibly under control of the management server may begin providing the presentation materials from the current position in the data transmission e.g. the data stream e.g. as opposed to the beginning In one embodiment the latecomer may be able to quickly review the already presented materials e.g. at double speed and thereby catch up with the presentation in progress.

As mentioned above in some embodiments the providing may be performed in accordance with the H239 protocol although it should be noted that any other protocols may be used as desired. Moreover in various embodiments the various method elements discussed above e.g. the scheduling receiving commands and providing of the presentation materials may be implemented by the content server and or the management server and may be implemented on a single server computer or distributed across multiple computers as desired. For example in one embodiment the presentation materials may be uploaded to and provided e.g. streamed from an external website accessible to the management server via the Internet e.g. any content upload website that exposes a basic set of application programming interfaces APIs to facilitate content browsing and providing e.g. streaming .

More generally for example in one embodiment the above method may be performed by or via a system that includes at least one server computer including a processor and a memory coupled to the processor as well as a plurality of videoconferencing endpoints each including a respective processor and a respective memory coupled to the respective processor. Each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints may be coupled to the at least one server computer over a network where the memory of each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints stores program instructions executable by the processor of the videoconferencing endpoint to request a videoconference call with the at least one server in response to user input where the user input further specifies presentation materials for presentation during the videoconference call. The memory of the at least one server computer may store program instructions executable by the processor of the server computer to schedule the videoconference call in response to the request upload the presentation materials in response to said scheduling and conduct the videoconference call between the plurality of participants including providing the presentation materials to each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints. The memory of each of the plurality of videoconferencing endpoints may further store program instructions executable by the processor of the videoconferencing endpoint to establish a connection with the at least one server computer over the network to participate in the videoconference call in response to user input and during the videoconference call receive and present the presentation materials provided from the at least one server computer.

Thus some embodiments of the above system and method may facilitate a presenter of a videoconference feed e.g. an H239 feed to walk into a videoconference meeting without having to provide a laptop computer or other auxiliary computer and yet be able to present the desired slides documents videos etc. to the rest of the participants. At the time of scheduling the meeting host may attach the documents or files containing content that she wishes to present during the meeting as part of creating a videoconference meeting request in management scheduling software. The management software may upload the file s to a secure content server for access during the meeting. At the start of the meeting a connection may be established by the management software server to the content server to provide the content presentation materials to the meeting host endpoint so that the host can access browse and present the materials to rest of the remote parties.

The following describes various other exemplary embodiments of the systems and techniques discussed above and some benefits thereof although it should be noted that the embodiments described are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the systems and methods to any particular form function or appearance.

In one embodiment the uploaded presentation materials may be protected by security measures e.g. a password e.g. by a personal identification number PIN which must be entered in order to access provide the content presentation materials from the content server computer e.g. website . Thus upon uploading the materials the host participant or organizer may be notified of the details of the upload and the PIN needed to access the materials. The host participant may be informed that the presentation will be ready to start when she walks into the meeting room at the scheduled time of the meeting. Note that in various embodiments the PIN may apply generally to accessing the content server to each file document or set of materials on the content server and or to access by a specified person as desired. Note further that in other embodiments any type of security means desired may be used to secure the presentation materials on the content server computer.

The following is directed to an example videoconference among participants in three video rooms although the techniques disclosed are applicable in a general sense as well. When the scheduled meeting time arrives the management server may establish a video conference meeting connection between the endpoints e.g. video rooms and . In one embodiment the management server may open a presentation channel or stream by connecting to the content server and requesting that the presentation materials be provided to the video room endpoint where the presenter host participant will be to present the materials and possibly the other endpoints as well .

The host participant or organizer may start the presentation by entering the PIN number and then all the connected participants may start receiving the content e.g. the content stream from the host endpoint. In another approach the participants endpoints of video rooms and may independently request presentation data e.g. data streams from the content server in which case the management and or content server may implement synchronization of the data transmission e.g. of the content streams. Thus since the presentation materials are securely stored on the content server the presentation materials may be accessible to all of the participants e.g. via the PIN while being secure from unauthorized access.

The host participant or organizer or current presenter may control the presentation of the materials e.g. the movement of slides presentation of documents etc. via the endpoint keyboard mouse remote control or touch panel among other input devices which may translate into or invoke commands for the remote content server to present the materials as desired e.g. to proceed through document pages slides videos etc. accordingly. For example key presses on a remote or touch panel may translate into web services API calls exposed by the content server to access or control presentation of the materials. Thus in some embodiments the host participant or current presenter may use a remote control and control the flow of the presentation during the meeting.

As indicated above in some embodiments if desired the host participant may grant remote browsing of content to the other participants e.g. to participants in video rooms and . For example if the other participants endpoints are fetching the content directly from the content server instead of from the endpoint of the presenter the host endpoint they may issue commands to the content server to control browsing and or presentation of the materials.

In one embodiment if the host participant organizer or one of the other participants wishes to present additional presentation materials e.g. from a laptop computer an option may be provided to the participant whereby the participant may choose the source of the feed to present in the meeting. Thus the source of presentation materials during the videoconference call may not be limited to the content server. In this way additional materials may be introduced to the meeting ad hoc and from alternate sources e.g. from an external or internal content website. Alternatively participants may be given the option to upload additional materials e.g. from any of these alternate sources to the content server e.g. before or during the videoconference call where the additional materials may then be provided as desired from the content server.

In some embodiments each participant may be able to browse a list of documents or other presentation materials uploaded either as part of the original meeting request or subsequently e.g. possibly as part of their responses to the request to determine which materials to use as the source for the presentation. In other words a participant may add additional presentation materials for use in the meeting even if they were not the person who scheduled the meeting. Thus an invited videoconference participant may respond to the meeting request or invitation or directly to the management server adding additional materials that she may wish to present during the meeting. Thus the host or meeting organizer alone need not be responsible for providing all presentation materials any or all participants may send in or otherwise provide access to their respective presentation materials such that the materials are ready for presentation when the meeting begins. In this way multiple presentations presentation materials possibly provided by multiple users may be shared or presented during the meeting.

As noted above in one embodiment the host participant and possibly others of the participants may control and or navigate or browse content on the content server computer using an endpoint remote control thus obviating any need for a laptop computer for the meeting. For example presentation materials may be added as part of the attachment or location specification in the meeting schedule request or subsequently and may be selected from the content server using the remote via a list of available materials for the meeting presented to the host or other participant in a user interface of the participant s endpoint. In some embodiments remote videoconference participants may also browse the content of the content server e.g. if they are requesting or fetching presentation feeds from the content server. In this case an option may be provided to allow the remote participants to synchronize their data transmissions e.g. data streams with that of the current presenter so that after browsing back and forth within the currently presented materials or even other materials on the content server they can join or rejoin the current presentation at the current position in the presentation.

In one embodiment since all content may be present on the server or other data source all participants may be allowed to download presentation materials e.g. if desired by the presenter or host participant. In other words possibly at the discretion of the presenter of respective presentation materials the other participants may be allowed to download the respective presentation materials e.g. for current or future consideration. Moreover in some embodiments any presentation materials presented or not during a meeting may be available on the content server for future access if desired possibly subject to security measures e.g. a PIN.

Thus embodiments of the above described systems and methods may facilitate presentation of materials e.g. audio video documents slides and so forth without requiring the use of additional computers e.g. a laptop computer by the host or presenting participant.

Embodiments of a subset or all and portions or all of the above may be implemented by program instructions stored in a memory medium or carrier medium and executed by a processor. A memory medium may include any of various types of memory devices or storage devices. The term memory medium is intended to include an installation medium e.g. a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM floppy disks or tape device a computer system memory or random access memory such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Double Data Rate Random Access Memory DDR RAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM Extended Data Out Random Access Memory EDO RAM Rambus Random Access Memory RAM etc. or a non volatile memory such as a magnetic media e.g. a hard drive or optical storage. The memory medium may comprise other types of memory as well or combinations thereof. In addition the memory medium may be located in a first computer in which the programs are executed or may be located in a second different computer that connects to the first computer over a network such as the Internet. In the latter instance the second computer may provide program instructions to the first computer for execution. The term memory medium may include two or more memory mediums that may reside in different locations e.g. in different computers that are connected over a network.

In some embodiments a computer system e.g. endpoint and or server computer at a respective participant location may include a memory medium s on which one or more computer programs or software components according to one embodiment of the present invention may be stored. For example the memory medium may store one or more programs that are executable to perform the methods described herein. The memory medium may also store operating system software as well as other software for operation of the computer system.

Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention may be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as embodiments. Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein parts and processes may be reversed and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.

