---

title: Secure customer service proxy portal
abstract: A portal system for secure, aggregated and centralized management and access of disparate customer service and social networking environments is disclosed. A user interface provides multiple, parameter-based automated service scripts, each configured to utilize customer information. The scripts link to vendor-specific, scenario-specific, and social networking-specific interfaces that have common user interface elements. Shared and dedicated reverse automation gateways are configured to emulate the step-by-step self-service aspects of web sites and interactive voice response systems. The portal system eliminates or reduces inbound toll-free telephone charges for vendor contact centers and additionally links the same to social networking systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08755372&OS=08755372&RS=08755372
owner: Five9, Inc.
number: 08755372
owner_city: San Ramon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100426
---
This application relates to and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 173 048 filed Apr. 27 2009 and entitled Secure Customer Service Proxy Portal the entire content of which is wholly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to telecommunications systems and more particularly to automating and aggregating access to customer service entertainment and social networking systems.

Organizations with large constituencies often use customer service automation systems such as web sites with self service elements and interactive voice response systems as a means to reduce costs and reduce the need for live operators to handle customer inquiries. The same is true of social networking sites which rely heavily on automated email responders and other self service mechanisms to avoid direct live interaction with users.

It is typical for larger organizations to receive thousands of customer inquiries each day. These may come in the form of emails web site visits interactive voice response IVR dialogs or even face to face interaction in a retail scenario. It is typical for these larger organizations to spend millions of dollars each year on the development and maintenance of systems used to handle such customer interaction. For live interactions enterprises employ automatic call distributors ACDs or private branch exchanges PBXs and various computer telephony integration CTI techniques.

The popularity of the Internet ushered in many new ways of dealing with customers in an automated fashion including speech recognition systems SMS auto response functionality and automated email reminders. The uptake of these types of technologies has been aggressive. Whole divisions of certain large organizations are now dedicated to finding new and innovative ways to automate customer service oriented transactions. This partly due to live agent assisted transactions having high costs which can be as much as 15 to 20 dollars per transaction in overhead. Cast against the relatively low cost of 10 cents for an Internet based automated transaction companies scramble to cut costs with these automated systems. One of the contributing factors to the high costs is the 800 or toll free number carriage. Companies have not adapted to the newer Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP capabilities because it is difficult to link these capabilities to an 800 number. Furthermore customers do not have an incentive to use a VoIP based phone when the number they are calling is free to them. Nonetheless a means to eliminate 800 number charges so companies can take advantage of VoIP like technology has remained elusive.

The wholesale adoption of self service automation has created customer backlash. With the advent of the Internet and its ubiquity and easy access to competing vendors customers have become more fickle and apt to switch alliances with favored vendors at a moment s notice. Increasingly loyalty and high touch or more personalized customer service has become a competitive distinction amongst some companies. For example Southwest Airlines has sworn off automation in their call center thereby eliminating the use of IVR systems so that customers always get a live agent. Customer service industry analysts and researchers have been counseling companies with high transaction volumes to be careful about not over automating. 

Many attempts over the years have been made to soften self service forms of customer service such as IVR or make it easier to use. For example the Analog Display Services Interface ADSI standard was internationally adopted after it was issued by BellCore in December of 1992. In essence ADSI allows for Visual IVR by transmission of data mapped to voice based IVR into remote screen prompts for phones with soft key capability. The conventional analog for circa 1992 screen based phones is the Smart Phone.

Before the BellCore ADSI Visual IVR specification was finalized its use was promoted by sharing the information with various third parties. For example Dialogic put algorithms on its boards to communicate via ADSI to enable Visual IVR on phones from Nortel and others. Other popular IVR oriented suppliers quickly developed ADSI Visual IVR systems. In addition to Dialogic others such as Intervoice VoiceTek Fanstel and Nortel followed suit.

Other customer service systems besides Visual IVR are known in the art and companies such as Venturian Software NetCall Technologies Securicor Telecoms and Lansys have demonstrated Web based callback and ACD callback systems dating back to 1995. One noteworthy system is the CyberCall product from Venturian which was a major collaboration between these well known telecommunications companies at the time. CyberCall allowed any ACD to be hooked up to both web sites and CTI servers so consumers could ask for an automated call back to their regular phone line. Such Web based callback systems however did not see widespread deployment because it could only be activated from a website and could only be installed with substantial systems integration behind the enterprise firewall. There were many interdependencies to consider since enterprises oftentimes deployed a wide variety of disparate systems. In addition to difficulties associated with management the static nature of the user interface such as there being no customized menu choices ACD systems have only seen nominal adoption.

Customers often find automated systems to be useful especially if the business cannot respond to a customer service inquiry immediately because it was initiated after business hours. Many IVR systems for example are accessible 24 hours a day and able to dispense valuable information to users at any time. Likewise web sites are typically not bound by regular business hours.

From the user s perspective however there are two fundamental problems associated with automated systems. Most systems are poorly designed and can be very frustrating for the user to navigate. Indeed some customers are so loathe to use automated systems for this reason that they will instantly opt out of an automated system and demand live service. Of course the wholesale adoption of this practice is costly for companies that employ automation systems. Additionally users must traverse a veritable jungle of disparate varyingly complex automation systems. There is no single unifying experience for the customer. Each automated system is different with its own unique interface rules protocols and foibles. The modality of most approaches is singular that is interfaces for the user do not transcend modalities such as web phone smart phone IPTV and so forth.

These issues cause a great deal of frustration on the side of the user community or customers. On one hand companies have a need to differentiate from competitors but nonetheless have a compelling need to automate customer service in the interest of lowering costs. On the other hand customers have become disillusioned about automation and the ease with which a live service agent can be reached is a significant retention factor. Therefore customer loyalty remains ever elusive.

Accordingly it is desirable to achieve a balance between good personalized customer service and collecting a high volume of information through automation in order to save significant costs for each transaction.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the capability to create configure deploy and manage a library of reverse automation scripts and associated software that act as customer service concierge robots on behalf of customers is contemplated. These robots are programmed to wait in line fetch data and ask questions on behalf of customers so that customers can avoid having to use self service systems.

In another aspect the ability to place remote control gateways at a company location which use VoIP or other economical transmission methods to deliver customer communications directly to a company s contact center or IVR system whilst bypassing traditional toll free carriage vendors and associated charges is contemplated. Furthermore portal is understood to manage a plurality of remote automation gateways on behalf of many companies and to aggregate access to a plurality of companies under the same unified software control.

There is also contemplated a reverse automation of existing automated systems with a service creation environment that uses templates for creating customer emulator Scripts. Such reverse automation of existing automated systems eliminates the need for proprietary custom and costly systems integration. Instead the portal using its customer emulator scripts adapts to existing systems which has the effect of rapid development and inexpensive deployment for the company. This is advantageous for a number of reasons including lowering the cost to deploy access to the portal and offering a higher level of concierge service for the customer without having to change out the automation systems already in use.

Customers can configure their own preferences for communicating with both companies and social networking sites according the level of security and intimacy they wish to convey to the company or social site. In accordance with various embodiments this may involve the creation of multiple personas each linked to their own user. These personas have attributes including financial information and script preferences which allow the user to select the personality or attributes that are to be exposed on a transaction by transaction basis. Such personas appear in a unified user interface and eliminate the tedium of individual log ons and individual traversals of automation systems. The portal also provides a modality to associate one user persona with multiple companies so the same type of interaction can be launched for each company with one command. In another aspect of the present invention one user persona can be associated with multiple social networking sites in order to automate the posting of information on each site.

The secure customer service proxy portal may employ a media server function that in addition to emulating the actions of a human being and toll network in executing reverse automation scripts can present audio signals back to the user endpoint device such as telephones smart phones IPTV set top box and controllers etc. for the purposes of simulating call progress tones music on hold and announcements in lieu of the actual progress tones music on hold and announcements the automated service is producing for the reverse automation gateway to hear. This aspect involves the ability for the user to select the call progress and other status messages to be customized as per the persona of choice selected by the user.

The secure customer service proxy portal may be located either between or in a cable TV satellite or other high speed multimedia network and various company web sites and IVR systems. In the alternative it may be located between or on traditional networks and company web sites and IVR systems. It acts as a protocol converter and aggregator of disparate communications streams converging from disparate networks in order to unify and equalize the interface between multiple business entities and multiple customers.

The reverse automation gateways may be utilized as a shared network device such that each gateway holds and executes on reverse automation scripts on behalf of a plurality of companies automation systems. The reverse automation gateways can be deployed also as a dedicated device where it is co located with the company contact center or IVR system. Thus the 800 number toll free carriage charges may be bypassed. The reverse automation gateway may thus carry command and reply messages to and from the portal in order to execute on customer emulator scripts. Such command and reply messages may be carried over TCP IP. As such the Reverse Automation Gateways may also carry voice traffic and be connected directly to the company contact center providing a non 800 access directly to the system via the portal. In the same manner the secure customer service proxy portal in tandem with either hosted and or dedicated reverse automation gateways can be used to bypass the 800 toll network in setting up multi party conference calls by making less expensive outbound calls to pre programmed consumers and agents and further combining these calls together under the control of the reverse automation gateways.

A particular user s experience with the secure customer service proxy portal is personalized via the use of a common user interface aggregator matrix. The user interface aggregator matrix may be adapted to run on a variety of terminal devices including multimedia TV set top boxes web browsers and smart phones. The user is able to create a persona corral where each persona having its own unique attributes which allows the level of automation level of security and level of live interaction desired to be dictated by the user. In this fashion the user of the Secure Customer Service Proxy Portal is able to maintain a unified dignified automated and secure dialog with favored vendors and social networking sites.

The present invention will be best understood by reference to the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Common reference numerals are used throughout the drawings and the detailed description to indicate the same elements.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of certain embodiments of the present disclosure and is not intended to represent the only forms that may be developed or utilized. The description sets forth the various functions in connection with the illustrated embodiments but it is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions may be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure. It is further understood that the use of relational terms such as top and bottom first and second and the like are used solely to distinguish one entity from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities.

With reference to the block diagram of one embodiment of the secure customer service proxy portal interfaces between multiple telecommunications and computing networks. including but not limited to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN IP based networks such as the Internet mobile cellular networks and multimedia oriented high speed networks including but not limited to cable TV IP TV and satellite networks. The secure customer service proxy portal also interfaces between two general types of server equipment such as a contact center and associated interactive voice response IVR systems and web servers accessible to the internet or other networks. In addition the secure customer service proxy portal is designed to allow interaction with its services via a plurality of terminal devices with a common user interface.

A first type of telecommunications and computing network represented in is PSTN IP or Mobile Telephone Switch Office MTSO switching networks . This network represents the service side of the deployment where the network is arranged to host services and capabilities of vendors network providers contact centers customer service web sites and social networking sites. In addition another network depicted called PSTN IP or MTSO switching networks represents the user side of the deployment where terminal devices such as web browsers smart phones and telephones are used by customers to access the secure customer service proxy portal .

A second type of telecommunications and computing network represented in is cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia networks . This network represents an alternate service side of the deployment where the network is arranged to host services and capabilities of vendors network providers contact centers customer service web sites and social networking sites. In addition another group of cable TV IP TV satellite Multimedia Networks represents the user side of the deployment where terminal user devices such as multimedia and TV set top boxes and related controllers are used by customers to access the secure customer service proxy portal .

The telecommunications and computing networks shown in use a variety of commonly deployed transmission schemes and protocols. These networks can be used both for command and control and for the carriage of content. Command and control are signals that allow for the general collaboration between devices whereas content signals carry media such as telephone calls video email chats and Short Message Service SMS messages. Command and control and content signaling protocols and standards used on these networks include but are not limited to TCP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP File Transfer Protocol FTP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP User Datagram Protocol UDP Session Initiation Protocol SIP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP4 PCM TDM Pulse Code Modulation Time Division Multiplexing in T 1 signaling PRI Primary Rate and Integrated Services Digital Network telephone signaling 10 Gigabit Ethernet 3G networking and IPTV.

Additionally the block diagram of further illustrates the logical placement of the secure customer service proxy portal and its relationship with an application services and special resources array representing a network of resources databases and server applications that are part of the overall architecture. The secure customer service proxy portal and the application services and special resources array are connected by a telecommunications link . Through the telecommunications link the secure customer service proxy portal has access to its own application services and special resources. Through these telecommunications and computing networks the secure customer service proxy portal also has access to all four network types via access links and respectively.

The service proxy controller gets status messages from the media server and the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway . The messages derive from media server and the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway detection of events and processes on the network signaling interfaces.

For example the network signaling interfaces will both receive commands to execute on or send messages alerting the status of telephone lines email transmissions and chat signals. The service proxy controller will send network routing and or origination information to the Media Server and the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway to facilitate the set up and tear down of various transactions. The service proxy controller is afforded the intelligence it needs to make these commands and process these status messages owing to the services of the applications services and special resources which the service proxy controller is connected to over access point .

In an embodiment of the invention multiple secure customer service proxy portals and associated service proxy controllers would be clustered in an N 1 resilient arrangement. Multiple access points or a common TCP IP communications bus would be used to connect an array of these servers together to achieve higher density and a modicum of service resiliency. Such an arrangement would call for the use of commonly available load balancers such as content switches and load balancers from Big IP or Cisco.

An embodiment of the secure customer service proxy portal is designed for interfacing with a variety of telecommunications and computing networks under software state control. These are the same networks as described in . A standard method for accessing networks is a network signaling interface. Such devices are commonly available from Cisco Dialogic and AudioCodes for example.

A first type of network signaling interface is represented in as PSTN IP MTSO Interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the appropriate network via a telecommunications link which in turn connects the secure customer service proxy portal to the PSTN IP or MTSO Switching Network as shown in . PSTN IP MTSO interface is also connected to the service proxy controller via access point . This PSTN IP MTSO interface represents access to the network on the service side of the deployment where the network is arranged to host services and capabilities of vendors network providers contact centers customer service web sites and social networking sites.

A second type of network signaling interface is represented in as cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the appropriate network via a telecommunications link which in turn connects the secure customer service proxy portal to the Cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia network as shown in . Cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia interface is also connected to the service proxy controller via access point . This cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia interface represents access to the network on the service side of the deployment where the network is arranged to host services and capabilities of vendors network providers contact centers customer service web sites and social networking sites.

The service proxy controller receives the routing and media type information from the processor and accesses various databases to ascertain the proper routing per transaction. The service proxy controller uses retrieval triggers in the database via a secure database access method as will be discussed in further detail below. Here the database contains all of the stored reverse automation scripts which include telephone routing and destination information. In addition there are databases which include signaling scripts for IVR systems web systems and the routing and phone number information for various terminal user devices.

The service proxy controller will also control along with the secure session servers as shown in access to transactions via the validation of a user session token. Such token will be generated for each session and triggered only by a successful biometric spoken by the user challenge.

In a second aspect of the invention the reverse automation gateway may establish a communication directly with a contact center on behalf of a customer and then bypass the secure customer service proxy portal in connecting the actual phone call directly via the appropriate network directly to a terminal user device. This scenario denotes a separation between command and control versus the delivery of content. Here as in the first scenario all command and control of the reverse automation gateway would nonetheless be dictated by the secure customer service proxy portal .

As with the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway as depicted in this control of media transmissions is not limited to telephone calls. In one embodiment the automation control voice gateway web proxy function will also control the transmission of other communications including but not limited to chats SMS and email. A processor is connected to the network signaling interfaces via automation control voice gateway web proxy function and the reverse automation gateway controller storage memory controller memory communications interface I O also referenced as the reverse automation gateway controller . All network signaling interfaces are controlled by the automation control voice gateway web proxy function .

Such scripts are intended to interact both with machines and human agents on the vendor or social networking provider side can be created and customized on behalf of individual customers in accordance with their peculiar likes and dislikes. This is completely different from a simple robotic test script used to test the load bearing capability of a system by simply pulsing the same data at a target test system over and over. These testing scripts are used to repeatedly produce valid traffic into a target test systems to ascertain the target system s ability to handle the traffic load. Media servers are also commonly available hardware apparatus built primarily with off the shelf microprocessors and related gear. Vendors such as Dialogic with their Contata nee Brooktrout media server and RadiSys Convedia CMS 3000 media server are commonly available. For speech recognition and biometric security applications special media servers can be equipped with Media Resource Control Protocol MRCP . Technology to control Media as with MRCP is commonly available from vendors such as Aumtech and Voxeo. Biometric technology in the form of speaker verification is commonly available from vendors such as the IBM Conversational Biometrics Group or Valid Voice of Melbourne.

The reverse automation gateway controller gets status messages from the customer emulator scripts media server functions and the automation control voice gateway web proxy function . The messages derive from customer emulator scripts media server functions and the automation control voice gateway web proxy function detection of events and processes on the network signaling interfaces.

For example the network signaling interfaces will both receive commands to execute on or send messages alerting the status of telephone lines email transmissions and chat signals. The reverse automation gateway controller will send network routing and or origination information to the customer emulator scripts media server functions and the to facilitate the set up and tear down of various transactions. The automation gateway controller is afforded the intelligence it needs to make these commands and process these status messages owing to the services of the secure customer service proxy portal which the reverse automation gateway is connected to over access point .

In a another embodiment of the invention multiple reverse automation gateways and associated reverse automation gateway controllers would be clustered in an N 1 resilient arrangement. Multiple access points or a common TCP IP communications bus would be used to connect an array of these servers together to achieve higher density and a modicum of service resiliency. Such an arrangement would call for the use of commonly available load balancers such as content switches and load balancers from Big IP or Cisco.

An embodiment of the reverse automation gateway is designed for interfacing with a variety of telecommunications and computing networks under software state control. These are the same networks as described in . A standard method for accessing networks is a network signaling interface. Such devices are commonly available from Cisco Dialogic and AudioCodes for example.

A first type of network signaling interface is represented in as PBX ACD IVR interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the appropriate contact center infrastructure via a telecommunications link . This represents a logical access point for the vendor service side of the network where the reverse Automation gateway is typically deployed.

A second type of network signaling interface is represented in as Web HTTP TCP IP interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the appropriate vendor or social networking web site infrastructure via a telecommunications link . This represents another logical access point for the vendor service side of the network where the reverse automation gateway is typically deployed.

A third type of network signaling interface is represented in as PSTN IP MTSO Interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the PSTN IP or MTSO switching network via a telecommunications link . This represents a logic access point for the user side of the network as it relates to web browsers smart phones and telephones.

A fourth type of network signaling interface is represented in as cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia interface . This network signaling interface is connected to the cable TV IP TV satellite multimedia network via a telecommunications link . This represents a logic access point for the user side of the network as it relates to multimedia and TV set top boxes.

The reverse automation gateway controller storage memory controller memory communications interface I O also referred to as the reverse automation gateway controller receives routing and media type information from its CPU and accesses various databases to ascertain the proper routing per transaction. Reverse automation gateway controller uses retrieval triggers in the database via a secure database access method as further detailed in . Here the database contains all of the stored reverse automation scripts which include telephone routing and destination information. In addition there are databases which include signaling scripts for IVR systems web systems and the routing and phone number information for various terminal user devices.

The reverse automation gateway controller will also control along with the secure session servers as shown in access to transactions via the validation of a user session token. Such token will be generated for each session and triggered only by a successful biometric spoken by the user challenge.

With reference to in one aspect of the invention the reverse automation gateway may be deployed in such a way that it is hosted in a network and therefore contacts and communicates with a plurality of vendor contact centers over a telecommunication link . In addition the reverse automation gateway may be deployed in such a way that it is hosted in a network and therefore contacts and communicates with a plurality of vendor and social networking web sites over a telecommunication link . This shared arrangement may be advantageous for vendors who do not contemplate a high volume of transactions where a dedicated CPE based Reverse Automation Gateway may eliminate certain transmission and carriage charges such as toll free long distance telephone call charges.

The location of the reverse automation gateway in this shared arrangement may be co located with elements of the secure customer service proxy portal or may be deployed regionally so as to reduce backhauling of telephone calls. Such an arrangement is commonly achieved by well known practices in telecommunications dealing with remote switching nodes.

With reference to the reverse automation gateway may be configured in a dedicated service arrangement. In this additional aspect the reverse automation gateway may be deployed in such a way that it is installed as CPE on a vendor contact center site therefore contacts and communicates with a single vendor contact center A in one instantiation. In yet another aspect of the invention a second reverse automation gateway may be paired with a separate contact center n while it is also deployed with the first and so on. This means a plurality of contact centers may be individually served by dedicated reverse automation gateways that are all nonetheless controlled by a centralized secure customer service proxy portal .

In this additional aspect of the invention the reverse automation gateway may be deployed in such a way that it is installed as CPE on a Vendor s site in order to be directly connected to the vendor or social networking web site equipment. In such an arrangement the reverse automation gateway will contact and communicates with a single vendor web site A in one instantiation. In yet another aspect of the invention a second reverse automation gateway may be paired with a separate web site N while it is also deployed with the first and so on. This means a plurality of web sites may be individually served by dedicated reverse automation gateways that are all nonetheless controlled by a centralized secure customer service proxy portal .

This dedicated arrangement may be advantageous for the owners of certain vendor contact centers who have concerns about the security aspects of switching in the network versus on site as CPE. In addition with dedicated CPE in reverse automation gateways it is possible to dedicate VoIP or dedicated T 1 PSTN circuits in such a way that toll free 800 number bypass is achieved. It may also be considered advantageous for such an arrangement on the vendor web site or social networking web site arrangement where the reverse automation gateway may be co located behind the vendor s DMZ secure web zone to ameliorate security concerns.

In one embodiment of the invention the practitioner will deploy a distributed network based architecture with all of the servers processes and databases arranged around a secure transmission bus. In this aspect as depicted in the application services and special resources gateway entity acts as a gateway for special services to the secure customer service proxy portal . Here a practitioner skilled in the art of local networking may deploy a commercially available communications bus such as The Information Bus TIB from TIBCO Software Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. which is depicted in as secure transmission bus .

First arranged around the secure transmission bus is the application services and special resources gateway entity. In a one embodiment of the invention the practitioner will deploy a commonly available store and forward schema on this entity such as is described in Sun Microsystems J2EE container and similar web server software arrangements for common mailboxes and communications routines. Such routines are available on Apache Sun and Microsoft IIS servers for example.

As depicted in the application services and special resources gateway entity acts as a consolidation and access point between other special services and the secure customer service proxy portal . The communications between these server functions can be achieved via the access point where commonly available protocols such as FTP HTTPS and HTTP 1.1 for persistent connections may be utilized. A so called software oriented architecture using SOAP or Text Over HTTP messaging can be used as a means to abstract direct database contact with servers outside of the application services and special resources environment. This is not to limit the means with which secure communications may be encrypted or transferred both inside and outside the application services and special resources environment. Proprietary transmission and encryption schemes can be utilized.

Second arranged around the secure transmission bus is the host resources and control server . The purpose of the host resources and control server is to maintain a working list of associated programs and their execution parameters and the location of those programs as they relate to physical resources.

Third arranged around the secure transmission bus is the application servers the purpose of which are explained in detail further below.

Fourth arranged around the secure transmission bus is the secure database access method . The purpose of the secure database access method is to ensure the integrity of private sensitive or financial data and to make sure such data is not accessed by unauthorized programs. The secure database access method will require an encrypted token for each secure data access. Such encrypted token may only be generated and authorized after a secure biometric based session verification with users. The actual database server holds a plurality of database tables each associated with application servers and secure data that must be stored and accessed to allow the secure customer service proxy portal to operate.

Fifth arranged around the secure transmission bus is the secure session servers . The purpose of the secure session servers is to ensure the integrity of each communication session with each user. Session integrity deals with the issues of persistence and failover. In a one embodiment of the invention the practitioner will deploy HTTP 1.1 or other persistent connections that work in tandem with web server clustering and load balancers in order to ensure the integrity of each transmission.

The secure customer service proxy portal utilizes not only an array of gateways and application servers but also a database. Database technology is commonly available in the public domain and commercially from vendors such as Microsoft and Oracle. shows a plurality of databases that can be used collectively in several embodiments of this invention. There is no limitation on the combination or distribution of these databases. In one aspect of the invention all data may be available in one or only a few database tables. In another aspect of the invention all data may be distributed in separate databases and database tables as is depicted in . The practitioner will decide if the concepts associated with each part of the drawing may be optimized by combination or distribution of same.

The reverse automation scripts and library is table or collection of tables that are used to store crucial information dealing with a plurality of automated robotic routines that will run as commands associated with the use of the reverse automation gateway . As depicted in the reverse automation gateway may be deployed in a shared service topology or as depicted in in a dedicated service topology. Regardless of the shared or dedicated use the reverse automation gateway will receive commands from the reverse automation server as depicted in which relies in part on data stored in the reverse automation scripts and library . The nature of these commands deal with what scripts must be loaded into memory and executed upon by the reverse automation gateway . The reverse automation gateway will also receive commands from the secure session servers as depicted in . The nature of these commands deal with the control and security of the actual sessions in which the scripts will be executed.

The reverse automation scripts and library will include information on each reverse automation script for each vendor and will include but not be limited to the following a A template for each commonly used and or commercially available Interactive Voice Response IVR system which can be used as basis for each reverse automation script b a table or collection of tables which stores data on each IVR based reverse automation script c A template for each commonly used and or commercially available vendor web based system which can be used as basis for each reverse automation script d a table or collection of tables which stores data on each vendor web based reverse automation script e A template for each commonly used and or commercially available social networking web based system which can be used as basis for each reverse automation script f a table or collection of tables which stores data on each social networking web based reverse automation script g a profile for each reverse automation gateway that identifies what customer persona profiles are associated with the user of the application as it relates to the vendor contact center or IVR system vendor web system or social networking web system h a profile for each Reverse Automation Gateway that links its accessibility to a security token and session token for its authorized use and i any attributes which distinguish a specific reverse automation gateway for direct use by users of the application via the secure customer service proxy portal .

A vendor IVR protocol database is a table or collection of tables that may be used to store information dealing with a plurality of vendor contact center IVR systems. Such systems will be accessed by the reverse automation gateway as depicted in and . The reverse automation gateway will receive commands from the reverse automation server as depicted in which relies in part on data stored in the vendor IVR protocol database . The nature of these commands deal with what protocols must be executed upon in order for the reverse automation gateway to successfully communicate with the target Contact Center and IVR system. The vendor IVR protocol database will include information on each vendor contact center IVR system and will include but not be limited to the following a A template for each commonly used and or commercially available Interactive Voice Response IVR system protocol which will be driven by its connection with the Reverse Automation Gateway b a table or collection of tables which stores data on each IVR based protocols. Such protocols may be but are not limited to Session Initiation Protocol SIP 3G Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and Real Time Transport Protocol RTP c a profile for protocol that links its accessibility to a security token and session token for its authorized use and d any attributes which distinguish a specific protocol as to suitability for direct use by users of the application via the Secure Customer Service Proxy Portal.

As shown in media storage may be a table or collection of tables that are used to store information dealing with the location and type of media being stored by the secure customer service proxy portal . In one embodiment of the invention the media storage database tables and records will act as a pointer to BLOBs Binary Large Objects which are in turn stored in the file system of the host computer in which the database resides. Such BLOBs may be stored in a separate location in a separate host computer that the database can nonetheless point to so the application servers as shown in will have access to the media. Access to such media is facilitated by use of common protocols such as but not limited to Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP File Transfer Protocol and Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP4 .

The services of the media storage will be called upon via the secure database access method by certain secure customer service proxy portal entities. In one aspect of the invention the reverse automation server may send a command to the media storage entity to download and use media such as speech files for the reverse automation gateway to use in its reverse emulation of IVR scripts with a particular contact center speech or IVR system. In another aspect of the invention the reverse automation server will send a command to the media storage entity to download and use media such as chat scripts for the reverse automation gateway to use in its reverse emulation of an automated chat dialog with a specific social networking web site. In one embodiment of the invention a variety of media will be stored in the media storage in order to allow various secure customer service proxy portal entities to take advantage of automation schema using stored and reusable media. In another aspect of the invention the services of the media storage will be called upon via the secured database access method by the security and biometric server as depicted in . The security and biometric server may use the media storage to store and access encrypted biometric speech samples prompts or other media that may require encryption or association with security keys. In another aspect of the invention the services of the media storage will be called upon via the secured database access method by the persona resources server as depicted in . The persona resources server may use the media storage to store and access media associated with persona icons or avatars. In addition the persona resources server may use the media storage to store and access media such as logos identifiers photos or other media that may be associated with the common user interface aggregator matrix . The media storage can be called upon other servers and shall not be limited to servers contemplated in .

A security and biometric encryption database uses a table or collection of tables to store information dealing with but not limited to security routines encryption applications passwords encryption keys personal identification numbers credit card numbers PIN codes and other relevant data that would reasonably be expected to be part of a secure customer service or transaction processing scenario. Such scenarios being facilitated in part by the use of the secure customer service proxy portal .

A vendor web protocol database is a table or collection of tables that is used to store information dealing with a plurality of vendor contact center web systems. Such systems will be accessed by the reverse automation gateway as depicted in and . the reverse automation gateway will receive commands from the reverse automation server as depicted in which relies in part on data stored in the vendor web protocol database . The nature of these commands deal with what protocols must be executed upon in order for the reverse automation gateway to successfully communicate with the target contact web site system. The vendor web protocol database will include information on each vendor contact center web system and will include but not be limited to the following a A template for each commonly used and or commercially available web site system protocol which will be driven by its connection with the Reverse Automation Gateway b a table or collection of tables which stores data on each web based protocol. Such protocols may be but are not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Voice Extensible Markup Language VXML and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP c a profile for protocol that links its accessibility to a security token and session token for its authorized use and d any attributes which distinguish a specific protocol as to suitability for direct use by users of the application via the secure customer service proxy portal .

A transaction history database is a table or collection of tables used to store information dealing with specific events such as system or interoperability events and also transaction oriented events such as events associated with specific customer specific phone calls IP TV media transmissions SMS transmissions and chats between users and social web sites. Such transactions shall not be limited to native transactions that begin and end in the secure customer service proxy portal environment but may extend to other transactions that begin in other systems and end in other systems but are nonetheless carried in part by the secure customer service proxy portal . The transaction history database will store all relevant and useful data dealing with events and transactions. Data to be stored will include but not be limited to a an identifier of the originating system of the event b identifiers dealing with systems a transaction may be handed off to or conference with c a time stamp of the beginning and end of the transaction d the type of media employed in the transaction e the devices used or accessed with the transaction f file pointers to Binary Large Objects or Media BLOBs associated with the transaction g service level data h protocols used i security routines and scripts used and j transfer data.

A persona resources library and database is a table or collection of tables used to store information dealing with the persona corral as depicted in and . The persona corral is a collection of user specific profiles associated with each customer. The persona resources library and database will store data dealing with persona creation maintenance and use. Data to be stored will include but not be limited to a an identifier of the Persona s owner b identifier of the particular persona name c attributes of the persona dealing with financial or personal data d attributes of the persona dealing with social networking information e attributes of the persona dealing with preferences such as the time of day for certain communications e attributes of the persona dealing with other preferences such as communications channels f attributes of the persona dealing with vendor preferences g attributes of the persona dealing with preferences on demographic exposure h attributes of the persona dealing with opt in lists or allowing commercial solicitations i and attributes of the persona dealing with security issues and related security data such as token data.

A social site protocol database is a table or collection of tables used to store crucial information dealing with a plurality of social networking web systems. Such systems will be accessed by the reverse automation gateway as depicted in and . The reverse automation gateway will receive commands from the reverse automation server as depicted in which relies in part on data stored in the social site protocol database . The nature of these commands deal with what protocols must be executed upon in order for the reverse automation gateway to successfully communicate with the target social networking web systems. The social site protocol database will include information on each social networking web system and will include but not be limited to the following a a template for each commonly used and or commercially available social networking web system protocol which will be driven by its connection with the reverse automation gateway b a table or collection of tables which stores data on each web based protocol. Such protocols may be but are not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Voice Extensible Markup Language VXML and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP c a profile for protocol that links its accessibility to a security token and session token for its authorized use and d any attributes which distinguish a specific protocol as to suitability for direct use by users of the application via the secure customer service proxy portal .

The secure customer service proxy portal utilizes not only an array of gateways and a database but also application servers. As depicted in the application servers are placeholders for the unique applications. In an embodiment of the invention a plurality of applications such as the reverse automation server and the vendor IVR protocol server will be able to run inside of one physical server as depicted by application servers or alternately separated out into separate servers in a distributed environment. The practitioner will decide if the concepts associated with each part of the drawing may be optimized by combination or distribution of the same. Microprocessor controlled hardware that may host these application servers is commonly available from vendors such as Dell or Sun Microsystems. The practitioner may choose to equip these physical servers in the same manner explained in and as with the service proxy controller storage memory controller memory communications interface I O or the reverse automation gateway controller storage memory controller memory communications interface I O respectively.

The vendor IVR protocol server is one of the entities associated with the application servers . The vendor IVR protocol server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the vendor IVR protocol server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the vendor IVR protocol server maintains a working real time memory of all of the IVR protocols to be used by the reverse automation gateways deployed in the system.

This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the secure session servers with particular information about any vendor IVR system for the purpose of communicating with and sending and receiving commands to a speech or IVR system on behalf of a customer. Such information will include but not be limited to a the primary protocol to be used with the vendor IVR system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway and b the alternative protocol if any associated with the vendor IVR system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway .

The service creation and provisioning server as one of the entities associated with the application servers . The service creation and provisioning server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the service creation and provisioning server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers . In particular the service creation and provisioning server provides a means for a system administrator to make changes to the database as depicted in and by proxy has access via the secure database access method to all of the databases contained in the secure customer service proxy portal environment. In one embodiment of the invention the service creation and provisioning server will use a JDBC connection or some other suitable commercially available database access connection to make changes in the aforementioned databases. In one aspect of the invention the service creation and provisioning server can make updates to the databases using a SOA Services Oriented Architecture method such as an HTTPS based web service method. The practitioner may choose between more direct SQL based database manipulations or a more decoupled SOA based approach without negatively impacting the overall efficacy of the invention. In addition to having access to the databases the service creation and provisioning server will render a forms based or graphical representation of the database information required to provision the system. Environments for creating such an interface are commonly available commercially with products from companies such as Microsoft and Oracle for example.

A security and biometric server is one of the entities associated with the application servers . The security and biometric server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the security and biometric server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the security and biometric server maintains a working real time memory of all of the security tokens issued for each real time transaction in use with the system at any one time. This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the secure session servers with particular information about any security token for the expressed purpose of communicating with and sending and receiving commands to a reverse automation gateway or a terminal User device such as a web browser smart phone telephone or multimedia TV set top box . In addition the real time algorithms biometric sample corpus and executables associated with biometric sessions are controlled by the security and biometric server . In one embodiment of the invention the security and biometric server will control the listening mode of the entity as depicted in and the Customer Emulator Scripts Media servers speech and biometric token handling secure data handling server functions entity as depicted in .

This listening mode allows the security and biometric server to process spoken signals and match them with biometric samples in the database to establish and verify users in a secure way. The practitioner will implement the security and biometric server and media servers as per and using standard Application Programming Interfaces APIs and standard protocols such as Media Resource Control Protocol MRCP Voice Extensible Markup Language VXML State Control Extensible Markup Language SCXML Call Control Extensible Markup Language CCXML . Tools and server technology to implement these standards are available from companies such as Voxeo of Orlando Fla.

The vendor web protocol server is another entity associated with the application servers . The vendor web protocol server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the vendor web protocol server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the vendor web protocol server maintains a working real time memory of all of the web based protocols to be used by the reverse automation gateways deployed in the system. This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the Secure Session Servers with particular information about any vendor web system for the expressed purpose of communicating with and sending and receiving commands to a vendor web system connected to the secure customer service proxy portal . Such information will include but not be limited to a The primary protocol to be used with the Vendor web system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway and b the alternative protocol if any associated with the Vendor web system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway . The vendor web protocol server will use standards based protocols that the practitioner will have commercial access to. In an embodiment of the invention the practitioner will deploy standards based protocols which are commonly available such as but not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Voice Extensible Markup Language VXML and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and Real Time Transport Protocol RTP .

The report generation server is still another entity associated with the application servers . The report generation server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the report generation server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers . In particular the report generation server provides a means for a system administrator to run diagnostic and management reports based on the real time information stored in volatile memory of the application servers and the historical information stored in the database as depicted in . By proxy the report generation server has access via the secure database access method to all of the databases contained in the secure customer service proxy portal environment. In an embodiment of the invention the report generation server will use a JDBC connection or some other suitable commercially available database access connection to query the aforementioned databases. in one aspect of the invention the report generation server can get database information for reporting purposes by using a SOA Services Oriented Architecture method such as an HTTPS based web service method.

The practitioner may choose between more direct SQL based database queries or a more decoupled SOA based approach without negatively impacting the overall efficacy of the invention. In addition to having access to the databases the report generation server will be used to render reports in common formats such as Extensible Markup Language XML or Hypertext Markup Language HTML . Such reports may be rendered using commercially available tools such as the open source tools available from JasperForge.org.

A persona resources server is one of the entities associated with the application servers . the persona resources server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the vendor web protocol server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the vendor persona resources server maintains a working real time memory of all of the customer personas to be used by the reverse automation gateways deployed in the system. This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the secure session servers with particular information about any persona for the expressed purpose of communicating with and sending and receiving commands to a vendor web system IVR system or social networking site connected to the secure customer service proxy portal . In particular the persona resources server contains a working memory of each persona corral which is a collection of user specific profiles associated with each customer. The persona resources server has access to the persona resources library and database which stores relevant and useful data dealing with persona creation maintenance and use. The persona resources server has access to and sends commands to other servers based on Persona information including but not be limited to a each persona s owner b each persona s name c financial data associated with a persona d social networking information associated with each persona e time of day preferences for each persona e communication channel preferences for each persona f vendor preferences for each persona g demographic exposure preferences for each persona h opt in lists or commercial solicitation preferences for each persona i and attributes of the persona dealing with security issues and related security data such as token data.

The social site protocol server is an entity associated with the application servers . The social site protocol server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the social site protocol server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the social site protocol server maintains a working real time memory of all of the web based protocols to be used by the reverse automation gateways deployed in the system. This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the secure session servers with particular information about any social networking web system for the expressed purpose of communicating with and sending and receiving commands to a social networking web system connected to the secure customer service proxy portal . Such information will include but not be limited to a the primary protocol to be used with the social networking web system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway and b the alternative protocol if any associated with the social networking web system or systems connected to each reverse automation gateway .

the social site protocol server will use standards based protocols that the practitioner will have commercial access to. In an embodiment of the invention the practitioner will deploy standards based protocols which are commonly available such as but not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Voice Extensible Markup Language VXML and Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and Real Time Transport Protocol RTP .

A terminal device protocol server is yet another entity associated with the application servers . The terminal device protocol server has access via the secure transmission bus to other servers and connected entities in the secure customer service portal environment. In addition the terminal device protocol server has access to the secure session servers which are arranged to call upon the array of application servers including the reverse automation server in the regular duties of setting up and tearing down sessions and transactions. In particular the terminal device protocol server maintains a working real time memory of all of the terminal devices to be used by customers of the secure customer service proxy portal and the reverse automation gateways deployed in the system. This real time working memory is able to provide other servers such as the secure session servers with particular information about any terminal device for the expressed purpose of communicating with and connecting these devices to end points including but not limited to a vendor call centers and IVR systems b vendor web sites and c social networking web sites that are all connected to the secure customer service proxy portal . The terminal device protocol server will store information that makes it possible to answer calls from or make calls to these devices over a variety of media. In particular the terminal device protocol server will have access to the terminal device database which enables the server to identify terminal devices by their user and to identify how to reach those devices. The terminal device database also stores protocol information the terminal device protocol server can act upon on behalf of each user. Such information includes but is not limited to the following a the unique telephone number or other address that makes the device addressable by the application b the communication protocol associated with the device. Such protocols may be but are not limited to SIP 3G PSTN or IP c the order of preference for device use by each user of the application d alternate devices associated with the user of the application e security token and session token information and f any attributes which distinguish a specific device as to suitability for direct use by users of the application via the secure customer service proxy portal .

Web browser technologies will be well known to the practitioner. There are a variety of Application Programming Interfaces APIs development environment DE and run time environments RTE that will support a suitable environment for various embodiments of the invention. The browser environment connected to the web browser is the receptacle for these APIs DE and RTE. Programming tools for Sun Microsystems Java Adobe Flash Adobe Flex and others are commonly available to the practitioner.

As depicted in the browser environment is the common receptacle for the user interface aggregator matrix which is connected to the browser environment at access point . The user interface aggregator matrix provides a unified look and feel to the secure customer service proxy portal end user interface. The user interface aggregator matrix uses the same approach and methodology regardless of the terminal device it is deployed on. A particular aspect of the user interface aggregator matrix as per each terminal device is that its communications plug in connected as access point will be adapted to the specific user environment of that specific user device. That is to say that communications plug in will have a parameter based option to allow the user interface aggregator matrix to run in a browser environment a smart phone environment as depicted in a VoIP software based telephone environment as depicted in or a multimedia tc set top box environment as depicted in . The communications plug in will be implemented in such a way as to not preclude its use in a variety of other environments including but not limited to live radio broadcast two way video communications or other multimedia communications environments. One purpose of the communications plug in is to communicate with the terminal device protocol server as described in and the secure session servers as described in . These communications will occur using the protocols governed by the terminal device protocol server and the secure session servers as they related to the particular terminal device the profile of which is stored in the terminal device database as described in .

Another aspect of the invention as shown in is the security plug in which is connected to the user interface aggregator matrix via access point . the security plug in as with the communications plug in is a common element of the user interface aggregator matrix regardless of terminal device. The security plug in will have a parameter based option to allow the user interface aggregator matrix to run in a browser environment a smart phone environment as depicted in a VoIP software based telephone environment as depicted in or a multimedia TC set top box environment as depicted in . The security plug in will be implemented in such a way as to not preclude its use in a variety of other environments including but not limited to live radio broadcast two way video communications or other multimedia communications environments. The chief purpose of the security plug in is to communicate with the security and biometric server as described in and the secure session servers as described in . These communications will occur using the rules and protocols governed by the security and biometric server and the secure session servers as they related to the particular terminal device the profile of which is stored in the terminal device database as described above with reference to . In addition the security plug in acts as a secure mechanism to handle other secure data including but not limited to secure session keys and passwords created and used on behalf of the user.

Vendor Plug Ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . Vendor plug ins are software that allows for the arrangement and selection of vendor based connections by the user. A more detailed view of the vendor plug ins is described below with reference to .

Persona plug ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . Persona plug ins are software that allows for the configuration arrangement and selection of personas and a persona corral by the user. A persona is a collection of attributes created by the user that represent a plurality of incrementally intimate and secure aspects of the relationship between the user and the vendor and the user and a social networking site and the user and other users. A more detailed view of the persona plug ins is depicted in .

Social plug ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . Social plug ins are software that allows for the arrangement and selection of social networking site based connections by the user. A more detailed view of the social plug ins is depicted in .

Smart phone technologies will be well known to the practitioner. There are a variety of Application Programming Interfaces APIs development environment DE and run time environments RTE that will support a suitable environment for the invention. The smart phone environment connected to the smart phone is the receptacle for these APIs DE and RTE. Programming tools for Sun Microsystems Java Adobe Flash Adobe Flex and others are commonly available to the practitioner. Other environments suitable for development on a smart phone may include but are not limited to environments such as those provided by Apple Computer for its iPhone Apps.

The smart phone environment is the common receptacle for the user interface aggregator matrix which is connected to the smart phone environment at access point . As with the web browser user device as depicted in the user interface aggregator matrix provides a unified look and feel to the secure customer service proxy portal end user interface. the user interface aggregator matrix uses the same approach and methodology regardless of the terminal device it is deployed on. A particular aspect of the user interface aggregator matrix as per each terminal device is that its communications plug in connected as access point will be adapted to the specific user environment of that specific user device as described in .

Another aspect illustrated in is the security plug in which is connected to the user interface aggregator matrix via access point as described in . The security plug in as with the communications plug in is a common element of the user interface aggregator matrix regardless of terminal device.

The vendor plug ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . The utility of the vendor plug ins as they relate to the smart phone environment are inclusive of but not limited to the capabilities described in and the detailed view in .

The persona plug ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . The utility of the persona plug ins as they relate to the smart phone environment are inclusive of but not limited to the capabilities described in and the detailed view in .

The social plug ins are connected to the user interface aggregator matrix at access point . The utility of the social plug ins as they relate to the smart phone environment are inclusive of but not limited to the capabilities described in and the detailed view in .

Both regular telephone and Voice Over Internet Protocol Telephone VoIP Telephone technologies will be well known to the practitioner. There are a variety of Application Programming Interfaces APIs development environment DE and run time environments RTE that will support a suitable environment for VoIP Telephones contemplated as suitable for the invention. In addition commonly available Interactive Voice Response IVR technologies will be used to link regular telephone users to the secure customer service proxy portal . The owners of such regular telephone terminal devices may not have ready access to software based user devices however a commonly available user interface and methodology for transcribing speech and touch tone input into computer commands via IVR is well known and commercially available. For example both Dialogic Nuance and Voxeo are companies amongst dozens of others that make this technology available to the practitioner.

In this context the access point which connects the telephone to the VoIP software based telephone environment may embody a customer premises equipment or network based connection to the IVR system mentioned here. The purpose of such an IVR system is to take speech or touch tone based input from the user and map it to the VoIP software based telephone environment . Here the PSTN POTS telephone reference card is a placeholder for the mapped speech or touch tone commands a user would employ to achieve the necessary software access to the same commands available in the VoIP software based telephone environment . The PSTN POTS telephone reference card is a reference document that users of the telephone interface can use as a guide.

In an alternate embodiment of this aspect of the invention the VoIP software based telephone environment may incorporate an IVR capability and be deployed as part of the media server speech and biometric token handling secure data handling device as depicted in or it may incorporate an IVR capability and be deployed as part of the reverse automation gateway as depicted in .

In an embodiment of the telephone user device the VoIP software based telephone environment will natively connect to commonly available physical VoIP phones such as those available from Cisco or Polycom. Alternately the VoIP software based telephone environment will natively connect to software based VoIP phones such as those available from Skype or Microsoft. A common attribute of VoIP phones is their ability to accept and process commands based on visual screen based or LED based prompts associated with the device. The practitioner will use commercially and commonly available Applications Programming Interfaces APIs supplied by the VoIP vendors or proprietary drivers supplied by the VoIP vendors to allow the voip software based telephone environment to interoperate with these terminal devices.

As depicted in the voip software based telephone environment is the common receptacle for the user interface aggregator matrix which is connected to the VoIP software based telephone environment at access point . As with the web browser user device as depicted in the user interface aggregator matrix provides a unified look and feel to the secure customer service proxy portal end user interface. The user interface aggregator matrix uses the same approach and methodology regardless of the terminal device it is deployed on. A particular aspect of the user interface aggregator matrix as per each terminal device is that its communications plug in connected as access point will be adapted to the specific user environment of that specific user device as described in .

Another aspect of the invention shown in is the security plug in which is connected to the user interface aggregator matrix via access point as described in . The security plug in as with the communications plug in is a common element of the user interface aggregator matrix regardless of terminal device.

Technologies typifying the multimedia TV set top box will be well known to the practitioner as they are based on common microprocessor based computer devices. As with a browser based environment there are a variety of Application Programming Interfaces APIs development environment DE and run time environments RTE that will support a suitable environment for the invention. The multimedia TV set top box environment connected to the multimedia TV set top box is the receptacle for these APIs DE and RTE. Programming tools for Sun Microsystems Java Adobe Flash Adobe Flex and others are commonly available to the practitioner.

As depicted in the multimedia TV set top box environment is the common receptacle for the user interface aggregator matrix which is connected to the multimedia TV set top box environment at the access point . As with the web browser user device shown in the user interface aggregator matrix provides a unified look and feel to the secure customer service proxy portal end user interface. The user interface aggregator matrix uses the same approach and methodology regardless of the terminal device it is deployed on. A particular aspect of the user interface aggregator matrix as per each terminal device is that its communications plug in connected as access point will be adapted to the specific user environment of that specific user device as described in .

Another aspect of the multimedia TV set top box environment as it relates to multimedia TV set top box user devices is the interoperability and communication with associated user devices such as remote controls. In this aspect of the invention the remote control acts as a keyboard allowing the user to provide input into the multimedia TV set top box environment . Another aspect of the invention as it relates to the multimedia TV set top box environment is the option to derive input from users via embedded speech devices which may be available in certain multimedia TV set top box user devices. In an embodiment of the invention the multimedia TV set top box user device will employ its own embedded speech capability as an alternative input device versus the remote control. In another aspect of the invention the TV set top box user device will act as a gateway to more traditional speech or touch tone input mechanisms such as a network based Interactive Voice Response IVR system.

Another aspect of the invention as shown in is the security plug in which is connected to the user interface aggregator matrix via access point as described in . The security plug in as with the communications plug in is a common element of the user interface aggregator matrix regardless of terminal device.

In an embodiment of the invention the make up and stored attributes for the vendor plug ins will be created and provisioned with the user interface as described as part of the service creation and provisioning server depicted in . The specific protocols and parameters used to communicate with the vendor systems represented by the Vendor Plug Ins that were entered using the service creation and provisioning server will be stored in the vendor IVR protocol database and the vendor web protocol database as depicted in . The servers that will call up the relevant profile information for use in a live session carried out on behalf of a customer will be the vendor web protocol server connected by access point to the vendor plug ins the vendor IVR protocol server connected by access point to the vendor plug ins and the reverse automation server connected by access point to the vendor plug ins . The reverse automation server will receive commands from both the vendor web protocol server and the vendor IVR protocol server so it will know how to communicate with the target vendor device that is the web site contact center or IVR system .

The secure session servers as depicted in will be used to govern each particular session in which a vendor plug in is evoked so the appropriate application servers will come in to play for specific functions. For example in addition to the interplay of the vendor web protocol server and the vendor IVR protocol server The secure session servers will work in tandem with the security and biometric server to verify the identity of users for secure interactions. The multi phased biometric security schema which is governed in part by the security and biometric server is explained in further detail in .

As depicted in each vendor plug in will have a distinct and separate manifestation based on its rendering in the user device which is under the control of the user interface aggregator matrix . For example the selection of Vendor X versus Vendor Y versus Vendor N by the customer may be different in a browser environment than that of a VoIP software based telephone environment . Specifically the choice of Vendor Y in a browser environment may require a right mouse click on a visual icon in the form of the vendor s commercial logo which is arranged on a web site along with other logos representing other vendor plug ins . Likewise in another aspect of the invention the choice of Vendor X in a VoIP software based telephone environment may manifest in a verbal IVR menu choice with no visual icon. Alternately the choice of Vendor X in a VoIP Software based telephony environment may manifest in a soft button associated with a physical VoIP telephone instrument. In the context of its use under the overall user interface aggregator matrix vendor plug ins are the destination or one of plurality of receptacles for a dialog the user wishes to originate with a specific persona plug in . In another aspect of the invention the social plug ins are the destination or one of a plurality of receptacle for a dialog the user wishes to originate with a specific persona plug in . It is important to note that the secure customer service proxy portal does not preclude the practitioner s ability to implement the invention in such a way that the user interface aggregator matrix will be used to facilitate incoming interactions as well as outgoing ones using a similar model.

The make up and stored attributes for the persona plug ins may be created and provisioned with the user interface. The specific protocols and parameters used to communicate with vendor based contact center IVR and web systems will be stored in the vendor IVR protocol database and the vendor web protocol database as depicted in . The servers that will call up the relevant profile information for use in a live session carried out on behalf of a customer will be the vendor web protocol server the vendor IVR protocol server and the Reverse automation server . The reverse automation server will receive commands from both the vendor web protocol server and the vendor IVR protocol server so it will know how to communicate with the target vendor device that is the web site contact center or IVR system . The secure session servers as depicted in will be used to govern each particular session in which a persona plug in is evoked so the appropriate application servers will come in to play for specific functions. For example in addition to the interplay of the vendor web protocol server and the vendor IVR protocol server the secure session servers will work in tandem with the security and biometric server to verify the identity of users for secure interactions. The multi phased biometric security schema which is governed in part by the security and biometric server is explained in further detail in . In addition persona plug ins will access the persona resources server which has access to stored persona data in the persona resources library and database as depicted in .

As depicted in each persona plug in will have a distinct and separate manifestation based on its rendering in the user device which is under the control of the user interface aggregator matrix . For example the selection of Persona X versus Persona Y versus Persona N by the customer may be different in a browser environment than that of a VoIP software based telephone environment . Specifically the choice of Persona Y in a browser environment my require a right mouse click on a visual icon in the form of the persona s icon or avatar which is arranged on a web site along with other icons representing other persona plug ins . Likewise in another aspect of the invention the choice of Persona X in a VoIP software based telephone environment may manifest in a verbal IVR menu choice with no visual icon. Alternately the choice of Persona N in a VoIP Software based telephony environment may manifest in a soft button associated with a physical VoIP telephone instrument. In the context of its use under the overall user interface aggregator matrix persona plug ins are the items that get dragged on to or are associated with a specific or group of vendor plug ins or with social plug ins . A communication is started based on the user associating any persona with either a vendor plug ins or a social plug ins . It is important to note that the secure customer service proxy portal does not preclude the practitioner s ability to implement the invention in such a way that the user interface aggregator matrix will be used to facilitate incoming interactions as well as outgoing ones using a similar model.

Such an operation may have a web site presence in which on line chats microblogs or other communications may be enabled. Such a site normally requires an individual customer to log in with certain credentials and to establish a secure session separate from other secure sessions which may have their own user interfaces. Social Y for example may represent a career oriented social networking site such as Linked In for example. As with the example for Social X such a site normally requires an individual customer to log in with certain credentials and to establish a secure session separate from other secure sessions which may have their own user interfaces. Social Y for example may represent a high school reunion Social Networking Site. Such an operation may have a live chat capability which allows users to post real time or close to real time messages. As with Social X such a site normally requires an individual customer to log in with certain credentials and to establish a secure session separate from other secure sessions which may have their own user interfaces. There are many other combinations that can be contemplated in another aspect of the invention and therefore social plug ins are not limited to these examples. In this context the user interface aggregator matrix seeks to normalize unify and make a single interface available for the user eliminating separate user interfaces and labor required to affect separate secure log on sequences. Through the linkages described earlier to the Reverse automation gateway and the automated scripts stored in the reverse automation scripts and library and the general session control afforded by the secure session servers the secure customer service proxy portal acts as a general aggregator of secure sessions in one aspect of the invention whilst providing a unified singular interface to the user in another aspect of the invention.

In an embodiment of the invention the make up and stored attributes for the social plug ins will be created and provisioned with the user interface as described as part of the service creation and provisioning server depicted in . The specific protocols and parameters used to communicate with the social networking sites represented by the social plug Ins that were entered using the service creation and provisioning server will be stored in the social site protocol database as depicted in . The servers that will call up the relevant profile information for use in a live session carried out on behalf of a customer will be the social site protocol server connected by access point to the social plug ins and the reverse automation server connected by access point to the social plug ins . The reverse automation server will receive commands from the social site protocol server so it will know how to communicate with the target social networking web site. The secure session servers as depicted in will be used to govern each particular session in which a social plug in is evoked so the appropriate application servers will come in to play for specific functions. For example in addition to the interplay of the social site protocol server the secure session servers will work in tandem with the security and biometric server to verify the identity of users for secure interactions. the multi phased biometric security schema which is governed in part by the security and biometric server is explained in further detail in .

As depicted in each social plug in will have a distinct and separate manifestation based on its rendering in the user device which is under the control of the user interface aggregator matrix . For example the selection of Social X versus Social Y versus Social N by the customer may be different in a browser environment than that of a VoIP software based telephone environment . Specifically the choice of Social Y in a browser environment my require a right mouse click on a visual icon in the form of the social networking site s commercial logo which is arranged on a web site along with other logos representing other social plug ins .

Likewise in another aspect of the invention the choice of Social X in a VoIP software based telephone environment may manifest in a verbal IVR menu choice with no visual icon. Alternately the choice of Social Y in a VoIP software based telephony environment may manifest in a soft button associated with a physical VoIP telephone instrument. In the context of its use under the overall user interface aggregator matrix social plug ins are the destination or one of plurality of receptacles for a dialog the user wishes to originate with a specific persona plug in . In another aspect of the invention the vendor plug ins are the destination or one of a plurality of receptacles for a dialog the user wishes to originate with a specific persona plug in . It is important to note that the secure customer service proxy portal does not preclude the practitioner s ability to implement the invention in such a way that the user interface aggregator matrix will be used to facilitate incoming interactions as well as outgoing ones using a similar model.

The reverse automation scripts and library is the database receptacle for the individual scripts and logic required to provide a robotic and automated traversal of both web sites and contact centers and Interactive Voice Response IVR systems. It is well known that the majority of IVR systems and Web sites are designed in a peculiar way so as to defy a common methodology or user interface. The reverse automation scripts and library holds data that is used by the reverse automation server to reconcile the disparate nature of these IVR and Web site approaches. In this context the reverse automation server acts as a point of consolidation for a plurality of automated scripts representing a plurality of vendor automation systems. In one aspect of the invention the secure customer service proxy portal acts as a single proxy for a plurality of vendor facing interfaces. In another aspect of the invention the user interface aggregator matrix which is also connected to the secure customer service proxy portal acts as a proxy for a plurality of customer facing interfaces called Personas. Together these aspects of the system eliminate redundant automation steps provide a robotic concierge aspect for the user and unify multiple vendor and social site experiences into one user interface for the user. At the heart of this process is the reverse automation gateway process methodology .

As depicts the reverse automation server is connected to the secure session servers . The secure session servers maintain context of individual sessions session keys and protocols on behalf of each customer interaction. The secure session servers are also central to the multi phased biometric security schema with its related connections to the persona resources server and security and biometric sever . Details on the multi phased biometric security schema are further shown in .

The reverse automation server is able to connect to multiple reverse automation gateways each of which may serve a discrete function relative to the vendor contact center IVR system or web site it is connected to. In an embodiment of the invention a reverse automation gateway that is connected to a vendor contact center N will call upon its native media server and network interfaces as shown in to communicate with the vendor IVR system with its PBX ACD IVR interface . In another aspect of one embodiment of the invention and in order to connect to a vendor specific web site on behalf of a customer a reverse automation gateway that is connected to a vendor web site N will call upon its native media server and network interfaces as shown in to communicate with the vendor web system with its Web HTTP TCP IP Interface .

In another aspect of the invention and in order to connect to a social networking specific web site on behalf of a customer a reverse automation gateway that is connected to a vendor web site N will call upon its native media server and network interfaces as shown in to communicate with the social site with its Web HTTP TCP IP Interface . What distinguishes the connection to a vendor web site versus a social networking site is the use of the vendor web protocol converter versus the social site protocol server respectively. The make up and physical configuration of the reverse automation gateway may be constant. The practitioner may use one set of reverse automation gateways to be optimally configured for web site interfacing and yet another set of reverse automation gateways to be optimally configured for IVR interfacing. Such distinctions shall have no adverse affect on the applicability of the invention.

One aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema is the routine for creating a persona and adding it to the personal corral. This is depicted in as Persona Creation and corralling routine connected logically to the persona resources server over access point . In this routine certain private financial and personal data may be collected by the system. Such information being sensitive it is therefore necessary to ensure that the user of the system who is creating the persona is verified. It is also therefore necessary after user verification to challenge the user for a password. These two steps which may be preceded by a biometric enrollment are prerequisites to creating editing and corralling personas. The logic flow for these steps is described in . Also associated with the persona resources server over access point is the persona and secure data linkage routine . The persona and secure data linkage routine takes the output from the data entered by the user with their terminal device user device and encrypts this data. This encrypted data is then associated with a session encryption key which is generated by the security and biometric server and passed on to the secure session servers each time a session is started. A session may include an interaction to create edit or corral a persona using a persona plug in or to associate a persona with a vendor plug in or to associate a persona plug in with a social plug in .

The association between a persona using the persona plug in with either a vendor plug in or a social plug in is not necessarily limited to a one to one relationship between these elements. In another aspect of the invention multiple simultaneous associations may be achieved. Each time the user makes an association with these elements a session is created by the secure session server. That is unless a secure session and related secure session token has already been created and the action of association is a continuation of an existing session. The persona and secure data linkage routine then is a standard security procedure that governs the use of encrypted session keys created by the security and biometric server the association of those keys with a specific session created and maintained by the secure session servers and linked logically to the persona in use by the persona resources server . In an embodiment of the invention all transmissions dealing with the persona creation and corralling routine and the persona and secure data linkage routine are encrypted during transmission and encrypted when stored. The practitioner will be familiar with the industry best practices associated with this encryption as described in detail by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS as defined by the PCI Security Standards Council.

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the biometric evocation routine . The biometric evocation routine is connected logically to the secure session servers at access point . In this routine a match up of a user s voice is compared to a previously captured sample of the user s voice in order to verify identity. The practitioner will find industry standard examples of such an implementation of biometric evocation as per software supplied by Nuance and IBM for example.

Such evocation will occur in two circumstances as it relates to the secure customer server proxy portal . First a biometric evocation will happen during the biometric enrollment routine as explained later here in association with . The biometric enrollment routine is further explained in and . Second biometric evocation will be used as part of the secure data capture routine as explained later here in association with . the secure data capture routine is further explained in and .

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the session specific key generation routine . The session specific key generation routine is connected logically to the secure session servers at access point . In this routine an encrypted session number is generated by the security and biometric server at the establishment of a session created by the secure session server . Once the key is generated by the security and biometric server it is then encrypted and passed on to the secure session server and then used for the remainder of the session. The key token is then thrown away at the termination of the session. The knowledge of how to implement this key token model is commonly available. The practitioner will find instructions on how to generate encrypt and use keys and tokens as per examples provided by the well known Diffie Hellman key exchange cryptographic protocol or RSA Security models.

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the key delivery and capture routine spoken . the key delivery and capture routine spoken is connected logically to the secure session servers at access point . In this routine an encrypted user facing token is generated by the security and biometric server at the establishment of a session created by the secure session server . Once the encrypted user facing token is generated by the security and biometric server it is then passed on to the secure session server and then used to establish the validity of the session by challenging the user for a read back of the encrypted user facing token once it is rendered at the user terminal device. Such a user facing token may be spoken by an imbedded speech mechanism at the point of the terminal device or it may be spoken in a more traditional manner by way of a standard Interactive Voice Response IVR delivery. If by embedded speech mechanism at the user device a command will be sent to the device via the session control voice gateway sms chat email gateway as described in . If by IVR the user facing token will be spoken out by the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway as described in . The user will then respond the challenge of this spoken user facing token by repeating it back to the system. The media server speech and biometric token handling secure data handling element of the secure customer service proxy portal will then analyze the response to confirm its validity in order to allow the session to continue. This key delivery and capture routine spoken is incorporated by reference in logical steps shown in and .

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the key delivery and capture routine visual . The key delivery and capture routine visual is connected logically to the secure session servers at access point . In this routine an encrypted user facing token is generated by the security and biometric server at the establishment of a session created by the secure session server .

Once the encrypted user facing token is generated by the security and biometric server it is then passed on to the secure session server and then used to establish the validity of the session by challenging the user for a read back of the an encrypted user facing token once it is rendered at the user terminal device. Such a user facing token may be transmitted to directly to the user s terminal device or it may sent to an alternate device via SMS or email message by example. This visual challenge will be sent to the device via the Session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway as described in . Likewise the visual challenge may be sent to the alternate device mentioned above by the session control voice gateway SMS Chat email gateway as described in . The user will then respond the challenge of this visual user facing token by repeating it back to the system typically by typing a keyboard type response or using buttons on a remote control depending upon the particular user device being handled by the user. The media server speech and biometric token handling secure data handling element of the secure customer service proxy portal will then analyze the response to confirm its validity in order to allow the session to continue. This key delivery and capture routine visual is incorporated by reference in logical steps shown in and .

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the biometric enrollment routine . The biometric enrollment routine is connected logically to the security and biometric server at access point . In this routine a pre supplied enrollment number or Personal Identification Number PIN is employed by the user to start the session. At this point a temporary secure session key is generated by the security and biometric server at the establishment of a session created by the secure session server . The user is then prompted to speak a unique word that is then associated with the user s voice and then stored as an encrypted biometric token security and biometric encryption database . In subsequent sessions this encrypted biometric token will be used to compare with subsequent utterances as part of the aforementioned biometric evocation routine . The dialog in which the user as solicited for a spoken biometric sample which is captured by the system and stored as a token is via the session control voice gateway SMS Chat email gateway as described in . This biometric enrollment routine is described also with reference to .

Another aspect of the multi phased biometric security schema as depicted in is the secure data capture routine . the secure data capture routine is connected logically to the security and biometric server at access point . In this routine all regular input supplied by the user is encrypted for transmission and also stored as encrypted data in the transaction history or the security and biometric encryption database . Depending on the data to be encrypted and the user device employed this secure data capture routine is dependent upon the secure session servers and the security and biometric server to use certain data and instructions stored in the database. For example the vendor IVR protocol database will supply the secure session servers and the security and biometric server with the appropriate instructions for encrypting data from sessions established via the reverse automation server dealing with IVR dialogs. For example the vendor web protocol database will supply the secure session servers and the security and biometric server with the appropriate instructions for encrypting data from sessions established via the reverse automation server dealing with vendor web site dialogs.

For example the social site protocol database will supply the secure session servers and the security and biometric server with the appropriate instructions for encrypting data from sessions established via the reverse automation server dealing with social networking web site dialogs. For example the terminal device database will supply the secure session servers and the security and biometric server with the appropriate instructions for encrypting data from sessions established via the session control voice gateway SMS chat email gateway or the automation control voice gateway web proxy function dealing with user devices. For example the terminal device database will have data on protocols being used with user devices such as the web browser smart phone telephone or multimedia TV Set top box .

As shown in the secure session servers are also logically connected via access point to the reverse automation sever . The secure session servers will pass on tokens keys and encrypted data to the reverse automation server based on the specific security routines explained here. For example instructions to use a specific script that may be stored in the reverse automation scripts and library which is logically connected to the reverse automation server via access point can be done in such a way that the secure data capture routine is employed to encrypt the data sent to the reverse automation gateway in its execution of the script.

At decision branch the system establishes whether or not the user has already been enrolled by using the biometric enrollment routine as explained above with in relation to . If not enrolled the user is directed to enroll in accordance with step as per the logic flow further detailed below with reference to . If the user has already enrolled the logic flow continues to step where the two phased security routine begins as described below with reference to .

At decision branch the determination of pass or fail of the security two phased security routine is made. If the user fails to pass the routine various standard error recovery methods are offered. If standard error recovery methods fail the user is refused further access to the application. If the user passes the two phased security routine the logic flow continues to step .

At step the user is asked to select a persona icon or persona avatar from the screen. The visual attributes of the persona are not contemplated in the scope of the invention. Instead the varied financial personal and social attributes of the persona are in the scope of the invention. A plurality of personas each with different attributes may be created.

At decision branch the user is asked to select a customer service based persona or a social networking based persona. A customer service based persona will be associated with vendor plug ins and a social networking based persona will be associated with social plug ins . If the user chooses to create a social networking based persona the logic flow continues to step which is discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

Otherwise the logic continues as shown. At step the user selects a name for the persona. This name is verified and then saved in the persona resources library ands database . At step the user selects a vendor from a list to be associated with this persona. This vendor attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an account number associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated with this persona. This account number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs a PIN number associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated with this persona. This PIN number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an additional attribute associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated with this persona. This additional attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database .

A variety of attributes may be solicited from the user as it relates to each vendor. This is in keeping with the type of data that may need to be used in the reverse automation of a scripted dialog with a vendor web site or vendor IVR system. This is determined when the service creation and provisioning server is used to create vendor specific reverse automation scripts which are then stored in the reverse automation scripts and library database. Part of the creation of a reverse automation script is the identification of key value pairs and variables that will be stored on behalf of each customer as they are associated with that vendor. For example a reverse automation script may have a placeholder for an account number input. Once captured here the persona resources library and database will provide the secure session servers with the account number which will then be offered to the reverse automation server so it can plug in the account number into the script for that vendor web site or IVR system on behalf of the user. These additional attributes requested at step may be the user s personal preferences for the favored path for the IVR system to take. Alternately these additional attributes may be the user s personal preferences for an alternate favored path the vendor web site is to take. In one embodiment of the invention these attributes will be incorporated into the system so as to allow any variable data that can be associated with any reverse automation script. It is contemplated that the secure customer service proxy portal has the ability to associate variable attributes.

At decision branch the user is asked if additional attributes are to be inputted. If so the logic flow returns to step and otherwise the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is prompted to choose a common reverse automation routine from a menu. such reverse automation routines will have been created and described in the service creation and provisioning server on behalf of the vendor in question. At decision branch the user is asked if more reverse automation routines are to be added. If so the logic flow returns to step but if not the logic continues to decision branch . At decision branch the user is asked if more vendor data is to be entered. If so the logic returns to step and otherwise the logic continues to decision branch . At decision branch the user is asked if data for more personas is to be entered. If so the logic returns to step and if not the logic continues to step .

At step the system synchronizes all of the data collected from the user. This data is stored in the appropriate databases and also distributed in real time to the affected servers so the most recent user selects may be put to use immediately. The common user interface creation of persona corral terminates at this point as the user is returned to step which is the persona creation and editing main menu.

At step the user selects a name for the persona. This name is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user selects a social networking site from a list to be associated with this persona. This vendor attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an account number associated with the selected social networking site and so it is associated also with this persona. This account number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database .

At step the user inputs a PIN number associated with the selected Social Networking Site and so it is associated also with this persona. This PIN number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an additional attribute associated with the selected social networking site and so it is associated also with this persona. This additional attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database .

A variety of attributes may be solicited from the user as it relates to each social networking site. This is in keeping with the type of data that may need to be used in the reverse automation of a scripted dialog with a social networking site. This is determined when the service creation and provisioning server is used to create social networking site specific reverse automation scripts which are then stored in the reverse automation scripts and library database. Part of the creation of a reverse automation script is the identification of key value pairs and variables that will be stored on behalf of each customer as they are associated with that social networking site. For example a reverse automation script may have a placeholder for an account number input. Once captured here the persona resources library and database will provide the secure session servers with the account number which will then be offered to the reverse automation server so it can plug in the account number into the script for that social networking site on behalf of the user. These additional attributes received at step may be the user s personal preferences for the favored path of communication desired to be taken by the social networking site. For example a favored path may be to log on and post a micro blog entry. Alternately these additional attributes at step may be an alternate favored path desired for the social networking site to take. In an embodiment of the invention these attributes will be incorporated into the system so as to allow any variable data that can be associated with any reverse automation script.

At step the user is asked if he wishes to input additional attributes. If he wishes to add additional attributes he is directed back to . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is asked to choose a common reverse automation routine from a menu. Such reverse automation routines will have been created and described in the service creation and provisioning server on behalf of the vendor in question.

At decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input more reverse automation routines. If he wishes to add an additional reverse automation routine he is directed back to step . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more social networking sites. If he wishes to add additional social networking sites he is directed back to step . If he is done with social networking site input the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more personas. If he wishes to add additional personas he is directed back to step . If he is done with persona input the logic flow continues to step .

At step the system synchronizes all of the data collected from the user. This data is stored in the appropriate databases and also distributed in real time to the affected servers so the most recent user selects may be put to use immediately. Then the user is returned to step which is the persona creation and editing main menu.

At decision branch the system establishes whether or not the user has already enrolled in the system by using the biometric enrollment routine as explained in . If the user has not enrolled they are directed to enroll as per the logic flow presented in . If the user has already enrolled the logic flow continues to step . The two phased security routine begins as is described in . At decision branch the determination of pass or fail of the security two phased security routine is made. If the user fails to pass the routine he is offered standard error recovery methods. If standard error recovery methods fail the user is refused further access to the application. If the user passes the Two Phased Security Routine the logic flow in continues to step . At the user is asked to select an IVR Speech response or an embedded device oriented speech response. At decision branch the user is asked to select a customer service based persona or a social networking based persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. A customer service based persona will be associated with vendor plug ins and a social networking based persona will be associated with social plug ins . If the user chooses to create a social networking based persona he is directed as per the logic flow to step . If the user chooses a customer service based persona the logic flow continues to step .

At step the user selects a name for the persona. This selection is provided either with the user spoken input or with touch tones. This name is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user selects a vendor from a list to be associated with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This vendor attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an account number associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This account number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs a PIN number associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This PIN number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an additional attribute associated with the selected vendor and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This additional attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database .

A variety of attributes may be solicited from the user as it relates to each vendor. This is in keeping with the type of data that may need to be used in the reverse automation of a scripted dialog with a vendor web site or vendor IVR system. This is determined when the service creation and provisioning server is used to create vendor specific reverse automation scripts which are then stored in the reverse automation scripts and library database. Part of the creation of a reverse automation script is the identification of key value pairs and variables that will be stored on behalf of each customer as they are associated with that vendor. For example a reverse automation script may have a placeholder for an account number input. Once captured here the persona resources library and database will provide the secure session servers with the account number which will then be offered to the reverse automation server so it can plug in the account number into the script for that vendor web site or IVR system on behalf of the user. These additional attributes at may be the user s personal preferences for the favored path they want the IVR system to take. Alternately these additional attributes at may be the user s personal preferences for an alternate favored path they want the vendor web site to take. In a one embodiment of the invention these attributes will be incorporated into the system so as to allow any variable data that can be associated with any reverse automation script.

At decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input additional attributes. If he wishes to add additional attributes he is directed back to step . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is asked to choose a common reverse automation routine from a menu. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. Such reverse automation routines will have been created and described in the service creation and provisioning server on behalf of the vendor in question.

At decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input more reverse automation routines. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional reverse automation routine he is directed back to step . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to decision branch . At decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more vendors. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional vendors he is directed back to step . If he is done with vendor input the logic flow continues to decision branch . At decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more personas. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional personas he is directed back to step . If he is done with persona input the logic flow continues to step .

At the System synchronizes all of the data collected from the user. This data is stored in the appropriate databases and also distributed in real time to the affected servers so the most recent user selects may be put to use immediately. The user is then returned to step which is the persona creation and editing main menu for telephone or speech device.

At decision branch the system establishes whether or not the user has already enrolled in the system by using the biometric enrollment routine as explained above in relation to . If the user has not enrolled they are directed to enroll as per the logic flow presented in . If the user has already enrolled the logic flow continues to step . At step the two phased security routine begins as is further detailed below with reference to . At decision branch the determination of pass or fail of the security two phased security routine is made. If the user fails to pass the routine they are offered standard error recovery methods. If standard error recovery methods fail the user is refused further access to the application.

If the user passes the two phased security routine the logic flow continues to step . At the user is asked to select an IVR speech response or an embedded device oriented speech response. At step the user selects a name for the persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This name is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user selects a social networking site from a list to be associated with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This vendor attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an account number associated with the selected social networking site and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This account number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs a PIN number associated with the selected social networking site and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This PIN number attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database . At step the user inputs an additional attribute associated with the selected social networking site and so it is associated also with this persona. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. This additional attribute is verified and then saved in the persona resources library and database .

A variety of attributes may be solicited from the user as it relates to each social networking site. This is in keeping with the type of data that may need to be used in the reverse automation of a scripted dialog with a social networking site. This is determined when the service creation and provisioning server is used to create social networking site specific reverse automation scripts which are then stored in the reverse automation scripts and library database. Part of the creation of a reverse automation script is the identification of key value pairs and variables that will be stored on behalf of each customer as they are associated with that Social Networking Site. For example a reverse automation script may have a placeholder for an account number input. Once captured here the persona resources library and database will provide the secure session servers with the account number which will then be offered to the reverse automation server so it can plug in the account number into the script for that social networking site on behalf of the user. These additional attributes at step may be the user s personal preferences for the favored path of communication they want that social networking site to take. For example a favored path may be to log on and post a microblog entry. Alternately these additional attributes at step may be an alternate favored path they want the social networking site to take. In an embodiment of the invention these attributes will be incorporated into the system so as to allow any variable data that can be associated with any reverse automation script.

Next at decision branch the user is asked if he wishes to input additional attributes. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional attributes he is directed back to . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to step . At step the user is asked to choose a common reverse automation routine from a menu. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. Such reverse automation routines will have been created and described in the service creation and provisioning server on behalf of the vendor in question.

At decision block the user is asked if he wishes to input more reverse automation routines. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional reverse automation routine he is directed back to step . If he is done with attribute input the logic flow continues to decision block . Here the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more social networking sites. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional social networking sites he is directed back to step . If he is done with social networking site input the logic flow continues to decision block where the user is asked if he wishes to input data for more personas. This selection is provided either with the user s spoken input or with touch tones. If he wishes to add additional personas he is directed back to step . If he is done with persona input the logic flow continues to step . At step the system synchronizes all of the data collected from the user. This data is stored in the appropriate databases and also distributed in real time to the affected servers so the most recent user selects may be put to use immediately. The user is returned to step which is the persona creation and editing main menu for a telephone or speech device.

At decision branch the system will present the user with a prompt asking for the user to verbally enunciate a challenge word or phrase. In an embodiment of the invention this challenge word or phrase will have been randomly chosen. Such a challenge word will be generated by the system using random phrase generator based on a pre programmed corpus of recorded phonemes or whole words. These utterances are stored in the security and biometric encryption database . Likewise after the user responds the user uttered phrase will be stored in the security and biometric encryption database for later comparison when the user is subsequently challenged to start subsequent sessions. These comparisons will be governed based on the session established by the secure session servers . The establishment of a secure session is described above with reference to which shows the multi phased biometric security schema .

Also at decision branch the system will provide an alternative for providing the prompt asking for the challenge word or phrase. In one case the system will announce the challenge word or phrase verbally as in and in another case the system will provide a screen based presentation of the same word or phrase as in .

At decision branch the system will ask the user to choose if they want the challenge word or phrase to be presented via an SMS message to the user s registered SMS device or whether the user wants the challenge word or phrase to be presented via the native user interface of the particular device that is registered for that user. The terminal device protocol server holds the particular protocols and methods for delivering such information to the user as described in and these terminal device data are also stored in the terminal device database as described in . If the user chose an SMS message the system will send the SMS to the registered device as per . If the user chooses for the delivery method to be via the native screen of the user device the challenge word or phrase will be presented on the native device.

At step regardless as to the presentation method chosen by the user the user will respond with spoken confirmation on the presented challenge word or phrase provided by the system. At step the biometric token thus collected from the user will be sent to the security and biometric server and follow the protocol described in called the multi phased biometric security schema . Then at step the biometric token will be stored in the security and biometric encryption database for later comparison when the user is subsequently challenged to start subsequent sessions. At step the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token by prompting for it to be spoken again this time verifying the process by doing the aforementioned comparison that is described in called the multi phased biometric security schema .

At decision branch the system provides an error recovery routine to determine if the user forgot the word if the utterance did not properly compare to the stored biometric token. If there is a failure the user will return to step to re enroll. If the comparison is a success the logic flow continues to step where as part of the error recovery routine the user is asked by the system to repeat the challenge word or phrase. At step as part of the error recovery routine the user speaks the challenge word or phrase. Then at step the system verifies the success of the routine. If the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token the enrollment is complete otherwise the verification process repeats at or aborts based on the implementation preference of the practitioner.

At decision branch the system will present the user with a choice of having the challenge word verbally enunciated over the phone or alternately sent to a registered SMS device. If the user chooses the SMS device the challenge word or phrase will be transmitted via SMS as per step otherwise it will be spoken via voice prompt over the phone. In an embodiment of the invention this challenge word or phrase will have been randomly chosen. Such a challenge word will be generated by the system using random phrase generator based on a pre programmed corpus of recorded phonemes or whole words. These utterances are stored in the security and biometric encryption database . The terminal device protocol server holds the particular protocols and methods for delivering such information to the user as described in and these terminal device data are also stored in the terminal device database as described above with reference to.

At step regardless of the presentation method chosen by the user the user will respond with spoken confirmation on the presented challenge word or phrase provided by the system. at step the biometric token thus collected from the user will be sent to the security and biometric server and follow the protocol described in called the multi phased biometric security schema . At step the biometric token will be stored in the security and biometric encryption database for later comparison when the user is subsequently challenged to start subsequent sessions. Next at step the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token by prompting for it to be spoken again this time verifying the process by doing the aforementioned comparison that is described in called the multi phased biometric security schema .

At decision branch the system provides an error recovery routine to determine if the user forgot the word if the utterance did not properly compare to the stored biometric token. If there is a failure the user will return to step to re enroll. If the comparison is a success the logic flow continues to step where as part of the error recovery routine the user is asked by the system to repeat the challenge word or phrase. At step as part of the error recovery routine the user speaks the challenge word or phrase. Then at decision branch the system verifies the success of the routine. If the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token the enrollment is complete otherwise the verification process repeats at step or aborts based on the implementation preference of the practitioner.

At decision branch the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token. If the routine fails the system prompts the user to retry as in step otherwise the logic flow continues to step .

At step the system goes into the second phase of the Two Phased Security Routine in which a secure session key is generated and presented to the user. This is done using the protocols outlined in the session specific key generation routine as described above referencing the block diagram of .

At decision branch the system will provide an alternative for presenting the secure session key token. In one case the system will present the token for the secure session key as per the native capabilities of the embedded speech device registered to the user as per step . The terminal device protocol server holds the particular protocols and methods for delivering such information to the user as described above referencing the block diagram of and these terminal device data are also stored in the terminal device database as described above with reference to . In another case the system will present the token for the secure session key via an SMS message to the user s registered SMS device as per step .

At step regardless as to the presentation method chosen by the user the user will respond with spoken confirmation on the presented token provided by the system. At decision branch the system confirms the successful capture and verification of the token for the secure session key. If the token is verified the security routine is complete otherwise the logic flow continues to decision branch .

At step the system provides an error recovery routine to determine if the user forgot the word if the utterance did not properly compare to the automatically generated secure session key. If the user forgot the word he will be returned to step for the key to be resent. If the user did not forget the word but the verification nonetheless failed the logic flow continues to step where as part of the error recovery routine the user challenged once again to repeat the word or phrase to compare to the secure session key. Next at step as part of the error recovery routine the user speaks the word or phrase again. At step the system verifies the success of the routine. If the system confirms the successful capture of the Biometric Token the enrollment is complete otherwise the verification process repeats at step or aborts based on the implementation preference of the practitioner.

At decision branch the System confirms the successful capture of the biometric token. If the routine fails the system prompts the user to retry as in otherwise the logic flow continues to step where the system goes into the second phase of the two phased security routine in which a secure session key is generated and presented to the user. This is done using the protocols outlined in the session specific key generation routine as described above with reference to .

At decision branch the system will provide an alternative for presenting the secure session key token. In one case the system will present the token for the secure session key via a speech prompt as in a regular Interactive Voice Response IVR dialog as per step . the terminal device protocol server holds the particular protocols and methods for delivering such information to the user as previously described and these terminal device data are also stored in the terminal device database . In another case the system will present the token for the secure session key via an SMS message to the user s registered SMS device as per step .

At step regardless as to the presentation method chosen by the user the user will respond with spoken confirmation on the presented token provided by the System.

Next at decision branch the system confirms the successful capture and verification of the token for the secure session key. If the token is verified the security routine is complete otherwise the logic flow continues to decision branch .

In decision branch the system provides an error recovery routine to determine if the user forgot the word if the utterance did not properly compare to the automatically generated secure session key. If the user forgot the word he will be returned to step for the key to be resent. If the user did not forget the word but the verification nonetheless failed the logic continues to step where as part of the error recovery routine the user challenged once again to repeat the word or phrase to compare to the secure session key. At step as part of the error recovery routine the user speaks the word or phrase again.

At decision branch the system verifies the success of the routine. If the system confirms the successful capture of the biometric token the enrollment is complete otherwise the verification process repeats at step or aborts based on the implementation preference of the practitioner.

The customer service routine continues at when the user selects a particular persona icon or avatar based on the precepts of the common user interface aggregator matrix architecture. Once the persona is selected the user associates the persona with the icon representing the vendor in question. The practitioner will note that the association of a persona with more than one vendor is allowed. For example if the chosen persona was programmed by the selected script to log on and get an account balance as the core script function the association of that persona with two vendors would cause the system to fetch the account balance from both vendors and so on. None of the myriad routines possible should be limited in scope by way of the example set forth.

At step the requisite encrypted session key and security procedures are performed by the secure session servers and the security and biometric server as described in the multi phased biometric security schema .

At decision branch the system asks the user to choose between a contact center type of dialog for customer service or a web based dialog for customer service. In one embodiment of the invention a contact center type of dialog will consist of transactions with the vendor s Interactive Voice Response IVR system contact center system and ultimately an agent if live intervention is required. Such transactions will be done in a reverse automation mode that is with the secure customer service proxy portal doing the work of logging on to these systems supplying passwords automatically choosing pre defined menu choices and even having an automated whisper dialog with the agent. All of this is being done on behalf of the customer or caller who can go about his other business while these automated routines are happening.

Also in one embodiment of the invention a web based dialog may consist of similar steps as in a contact center type of dialog with the possible exception of the IVR transaction. Similarly the log on and automatic passing of the requisite passwords and other identifiers will be done by the secure customer service proxy portal on behalf of the customer. However instead of traversing voice based menus that may ultimately lead to a voice conversation with an agent the web based dialog may instead request a chat dialog on behalf of the customer. In such a dialog the secure customer service proxy portal will feed the chat interface on the web site a string of predetermined chat messages in order to automate all or at least some of the dialog with a chat based agent. All of these robotic dialogs that are done by the secure customer service proxy portal on behalf of the customer are based on reverse automation scripts stored in the database as per the reverse automation scripts library as described above with reference to . In addition to these scripts the protocols required to communicate with various web sites and IVR systems are also stored in the database such as in the vendor IVR protocol database .

These scripts and protocols are loaded into and executed on by a variety of servers in the secure customer service proxy portal . For example the secure session servers manage the overall session management set up and tear down of sessions and the handling of security on those sessions along with the security biometric server . For example the vendor IVR protocol server and the reverse automation server both further detailed in work together with the secure session servers and the reverse automation gateway to determine what scripts and what dialogs need to be executed on. At the level of the individual reverse automation gateway the script instructions are broken down into individual commands which are fed to the reverse automation gateway as customer emulator scripts. What customer emulator scripts are used depends on what vendor is chosen by the user when the user associates a persona from the persona corral with a vendor icon using the user interface aggregator matrix .

In another aspect of the invention customer emulator script instructions and the reverse automation server use of reverse automation scripts may manipulate vendor web sites in a hybrid fashion. For example it is not uncommon for web sites to have web based callback technology installed so users can type in their phone number which then triggers a live phone call back to the customer. Still other web sites may use Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP technology which allows customers to establish a live phone call using the web as the carriage for the call with an associated VoIP phone instead of the traditional Public Switched Telephone Network. The invention contemplates these scenarios as all of them can be robotically automated on behalf of customers using the aforementioned reverse automation scripts outlined here. The practitioner will find myriad approaches to connect customers with vendor web sites contact centers and IVR systems utilizing the invention. None of these examples here will be at the exclusion of other possible communications modes with the use of automated robotic scripts can be implemented.

At step based on the selection of a contact center type dialog with an IVR system the appropriate reverse automation scripts are loaded in the reverse automation server . Then at step based on the selection of a web type dialog the appropriate reverse automation scripts are loaded in the reverse automation server . At step the reverse automation server in tandem with the secure session servers sends script instructions to the appropriate reverse automation gateway . Such scripts are used by the reverse automation gateway to dynamically assemble customer emulation scripts as depicted in .

At step the reverse automation gateway establishes a secure IVR or web session on behalf of the user. This may include but is not limited to the secure passing of customer personal account numbers and PIN numbers. Such numbers will have been collected from the user in a previous secure session in the creation of the customer s persona corral as described above.

At step the reverse automation gateway will traverse either IVR system or web site menus and provide additional information to the vendor in an automated fashion. Such robotic traversal of the customer facing IVR system or Web site is being executed upon on behalf of the customer but still the customer is not directly connected to the IVR system or Web site. At this point it is only the secure customer service proxy portal that is connected to the vendor IVR system or web site via the reverse automation gateway .

Then at step the reverse automation gateway may whisper information to the agent who finally answers the phone after the automated traversal of the IVR system. Such may also be the case in a VoIP dialog propagated with a similar web based automated traversal. This whisper is achieved by the play out of pre recorded prompts. Such play out of prompts may be achieved by the media server function. For example the whisper may say to the live agent I am calling on behalf of Mr. Jones and have entered the required account number. Will you please stay on the line so I can go get him on the phone. In this specific scenario the customer service routine may end when the reverse automation gateway facilitates a live conference call between the agent and the caller. Such a conference can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for making a phone call using the phone numbers stored in the terminal device database can happen. The network interface connections and means to facilitate such a connection is described above with reference to and . The practitioner will be familiar with the common use of a whisper device. It is well known that any IVR system may be natively programmed to pass caller ID information to an agent. This is well established and well known industry practice. However in the context of this invention a whisper is not happening as a native IVR function but rather under the control of an entirely separate system acting on behalf of an individual caller or many callers. Such whisper devices may be programmed into the reverse automation scripts and subsequent customer emulator scripts so as to adapt to a plurality of IVR systems. Assuming the whisper function is a precursor to other activity the logic flow of continues otherwise the customer service routine ends when the parties hang up the phone after they are connected.

At step the reverse automation gateway may collect information from the live agent who finally answers the phone after the automated traversal of the IVR system. Such may also be the case in a VoIP dialog propagated with a similar web based automated traversal. This collection of data may come in the form of a speech recognition dialog or in the form of a touch tone response but will not be limited to these response methods. Such play out of prompts and collection of spoken responses either by speech input or touch tone input may be achieved by the media server function described above with reference to . For example a whisper may be used to solicit an answer from the live agent Mr. Jones would like to know if his payroll deposit has been made today. Please say yes or no. The agent may then speak as into an IVR system. In fact the reverse automaton gateway is behaving as an IVR system but in this circumstance making the agent do what a customer would normally have to do that is input information to a machine. The questions asked by the reverse automation server are created as part of the script building and service creation routine done by the administrator in the service creation provisioning server. Such scripts are stored on behalf of each vendor. Likewise the scripts act as templates that are then associated with each user when the user creates his persona corral.

At step the answers to the queries collected at are now sent to the user. This sending of data can be achieved in a variety of ways but will not be limited to an SMS message sent to the user s registered terminal device via a whisper in which the system calls the user and speaks the answer via a spoken message on an embedded speech device on the user s terminal device or via a visual message sent to the native screen of the registered terminal device. The practitioner will discover no limit to the uses of the reverse automation scripts and approach to customer service dialogs associated with this invention.

Such messaging to the end user terminal devices can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for sending specific messages to devices is done based on data stored in the terminal device database . The network interface connections and means to facilitate such messaging is described in both and . Assuming the additional data collection function is a precursor to other activity the logic flow continues to decision branch otherwise the customer service routine ends when the user retrieves the sent data.

At decision branch the system may optionally ask the customer if a live discussion with the agent is desired. If the customer does not want a live call the session ends otherwise the logic flow continues to step where the reverse automation gateway facilitates a live conference call between the agent and the caller. Such a conference can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for making a phone call using the phone numbers stored in the terminal device database can happen. The network interface connections and means to facilitate such a connection is described in both and . The customer service routine session ends at the termination of the phone call between the agent and the customer.

With reference to the logic flow for launching a secure transaction using the common user interface for a social networking oriented transaction begins with a step . At step the user chooses between partaking in the biometric security routine via an embedded speech device or via a telephone. If the user chooses telephone the routine described above with reference to called two phased security routine telephone is used otherwise the routine described above with reference to called Two phased security routine embedded speech device is used.

The customer service routine continues with step when the user selects a particular persona icon or avatar based on the precepts of the common user interface aggregator matrix architecture as described above with reference to . Once the persona is selected the user associates the persona with the icon representing the social networking site in question. The practitioner will note that the association of a persona with more than one social networking site is possible. For example if the chosen persona was programmed by the selected script to log on and post a micro blog as the core script function the association of that persona with two social networking sites would allow the blog post to be automatically posted on both sites and so on. None of the myriad routines possible should be limited in scope by way of the example set forth herein. Next in step all of the requisite encrypted session key and security procedures are performed by the secure session servers and the security biometric server as described in the multi phased biometric security schema described above with reference to .

At decision branch the system asks the user to choose between a speech IVR type of dialog or a traditional web based dialog for interacting with the social networking site. In an embodiment of the invention a speech IVR type of dialog will consist of transactions with the social networking site s IVR system and ultimately an agent if live intervention is required. Such transactions will be done in a reverse automation mode that is with the secure customer service proxy portal doing the work of logging on to these systems supplying passwords automatically choosing pre defined menu choices and even having an automated whisper dialog with the agent. All of this is being done on behalf of the customer or caller who can go about his other business while these automated routines are happening. Also in an embodiment of the invention a web based dialog may consist of similar steps as in a speech IVR type of dialog with the possible exception of the IVR transaction. Similarly the log on and automatic passing of the requisite passwords and other identifiers will be done by the secure customer service proxy portal on behalf of the customer. However instead of traversing voice based menus that may ultimately lead to a voice conversation with an agent the Web based dialog may instead request a chat dialog on behalf of the customer. In such a dialog the secure customer service proxy portal will feed the chat interface on the social networking site a string of predetermined chat messages in order to automate all or at least some of the dialog to establish a session with other social networking site visitors. Such a dialog may be a simple log on sequence wherein the rest of the dialog could be accomplished live by the user.

In fact if more than one social networking site were associated with the persona the user may have a single chat window in which a conversation with visitors of both sites were governed. All of these robotic dialogs that are done by the Secure customer service proxy portal on behalf of the customer are based on reverse automation scripts stored in the database as per the reverse automation scripts library as described above with reference to . In addition to these scripts the protocols required to communicate with various web sites and IVR systems are also stored in the database such as in the vendor IVR protocol database also depicted in . These scripts and protocols are loaded into and executed on by a variety of servers in the secure customer service proxy portal . For example the secure session servers manage the overall session management set up and tear down of sessions and the handling of security on those sessions along with the security biometric server . For example the vendor IVR protocol server and the reverse automation server both depicted in work together with the secure session servers and the reverse automation gateway to determine what scripts and what dialogs need to be executed on. At the level of the individual reverse automation gateway the script instructions are broken down into individual commands which are fed to the reverse automation gateway as customer emulator scripts as described above with reference to . What customer emulator scripts are used depends on what social networking site or sites is chosen by the user when the user associates a persona from the persona corral with one or more social networking site icons using the user interface aggregator matrix .

In another aspect of the invention customer emulator script instructions and the reverse automation server use of reverse automation scripts may manipulate social networking sites and associated IVR systems in a hybrid fashion. For example it is not uncommon for web sites to have web based callback technology installed so users can type in their phone number which then triggers a live phone call back to the customer. Still other web sites may use Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP technology which allows customers to establish a live phone call using the web as the carriage for the call with an associated VoIP phone instead of the traditional Public Switched Telephone Network. The invention contemplates these scenarios as all of them can be robotically automated on behalf of customers using the aforementioned reverse automation scripts outlined here. The practitioner will find myriad approaches to connect customers with social networking sites and IVR systems utilizing the invention. None of these examples here will be at the exclusion of other possible communications modes with the use of automated robotic scripts can be implemented.

At step based on the selection of a speech or IVR dialog the appropriate Reverse automation scripts are loaded in the reverse automation server . At step based on the selection of a web type dialog the appropriate reverse automation scripts are loaded in the reverse automation server . Then at step the reverse automation server in tandem with the secure session servers sends script instructions to the appropriate reverse automation gateway . Such scripts are used by the reverse automation gateway to dynamically assemble customer emulation scripts as depicted in .

At the reverse automation gateway establishes a secure IVR or web session on behalf of the user. This may include but is not limited to the secure passing of customer personal account numbers and PIN numbers. Such numbers will have been collected from the user in a previous secure session in the creation of the customer s persona corral as depicted in and . At step the reverse automation gateway will traverse either IVR system or web site menus and provide additional information to the social networking site in an automated fashion. Such robotic traversal of the social networking IVR system or web site is being executed upon on behalf of the customer but still the customer is not directly connected to the IVR system or web site. At this point it is only the secure customer service proxy portal that is connected to the social networking IVR system or web site via the reverse automation gateway .

At step the reverse automation gateway may make a phone call to and then whisper a greeting and conference announcement to another social networking site user. In fact the reverse automation gateway may have instructions to do this with multiple users in order to set up a live conference call between those other users and the user of the secure customer service proxy portal. Such may also be the case in a VoIP dialog propagated with a similar web based automated traversal. This whisper is achieved by the play out of pre recorded prompts. Such play out of prompts may be achieved by the media server function described above with reference to . For example the whisper may say to the live agent I am calling on behalf of Mr. Jones who would like you to join a conference with himself and other Social Networking users. Will you please stay on the line so I can go get him on the phone. In this specific scenario the social networking routine may end when the reverse automation gateway facilitates a live conference call between the other users and the user of this invention. Such a conference can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for making a phone call using the phone numbers stored in the terminal device database can happen. The network interface connections and means to facilitate such a connection is described above with reference to both and . The practitioner will be familiar with the common use of a whisper device. It is well known that any IVR system may be natively programmed to pass caller ID information to an agent. This is well established and well known industry practice. However in the context of this invention a whisper is not happening as a native IVR function but rather under the control of an entirely separate system acting on behalf of an individual caller or many callers. Such whisper devices may be programmed into the reverse automation scripts and subsequent customer emulator scripts so as to adapt to a plurality of IVR systems. Assuming the whisper function is a precursor to other activity the logic flow continues to step otherwise the social networking routine ends when the parties hang up the phone after they are connected.

At step the reverse automation gateway may collect information from other social networking site users via IVR type dialogs or web dialogs. In one aspect of the invention such a dialog may also be the case in a VoIP dialog propagated with a similar web based automated traversal. This collection of data may come in the form of a speech recognition dialog or in the form of a touch tone response but will not be limited to these response methods. Such play out of prompts and collection of spoken responses either by speech input or touch tone input may be achieved by the media server function depicted in . For example a whisper may be used to solicit an answer from another social networking site user Mr. Jones would like to know if you want to see his daily microblog. The agent may then speak as into an IVR system. In fact the reverse automaton gateway is behaving as an IVR system but in this circumstance having a dialog with another social networking site user on behalf of this user. The questions asked by the reverse automation server are created as part of the script building and service creation routine done by the administrator in the service creation provisioning server. Such scripts are stored on behalf of each social networking site. Likewise the scripts act as templates that are then associated with each user when the user creates his persona corral as depicted in and .

At step the answer to the queries collected at are now sent to the user. This sending of data can be achieved in a variety of ways but will not be limited to an SMS message sent to the user s registered terminal device via a whisper in which the system calls the user and speaks the answer via a spoken message on an embedded speech device on the users terminal device or via a visual message sent to the native screen of the registered terminal device. The practitioner will discover no limit to the uses of the reverse automation scripts and approach to customer service dialogs associated with this invention. Such messaging to the end user terminal devices can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for sending specific messages to devices is done based on data stored in the terminal device database . The network interface connections and means to facilitate such messaging is described in both and . Assuming the additional data collection function is a precursor to other activity the logic flow continues to decision branch otherwise the social networking routine ends when the user retrieves the sent data.

At decision branch the system may optionally ask the customer if a live discussion with other social networking site users is desired. If the customer does not want a live call the session ends otherwise the logic flow continues to step . where the reverse automation gateway facilitates a live conference call between the chosen social networking site users and this user. Such a conference can be achieved by use of the reverse automation scripts so instructions for making conferences using the phone numbers stored in the terminal device database can happen. The network interface connections and means to facilitate such a connection is described in both and . The social networking routine session ends at the termination of the phone call between the chosen social networking site users and this user.

The particulars shown herein are by way of example only for purposes of illustrative discussion and are presented in the cause of providing what is believed to be the most useful and readily understood description of the principles and conceptual aspects of the various embodiments set forth in the present disclosure. In this regard no attempt is made to show any more detail than is necessary for a fundamental understanding of the different features of the various embodiments the description taken with the drawings making apparent to those skilled in the art how these may be implemented in practice.

