---

title: Method and system for providing a radio station locator service
abstract: An approach is provided to present station location information to one or more mobile devices. A request is received to provide station location information to a mobile device. Station location information is generated, in response to the request, the station location information including station location information of one or more radio stations that correspond to the location of the mobile device. The station location information is transmitted to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020535&OS=09020535&RS=09020535
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09020535
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101101
---
Service providers are continually challenged to develop new and innovative services to remain competitive. Consumer adoption of mobile devices such as cellular telephones laptop computers pagers personal digital assistants and the like is increasing. These devices can be used for a diversity of purposes ranging from basic communications to conducting business transactions to managing entertainment media as well as a host of other tasks. Additional enhancements such as location awareness features e.g. global positioning system GPS tracking also enable mobile device users to monitor their position and present their location via a local display. Such mobile technology have enabled users to access rich media services over a data communications infrastructure such as the Internet. However little effort has been expended to integrate mobile technology with mature services such as broadcast radio. There are numerous broadcast radio stations available to users e.g. news weather talk radio sports music other forms of entertainment etc. all of which have limited geographical constraints for their radio broadcasts. Furthermore users often may not know what broadcast stations are available especially while traveling to unfamiliar areas. This is particularly challenging with the variety and routing changes in broadcast radio programming. Unfortunately users in such a situation must resort to utilizing the radio tuner to scan for local radio stations that suits their listening preferences. This random tuning for radio stations can be time consuming and serve as a deterrent to listening to the radio all together.

Therefore there is a need for an approach that can efficiently and effectively locate broadcast stations.

A preferred apparatus method and software for providing station location information services for mobile devices are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to tracking mobile devices and providing mobile devices with station location information it is contemplated that various exemplary embodiments are also applicable to stationary devices as well as other applications.

It is observed that portable device users who enjoy an increased level of mobility often travel to new locations and may desire to tune into available radio broadcasts. Traditionally when a user of a portable device and or a radio tuner desired to tune into a radio broadcast for whatever the reason the use of conventional approaches to obtain station location information or at least identify a radio station has yielded distractions and time consuming efforts if successful. Moreover a search for a radio station may result in a dangerous distraction if the user is operating a vehicle for transportation as the user would have to divert his or her attention away from operating the vehicle for a prolonged period of time.

Therefore the approach of system according to certain exemplary embodiments stems from the recognition that consumers can benefit from remote tracking services whereby subscribers or users are given access to platform for obtaining station location information pertaining to one or more radio stations to be presented on their devices such as one or more mobile devices. The station location information may be in the form of a list of one or more radio stations which is presentable to the subscribers via a visual display and or audio presentation. For instance subscribers may access the platform for submitting spatial positioning information e.g. an address latitude longitude elevation etc. corresponding to the location of a device in order to receive station location information of available radio stations and or tune a radio interface e.g. a radio tuner of the device to tune into one or more available radio stations. This spatial positioning information may be overlaid on for instance a topological depiction of a geographic area surrounding the location of the device which may also be appended with various cartographic features such as buildings landmarks roadways signs and the like or provided with directions to the location of the device. Available radio stations may include any broadcast radio stations that broadcast radio signals that capable of reception in an environment of the mobile device. Subscribers may also be given access to the platform to access and or update subscription information and or a user profile. The user profile could provide various information corresponding to the subscriber such as but not limited to user preferences access codes subscriber history and subscription information. For example a user profile may store in a user profile preferences for favorite radio stations radio station format e.g. news traffic music sports music genre e.g. classical rock hip hop country radio personalities e.g. local radio hosts nationally syndicated hosts etc. Still further the platform may utilize an application to automatically generate these user preferences such as by communicating with other on line services of the user e.g. an on line music store that maintains musical preferences and purchase history .

In step the mobile device receives a suggested list of radio stations such list can be generated based on the location of the mobile device and optionally the information stored in a user profile. The generation of the list of radio station may originate with a request from the subscriber or may be an automated response from another network entity e.g. platform or computing device . The list of radio stations may categorize the radio stations by station frequency station call letters station address station contact information station coverage program content metadata and advertisement frequency and any combination thereof. For example a list of radio stations generated for a user having preferences for news and classical music that are stored in a user profile may receive a list of various news stations and music stations that play classical musical.

In step the user can specify further refinements of the radio stations through a menu driven series of prompts for user input. For example the radio station list may include several options for narrowing the generated radio station list. This capability is further detailed with respect to . Upon specifying the particular refinement options the platform provides a more refined list per step . As a result the user may then tune the nearby radio equipment using this refined list. Alternatively if the mobile device includes a radio tuner the user may select the radio station and tune the mobile device via an application protocol interface API . Such radio station information is updated continually based on the location of the device thereby permitting the subscriber to efficiently find a radio station that suits the user s preference.

GUI includes a text box that illustrates a menu of optional programming associated with available radio stations within the vicinity of the mobile device . In this example the following options are provided to the user 1 traffic weather finder 2 talk radio finder 3 sports radio finder 4 music and 5 list builder. In one embodiment these options are defined according to the user profile. Under option 1 selection of this traffic traffic finder feature specifies the particular radio stations that are classified as traffic and weather stations such programming may be supplemented with information such as a phone number or SMS contact specifying who or what entity to contact to obtain information or news relating to traffic accidents or road conditions.

Upon selection of option 2 an expanded list of sub categories can be displayed to fine tune the user s search for the desired radio stations. For example under talk radio these sub categories may include the following political spiritual and financial. Likewise option 3 associated with sports radio finder the sub categories of sports talk and game broadcast schedule may be presented.

In addition to providing radio station information various sophisticated features may be layered with the radio station locator services. For instance under option 4 music a host of features can be offered playlist information relating to the past present and or future programming associated with available radio stations find a local station with particular song artist find similar artist song genre contact information to request a particular song from the available radio station. It is noted that such additional features can be provided through radio station locator platform .

According to certain embodiments platform can also supply a list builder feature option 5 whereby a list of stations can be dynamically generated from all stations within the current proximity of the mobile device . Moreover this option can also build navigable list of stations.

In this example mobile phone includes one or more transducers e.g. speakers to output audible signals to the user. Cursor buttons keypad and microphone enable users to interact with GUI of display . As such mobile device is in exemplary embodiments also capable of speech synthesis and voice recognition. Moreover the display can be a touch screen such that controllers and buttons can be readily activated.

Although the above GUI is shown and described with respect to a mobile device it is contemplated the GUI can be provided by anyone of the user devices of for example.

Returning to in some embodiments system facilitates remote mobile device tracking by enabling subscribers or users to access platform via one or more client devices e.g. computing device voice station or another mobile device not shown to register to the station locator services of system as well as to create customize and manage one or more user profiles stored to for example user profiles repository or any other suitable storage location of or accessible to the components or facilities of system . In this manner subscribers may submit requests to platform in order to remotely subscribe their mobile devices to the radio locator service. Subsequently platform may generate one or more one or more messages to provide station location information e.g. radio station listing to these devices and or control signals to remotely activate one or more applications or application programming interfaces API on mobile devices in support of this service. The one or more messages may include one or more lists of available radio stations. The messages and control signals may be transmitted to mobile devices over one or more of networks such as transmitted over one or more of networks as part of one or more API directed messages e.g. API short messaging service SMS directed messages . It is noted that platform is described in more detail in accordance with .

In certain exemplary embodiments access to platform may be obtained via any suitable portal interface such as a voice portal or a web portal. For example a networked remote application for implementing the portal may be deployed via platform however it is contemplated that another facility or component of system such as a frontend middleware or backend server may deploy remote application and consequently interface with platform . As such it is contemplated that remote application may be implemented on one or more of client devices and or and thereby configured to interface with platform . In certain embodiments one or more remote applications may function in conjunction with one another to achieve the features and functionalities of system such as one or more of the processes described herein for providing station location information to mobile devices .

The portal may include or provide users with the ability to access configure manage and store user profile information to user profiles repository as well as the ability to remotely control configure tune and or track their mobile devices . For example a user may receive station location information in the form of a list of multiple radio stations at a mobile device by initiating such services from another user device and or . As such platform may be configured to receive or retrieve tracking content from mobile devices and thereby store this tracking and or a history of radio station preferences and consumption content to for example radio station repository . It is contemplated that such information may be additionally or alternatively stored to any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components or facilities of system . Further tracking content may generally relate to any signals or information retrieved or received from mobile devices that have been or currently are being remotely controlled configured monitored tracked etc. In this manner the portal may provide subscribers with access to radio station repository so that these subscribers can readily determine which stations are available to them at the various geographic locations.

As seen in platform includes remote application for generating message that may be received by mobile device . The messages may include station location information corresponding to one or more radio stations within the environment of the mobile device . In addition the remote application may provide commands instructions parameters and or signals hereinafter collectively referred to as control signals that may be executed on or by mobile device via API s . These control signals may be utilized to remotely activate API s to track configure monitor or tune mobile device in response to for instance a request to track configure monitor or tune mobile device by an authorized subscriber of the station location information services of system . In this manner the control signals may be utilized to generate store or otherwise implement configuration information based on received control signal s . According to one embodiment control signals may also be utilized to tune a radio tuner of mobile device to tune into one or more broadcast radio stations. The station location information may be presented in various formats including a list of radio stations categorized by generic criteria and or by predetermined subscriber criteria. Station location information may include station frequency station call letters station address station contact information station coverage program content metadata and advertisement frequency and any combination thereof corresponding to one or more radio stations within the environment surrounding the mobile device which may be utilized by a subscriber to satisfy their listening desires.

In other instances remote application may generate control signals to remotely activating API s on mobile device to cause mobile device to return spatial positioning information e.g. an address latitude longitude elevation etc. corresponding to a location of mobile device . For example users of mobile devices may access the remote application via another user device and or to request receipt of station location information corresponding to stations within the environment surrounding the mobile device . Accordingly mobile device may be configured to determine corresponding spatial positioning information through conventional satellite positioning system SPS technology such as GPS technology however any suitable navigational or location determination technology may be utilized such as advanced forward link trilateration A FLT assisted GPS A GPS enhanced cellular identification CELL ID wireless area network WLAN positioning etc. As is well known SPS technology utilizes a constellation of satellites that transmit signals to receivers not shown of for example one or more mobile devices so that the receivers may determine corresponding spatial positions or locations speeds directions and or timing for mobile devices . Mobile devices may report this information to platform to facilitate the remote control and or tracking services of system . It is also noted that platform may poll or receive such spatial positioning information from mobile devices in real time so as to provide presence service features related to mobile devices . As such the location of for instance mobile device may be detected without mobile device having to initiate a voice call or other like communication session. Thus platform may be configured to present received and or retrieved spatial positioning information to subscribers in addition to generated station location information such as via one or more GUI s . It is also noted that spatial positioning information may be stored to user profiles repository or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to system .

Accordingly to particular embodiments spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device may be overlaid on for instance a topological depiction of a geographic area surrounding the location of mobile device which may also be appended with various cartographic features such as buildings landmarks roadways signs and the like or provided with directions to the location of mobile device .

Subscribers may also be given access to the platform to remotely activate API s on mobile devices to control or configure one or more features of the device. For example API s may be remotely activated to tune a radio tuner not shown of mobile device to one or more radio stations as well as store the station location information of the one or more radio stations to for instance a memory of the mobile device or a networked repository such as radio station repository . Subscribers may also be enabled to erase a memory of mobile device such as for the purpose of purging mobile device of histories e.g. of station location information or personal or otherwise sensitive information. Still further API s may be remotely activated to configure features of or services available to mobile device such as to monitor or deactivate an ability of mobile device to transmit and receive information. For instance control signals may be transmitted to mobile device by platform in order to lock mobile device until an appropriate unlock code or signal is input or transmitted to device such as parental locks. As another example subscribers may be enabled to request platform to monitor usage of the services provided to mobile device via the request platform and thereby provide a log of such use which may also enable subscribers to determine whether or not their devices have exceeded usage constraints or unauthorized usage.

Accordingly platform via for example remote application may be configured to issue control signals via various bearers to mobile devices such as in the form of one or more call control setup messages short messaging service SMS messages enhanced messaging service EMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages electronic mail files or any other suitable bearer as well as any suitable combination thereof. In particular implementations these bearer mediums may include control signals in various forms including attention AT commands menu traversal paths function codes voice data dual tone multi frequency DTMF signals scripts strings parameters object variables and the like. It is noted that these control signals can be used in lieu of software code and therefore may be directly integrated into the control logic of mobile device thereby requiring less processing and hence less power. It is contemplated however that coded instructions may also be utilized. As such these control signals may be utilized by API s to facilitate the remote control and or tracking services of system .

It is noted that messages and or control signals generated by for example remote application of platform may be transmitted to mobile devices via one or more of communication networks . To prevent unauthorized individuals from accessing the remote control and or tracking services of platform authentication information may be required. For instance a username and password procedure may be employed. According to one embodiment subscribers may be required to enter a code e.g. personal identification number PIN etc. before accessing the features and functionality of platform . Similarly to prevent the implementation of unauthorized control signals otherwise received at mobile device platform may include an authentication identifier when transmitting control signals to mobile devices . For instance messages and control signals may be encrypted either symmetrically or asymmetrically such that a hash value can be utilized to authenticate received control signals as well as ensure that those control signals have not been impermissibly alerted in transit. As such control signals may include various identifiers keys random numbers random handshakes digital signatures and the like. Further these authenticating schemas may themselves be encrypted or otherwise secured.

According to exemplary embodiments mobile devices may include one or more application protocol interfaces API such as a set of APIs included within for example a binary runtime environment for wireless BREW platform for receiving messages and or control signals from platform and thereby for being remotely activated configured tuned tracked etc. by platform . It is contemplated however that one or more other mobile client applications may be utilized such as one or more applications written in one or more programming languages such as C C J2ME Java etc. As such API s may be configured to in response to messages being received from for instance platform enable tuning of a tuner interface e.g. a radio tuner of mobile device . These signals may relate to acoustic s or image s of an environment surrounding mobile device . In other instances API s may determine spatial positioning backup or erase a memory not shown configure or reconfigure functions obtain usage logs terminate services etc. of or associated with mobile devices .

In exemplary embodiments mobile devices transmit via one or more of networks the spatial positioning information of mobile devices to platform . Other information or signals may also be transmitted by mobile devices to platform such as station location information service usage information device usage information subscriber preferences etc. These signals and or information may be stored to any suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components and or facilities of system such as radio station repository . In other instances the signals and or information may be presented to subscribers such as via one or more GUI s . GUIs not shown for tracking a mobile device and presenting signals and or information provided by tracked mobile devices to subscribers may be included in the system .

Still further remote application may enable subscribers to submit a request directly to one or more broadcast stations such as a request for station location information corresponding to the broadcast stations . The broadcast stations that are available and in proximity to the mobile device e.g. within the environment of the mobile devices such that their broadcasts can be tuned into at the location of the mobile device generate station location information corresponding to the broadcast station and which is to be presented to the broadcast stations . Subscribers may generate user profiles including one or more variables values parameters polices etc. for specifying one or more particular broadcast stations that are to receive spatial positioning information of mobile device such as one or more broadcast stations that provide news radio broadcasts within a predetermined vicinity of the environment surrounding a tracked mobile device . It is noted that generated reports may also include one or more of the captured signals and or information received from mobile device . For instance a report may include information tracking the spatial positioning of mobile device in real time such that the broadcast station or other authorized individuals or entities can provide station location information to the mobile device .

As seen in service provider network enables client devices and to access the features and functionality of platform via one or more of networks and . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. As such the conjunction of networks may be adapted to facilitate the radio station locator services of system .

According to exemplary embodiments client devices and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc. Even though only a limited number of user devices and are illustrated it is contemplated that system can support a plurality of user devices and .

As previously mentioned system may also include user profiles repository for storing subscriber information such as billing information contact information demographic information location information mobile station configurations subscription parameters and the like. User profiles repository may also be utilized to store data relating to authorized users of the radio station locator services of system as well as associated authorization information corresponding to those users. Namely a user of mobile device may establish one or more sub profiles including usernames passwords codes PINS etc. to further distinguish various override scenarios. While user profiles repository is depicted as an extension of service provider network it is contemplated that user profiles repository can be integrated into collocated at or otherwise in communication with any of the components or facilities of system .

In this manner repositories and may be maintained by a service provider of the station location information providing services of system or may be maintained by any suitable third party. It is contemplated that the physical implementation of repositories and may take on many forms including for example portions of existing repositories of a service provider new repositories of a service provider third party repositories and or shared repositories. As such repositories and may be configured for communication over system through any suitable messaging protocol such as lightweight directory access protocol LDAP extensible markup language XML open database connectivity ODBC structured query language SQL and the like as well as combinations thereof. In those instances when repositories and are provided in distributed fashions information and content available via repositories and may be located utilizing any suitable querying technique such as electronic number matching distributed universal number discovery DUNDi uniform resource identifiers URI etc.

Thus a subscriber of or an individual authorized to use the station location information providing services of system may initialize a communication session at client devices and as well as at another mobile unit not shown to interact with remote application so as to remotely track configure monitor tune etc. mobile device . Furthermore although the radio station locator services are described with respect to a mobile device it is recognized that the radio station locator services may be applied to any device capable of providing voice communications such as client devices and . In other instance mobile devices may be integrated with other devices individuals objects etc. and thereby enable subscribers to remotely track configure monitor and or tune these other devices individuals objects etc. While system has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of it is contemplated that system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities.

According to one embodiment platform embodies one or more application servers accessible to client devices and over one or more networks . Users or subscribers can access platform to create customize and manage one or more user profiles such as for the purpose of registering mobile devices with the station location information providing services of system as well as for tracking and providing station location information to one or more of these registered mobile devices . As such platform may provide a user interface e.g. web portal or other networked application to permit user to access the features and functionality of platform via client devices and . According to certain embodiments user interface module may be configured for exchanging information between client devices and and a web browser or other network based application or system such as a voice browser or interactive voice recognition system.

In exemplary embodiments user interface module may be configured to execute one or more GUIs that are configured to provide users with one or more menus of options for creating customizing and managing user profiles as well as engaging with the other features and functionalities of the tracking station location information services of system such as to enable subscribers to remotely determine and monitor the location and or surrounding environment of mobile devices when for instance the users desires to listen to a radio broadcast. For example upon the activation of a radio broadcast application operated on the mobile devices spatial positioning information corresponding to the location of the mobile device is transmitted to the platform . Additionally or alternatively platform may enable users to remotely control mobile devices in order to for example backup or erase a memory not shown tune a radio tuner configure or reconfigure functions obtain usage logs terminate services etc. of or associated with these devices .

In this manner user interface module via communication interface may be configured to receive requests for remotely tracking configuring monitoring tuning etc. mobile devices . For example a subscriber may access platform via a suitable client device e.g. computing device to obtain station location information of radio stations within the environment of the mobile device or any of the other suitable client devices. The subscriber may submit a corresponding request to track mobile device and in response thereto user interface module may port the request to messaging module for generating suitable station location information corresponding to available radio station with the environment of the mobile device. In this manner user interface module may provide one or more menus options tasks routines selections etc. to enable subscribers to submit such requests.

Accordingly messaging module is configured to generate one or more messages or control signals based on the request that when received by mobile device are configured to remotely activate one or more applications e.g. API s on mobile device . The control signals may further be configured to tune a radio tuner of mobile device such as to tune to a broadcast station in the environment surrounding mobile device . In this manner messaging module via for example communication interface may also be configured to transmit generated station location information messages and or control signal s to mobile device such as over one or more communication networks and in response thereto configured to receive one or requests for updated station location information from mobile device that are corresponding to user selection e.g. preferences and or related to the environment surrounding mobile device such as spatial positioning information relating to an updated location of mobile device an image of a memory of mobile device a usage log of mobile device etc.

According to exemplary embodiments messaging module may be configured to generate station location information messages for transmission to mobile device utilizing any suitable bearer such one or more call control setup messages short messaging service SMS messages enhanced messaging service EMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages electronic mail files or any other suitable bearer as well as any suitable combination thereof. In particular implementations these bearer mediums may include control signals in various forms including attention AT commands menu traversal paths function codes voice data dual tone multi frequency DTMF signals scripts strings parameters object variables and the like. It is noted that these control signals can be used in lieu of software code and therefore may be directly integrated into the control logic of mobile device thereby requiring less processing and hence less power. It is contemplated however that coded instructions may also be utilized. It is also contemplated that these control signals and or bearers may be API directed such as BREW directed.

As seen in platform may include presence service module for receiving and thereby tracking real time spatial positioning information from corresponding mobile devices . Additionally presence service module may poll mobile devices for spatial positioning information as well as capture presence information or availability of mobile devices . An exemplary model for presence determination is detailed in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comment RFC 2778 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. According to certain exemplary embodiments the presence or availability of mobile devices may be utilized to determine whether control signals may be transmitted to mobile devices as well provide subscribers with additional information for retrieving their mobile device or ascertaining the identity of a potential perpetrator.

In this manner captured signals and or information received from mobile devices may be stored to repository or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to platform such as memory . This tracking content may also be ported to user interface module for presentation to subscribers via the one or more GUIs. It is noted that this tracking content may relate to signals captured from an audio interface e.g. a microphone or an imaging interface e.g. a camera of mobile device spatial positioning information relating to a location of mobile device a device usage log corresponding to use of mobile device an image of a memory of mobile device etc. as well as any other suitable content that may facilitate the providing of station location information of radio stations surrounding the environment of mobile devices .

According to exemplary embodiments presenting tracking content to a subscriber may provide enough information to users of mobile devices such that the users may be able to associate the location of the mobile devices with radio stations they have previously been aware of. As such user interface module may be configured to convey the location or spatial position of a mobile device to the subscriber which may be provided as a short or multimedia message or provided within an automated or personnel based voice call. In certain embodiments the spatial position or location of a mobile device may be overlaid on a topical depiction or map of a cartographic or geographic area such that pinpointing the location of mobile device can be quickly ascertained.

Subscribers may also utilize the features and functionalities of platform to submit the spatial position or location of their mobile device to platform and or one or more broadcast stations to receive station location information corresponding to the one or more broadcast stations. In this manner user interface module may provide one or more menus options tasks routines selections etc. to enable subscribers to submit such requests. A submission of a mobile device status to one or more broadcast stations may be ported to reporting module . In exemplary embodiments reporting module is configured to generate in response to received requests for station location information a report including the mobile device status e.g. location information for transmission to one or more broadcast stations such as one or more predefined radio stations stored to a user profile corresponding to the subscriber. For instance a subscriber may generate a user profile including one or more variables values parameters polices etc. for specifying one or more particular radio stations that are to receive generated reports. The one or more particular radio stations such as one or more music radio stations may be within a predetermined vicinity of the environment surrounding mobile device . It is noted that generated reports may also include one or more of the captured signals and or information received from mobile device . For instance a report may include information tracking the spatial positioning of mobile device in real time such that the radio station or other authorized individuals or entities can determine of the mobile device . Such a scenario can be useful when mobile device is traveling with the user. Thus reporting module via for instance communication interface may be configured to transmit generated reports to these radio stations over one or more of networks .

In order to provide selective access to the features and functionality of platform platform may also include an authentication module not illustrated for authenticating or authorizing users to platform . It is contemplated that the authentication module may operate in concert with communication interface and or user interface module . That is the authentication module may verify user provided credential information acquired via communication interface and or user interface module against corresponding credential information stored within a user profile of for instance user profiles repository . By way of example the credential information may include log on information corresponding to a user name password coded key or other unique identification parameter such a personal identification number PIN . In other instances the credential information may include any one or combination of a birth date an account number e.g. bank credit card billing code etc. a social security number SSN an address e.g. work home internet protocol IP media access control MAC port etc. or telephone listing e.g. work home cellular etc. as well as any other form of uniquely identifiable datum e.g. bearer tag identifier biometric code voice print etc. Subscribers may provide this information via client devices and such as by spoken utterances dual tone multi frequency DTMF signals packetized transmission etc. It is contemplated that unobtrusive security may be provided by positively identifying and screening users based on one or more of the aforementioned credentials which may be seamlessly provided when client devices and communicate with platform such as a unique IP or MAC address. Other unobtrusive measures can be made available via voice prints etc.

Additionally platform may include one or more controllers or processors for effectuating the aforementioned features and functionality of the tracking and providing of station location information services of system as well as one or more memories for permanent and or temporary storage of one or more of the aforementioned variables parameters information signals etc. In this manner the features and functionalities of remote application may be executed by controller s and or memories such as in conjunction with one or more of the various components of platform .

According to certain embodiments platform may include a radio station determination module to acquire radio station information relating to broadcast station s . Module can communicate with the systems associated with the broadcast station s and or access other data sources or services. As shown in platform can include a user preference module that can pull information relating to the musical preference of a subscriber by interfacing with for example on line music stores on line music services or even media player devices e.g. MP3 players etc. .

According to exemplary embodiments user interface may include one or more displays keypads microphones and or speakers . Display provides a graphical user interface GUI that permits a user of mobile device to view dialed digits call status menu options and other radio station information. The GUI may include icons and menus as well as other text and symbols. Keypad includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls such as one or more button controls dials joysticks touch panels etc. The user thus can construct user profiles enter commands initialize applications input remote addresses select options from menu systems and the like. Microphone coverts spoken utterances of a user or other auditory sounds e.g. environmental sounds into electronic audio signals whereas speaker converts audio signals into audible sounds.

Communications circuitry may include audio processing circuitry controller location module such as a GPS receiver coupled to antenna memory messaging module transceiver coupled to antenna and wireless controller coupled to antenna . Memory may represent a hierarchy of memory which may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non volatile memory such as erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory. Memory may be implemented as one or more discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with controller . Memory may store information such as one or more user profiles one or more user defined policies one or more contact lists personal information sensitive information work related information etc.

Additionally it is contemplated that mobile device may also include one or more applications and thereby may store via memory data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions business functions calendar functions communication functions contact managing functions data editing e.g. database word processing spreadsheets etc. functions financial functions gaming functions imaging functions messaging e.g. electronic mail IM MMS SMS etc. functions multimedia functions service functions storage functions synchronization functions task managing functions querying functions and the like. As such messages and control signals received by mobile device from for example platform may be utilized by API s and or controller to facilitate remotely tracking tuning configuring modifying and or utilizing one or more features options settings etc. of these applications. It is also contemplated that these or other control signals may be utilized by controller to facilitate remotely backing up and or erasing data associated with these applications. In other instances the control signals may cause mobile device to become completely or partially deactivated or otherwise inoperable.

Accordingly controller controls the operation of mobile station such as in response to commands received from API s and or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers may include for example both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller may interface with audio processing circuitry which provides basic analog output signals to speaker and receives analog audio inputs from microphone . In exemplary embodiments controller may be controlled by API s in order to capture signals from camera or microphone in response to control signals received from platform . In other instances controller may be controlled by API s to cause location module to determine spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device . Still further controller may be controlled by API s to image e.g. backup and or erase memory to configure or reconfigure functions of mobile device to track and generate device usage logs or to terminate services available to mobile device . It is noted that captured signals device usage logs memory images spatial positioning information and the like may be transmitted to platform via transceiver and or wireless controller . In this manner the captured signals and or other forms of information may be presented to users and stored to one or more networked storage locations such as user profiles repository radio station repository or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components and facilities of system .

It is noted that real time spatial positioning information may be obtained or determined via location module using for instance satellite positioning system technology such as GPS technology. In this way location module can behave as or substantially similar to a GPS receiver. Thus mobile device employs location module to communicate with constellation of satellites. These satellites transmit very low power interference and jamming resistant signals received by GPS receivers via for example antennas . At any point on Earth GPS receiver can receive signals from multiple satellites such as six to eleven. Specifically GPS receiver may determine three dimensional geolocation or spatial positioning information from signals obtained from at least four satellites. Measurements from strategically positioned satellite tracking and monitoring stations are incorporated into orbital models for each satellite to compute precise orbital or clock data. Accordingly GPS signals may be transmitted over two spread spectrum microwave carrier signals that can be shared by GPS satellites . Thus if mobile device is able to identify signals from at least four satellites receivers may decode the ephemeris and clock data determine the pseudo range for each satellite and thereby compute the spatial positioning of a receiving antenna . With GPS technology mobile device can determine its spatial position with great accuracy and convenience. It is contemplated however that location module may utilize one or more other location determination technologies such as advanced forward link triangulation AFLT angle of arrival AOA assisted GPS A GPS cell identification cell ID observed time difference of arrival OTDOA enhanced observed time of difference E OTD enhanced forward link trilateration EFLT network multipath analysis and the like.

Mobile device also includes messaging module that is configured to receive transmit and or process messages e.g. EMS messages SMS messages MMS messages IM messages electronic mail messages and or any other suitable message received from or transmitted to platform or any other suitable component or facility of system . As previously mentioned platform may transmit control singles to mobile device in the form of one or more API directed messages e.g. one or more BREW directed SMS messages. As such messaging module may be configured to identify such messages as well as activate API s in response thereto. Furthermore messaging module may be further configured to parse control signals from these messages and thereby port parsed control signals to corresponding components of mobile device such as API s controller location module memory transceiver wireless controller etc. for implementation.

According to exemplary embodiments API s once activated is configured to present station location information included in messages and or effectuate the implementation of the control signals received from platform e.g. from remote application . It is noted that the control signals are utilized by API s to for instance remotely tune a radio tuner control configure monitor track and or capture signals from or related to camera communications circuitry and or user interface . In this manner visual and or acoustic indicia pertaining to an environment surrounding mobile device may captured by API s controlling camera and microphone . Other control signals to cause mobile device to determine spatial positioning information to image and or erase memory to configure or reconfigure functions to track and generate device usage logs or to terminate services may also be carried out via API s . As such one or more signals captured from camera or microphone or device usage logs memory images spatial positioning information etc. may be transmitted to platform via transceiver and or wireless controller in response to corresponding control signals provided to transceiver and or wireless controller by API s . Thus captured signals and or one or more other forms of information provided to platform may be presented to users and or stored to one or more of user profiles repository and radio station repository or any other suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to the components and facilities of system .

It is also noted that mobile device can be equipped with wireless controller to communicate with a wireless headset not shown or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller for example the headset can be BLUETOOTH enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of it is contemplated that mobile device may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components.

According to certain embodiments registration procedures may prompt the user to identify mobile devices and or other client devices e.g. client devices and that the user may wish to track and receive station location information when for instance the user desires to obtain information corresponding to one or more radio stations in an environment associated with the mobile devices and or other client devices and . In this manner the user may uniquely identify these devices and by entering appropriate device information or identifiers such as one or more device types serial numbers registration numbers MAC addresses directory addresses communications links etc. corresponding to devices and . In certain exemplary embodiments platform may obtain corresponding configuration and or interfacing information relating to these devices from for example one or more manufacturers or other third party suppliers over for instance data network . It is noted that this configuration and or interfacing information may be utilized by platform to facilitate the station location information services of system . Furthermore the configuration and or interfacing information may be stored to any suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to system such as user profiles repository .

Once registered or as part of the registration process platform enables the user per step to generate and or edit a user profile. The user profile may include user information addressing information e.g. directory number electronic serial number international mobile equipment identifier machine access control address mobile directory number mobile equipment identity mobile identification number internet protocol address port address and or any other suitable address corresponding to one or more identified client devices that the user desires to register with the radio station locator services of system .

In step platform enables the user to store preferences for customizing the user profile. For example a user is able enter preferences for favorite radio stations radio station format e.g. news traffic music sports music genre e.g. classical rock hip hop country radio personalities e.g. local radio hosts nationally syndicated hosts etc. The preferences stored by the user assists the platform in generating radio station lists by narrowing down the available radio stations presented to the user to stations that the user is most likely interested in. According to exemplary embodiments the user preferences may be updated manually by a user and or automatically by the platform according to a history of the user s selections.

In step platform stores the user to a list of subscribers to the radio station locator services of system as well as stores the generated user profile authentication information device identifies etc. to for example user profiles repository . It is noted that platform may additionally or alternatively store or synchronize this user profile information to any suitable storage location or memory of or accessible to platform . Further it is contemplated that users may directly interact with one or more of these storage facilities or memories such as user profiles repository .

In step platform receives a request for station location information. That is a subscriber via for example the mobile device or any other client device or establishes a communication session with platform such as by logging on to a networked application e.g. remote application provided by for instance user interface module . It is noted that before gaining access the subscriber may be required to provide credential information such as a username and password combination. Once logged on user interface module may prompt the user with one or more GUIs menus options selections etc. enabling the subscriber to formulate the request as well as input an address e.g. telephone number machine identifier media access control MAC address internet protocol IP address etc. of mobile device that the user wants to receive the station location information.

The request for station location information received in step results in communication interface receiving one or more signals captured from the audio interface or the imaging interface of mobile device that in exemplary embodiments correspond to acoustic and or visual indicia of an environment surrounding mobile device . Further per step communication interface may also receive spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device . Using the captured signals and or the spatial positioning information of mobile device platform determines the location of the mobile device. It is noted that the captured signals and or spatial positioning information may be stored to radio station repository or any other suitable storage location of or accessible to system such as user profiles repository .

In step user interface module ports the request to for instance messaging module to generate one or more message signals containing station location information corresponding to one or radio stations. The one or more radio stations including the station location information may be determined based on the location of the mobile device proximity to the location of mobile device signal strength availability etc. Messaging module may be configured to generate message signals for transmission to mobile device utilizing various bearers such as in the form of one or more call control setup messages short messaging service SMS messages enhanced messaging service EMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages electronic mail files or any other suitable bearer as well as any suitable combination thereof. These messages may further be directed to API s such as one or more BREW directed SMS messages. Thus In step messaging module via for example communication interface transmits the one or more generated message signals e.g. the one or more BREW directed SMS messages to mobile device over one or more of networks and in particular via wireless network . As discussed previously the transmitted messages include station location information corresponding to one or more radio stations that are determined to be within an environment surrounding mobile device . This environment surrounding the mobile device may be predetermined to include a particular geographic region and or other boundaries.

In step generated messages are transmitted to mobile device or other subscriber devices via the network interface e.g. via one or more GUIs implemented by user interface module . In particular messaging module or reporting module transmits the generated messages accordingly the subscriber preferences and availability determined by presence service module .

Referring now to step is an optional step after step at which platform receives a request to modify and or update the station location information generated in step based on subscriber feedback to the list of and or updated mobile device location. For instance platform receives an update request from subscriber to modify the state location information to include only radio stations that have talk radio formats and or to update the location of mobile device . The platform in step determines the updated location of the mobile device and generates updated station location information corresponding to radio stations that are within the environment of the mobile device and that match the criteria of the update request. The updated location of mobile device may be included in the user request and or may be determined by the platform . In step platform transmits the updated station information to mobile device .

As seen in in step a subscriber via for example mobile device or any other client device transmits a request for station location information. The request may be transmitted to platform and or to one or more radio stations. Mobile device may transmit spatial positioning information corresponding to the location of mobile device and or the platform may obtain spatial positioning information corresponding to a location of mobile device from one or more other sources. The platform determines the location of the mobile device using the captured signals and or the spatial positioning information of mobile device .

In step mobile device receives one or more message signals containing station location information corresponding to one or radio stations from the platform . Messaging module of platform may be configured to generate the message signals and transmits the messages utilizing various bearers such as in the form of one or more call control setup messages short messaging service SMS messages enhanced messaging service EMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages electronic mail files or any other suitable bearer as well as any suitable combination thereof. For instance API s of mobile device may receive one or more BREW directed SMS messages. Mobile device may receive the one or more generated message signals e.g. the one or more BREW directed SMS messages over one or more of networks and in particular via wireless network .

In step the station location information may be in the form of a list of one or more radio stations which is presented to the subscriber via a visual display and or audio presentation. The station location information may be presented via a GUI which may include a plurality of tabs or interactive interface elements . The plurality of tabs may provide the subscriber with a plurality of options for navigating the station location information and or filtering the station location information. For instance the plurality of tabs may include options for various programming including but not limited to traffic weather talk radio music and comedy. In addition the plurality of tabs may provide an option to dynamically build a favorites list for a particular location based on subscriber preferences and or radio station metadata.

Referring to step is an optional step after step at which a subscriber submits a request to modify and or update the station location information received. In step based on various criteria and or updated mobile device location described with respect to . The update request may be transmitted to platform and or to one or more radio stations. For instance mobile transmits an update request to modify the state location information such that the station location information only includes radio stations that have talk radio formats and or to update the location information corresponding to the location of mobile device . The radio device in step receives the updated location information transmitted from platform and or one or more radio stations. The updated station location information is generated by platform and or one or more radio stations. The updated station location information corresponds to radio stations that are within the environment of the mobile device and that match the criteria of the update request. In step mobile device presents the station location information via a visual display and or audio presentation. The station location information may be presented via a GUI which may include a plurality of tabs or interactive interface elements . The plurality of tabs may provide the subscriber with a plurality of options for navigating the station location information and or filtering the station location information. For instance the plurality of tabs may include options for various programming including but not limited to traffic weather talk radio music and comedy. In addition the plurality of tabs may provide an option to dynamically build a favorites list for a particular location based on subscriber preferences and or radio station metadata.

The described processes according to certain embodiments provide a number of advantages. For example a user can conveniently and effectively determine desired broadcast stations without having to guess at the stations that are aligned with the user s tastes. In effect the radio broadcast medium can be revitalized i.e. retain or even increase listeners while enabling a viable service for service providers.

The processes described herein for providing radio station locator service may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an exemplary embodiment the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement exemplary embodiments. Thus exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an exemplary embodiment through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the exemplary embodiments may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

