---

title: Secured personal data handling and management system
abstract: A system, method and personal apparatus for managing highly secured personal data is provided. The system and the personal apparatus are complementary, both providing highly secured personal data, mass, safe and secured data access, storage and management solutions, while serving the needs for managing and exchanging secured personal data with external services and data providers and with other such highly secured personal data users. The apparatus may be used independently of the system by securely connecting the apparatus to service providers. The apparatus, which is uniquely identified with a unique user, includes a sensor module comprising a plurality of biometric sensors for reading a plurality of personal biological identification parameters of the user and an authentication unit for positive authentication of the user's personal biological identification parameters stored in the authentication unit. The system is designed to securely serve the needs of conducting and maintaining multiple users' personal data access, storage, updating and retrieval capabilities. The method supports the safe and secured operation of the apparatus by its owner, in order to get access to the system and to exchange highly secured personal data with external pre-registered service providers and with other registered system users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08401875&OS=08401875&RS=08401875
owner: OS - New Horizons Personal Computing Solutions Ltd.
number: 08401875
owner_city: Mevasseret Zion
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20100804
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 313 145 filed on Mar. 12 2010 and incorporated by reference as if set forth herein

The present invention relates in general to the need of modern computer age users to have easy affordable and immediate access to their personal information regarding many aspects of their daily life including but not exclusively related to their financial economical work related sensitive data files their medical updated records other and important personal files and their many registered and favorite websites access data needs. The invention also relates to secured personal data exchange storage and handling processes done through a combined computer Internet and telephony based system.

More particularly the invention relates to combined computers Internet and telephony dedicated systems supporting for a plurality of users solutions to get access store and manage their personal data in a safe and secured way by using a personal data authenticator functioning as a smart and advanced token to get a safe and highly secured access to the system and to store updated vast amount of their personal data on easy to carry tokens.

The ways communication channels and the required data storage size and data throughput capacity of modern computer systems and their user s communication needs are fast expanding in the required operational performance needs data storage capacity and associated required technical capabilities. Modern computer systems need in many cases also to support the communication needs between the users and various computer supported services enabling the handling and exchange of very large files of data between services and information providers and clients. Such large files sizes handling systems are in many cases required to securely manage their users and clients textual numeric imagery audio graphics and many other personal data files of a highly sensitive information related to the system s users or clients personal data. Such systems are typical to the needs of organizations such as hospitals government and municipal agencies banks insurance companies and other financial institutes which needs are rapidly changing towards higher data throughput and storage capacity yet keeping the users and clients personal information in full security and confidentiality.

In parallel today more and more users have the will to use new technological solutions and methods to be able to store and easily get access to their own personal data while storing it in small portable devices and through these devices also to be able to download retrieve and manage most if not all their personal data and daily operational needs. The users may also have the need to use their personal ID data to create personal files and other private files and to have an access to other large size data files through special highly secured dedicated computerized systems. By using such dedicated secured combined systems the users will be able to securely transfer and exchange sensitive and private personal data and information with other authorized specific users and with suppliers of large scale size personal data files. These files may serve the growing secured personal data exchange sharing and transfer needs of external services providers and suppliers using and generating highly personal data files such as hospitals banks Insurance companies government office and agencies etc.

In order to get access to secured data files in most computerized systems users are usually required to be first recognized and identified by the computerized system as legitimate registered users prior to getting access to the secured data files. Each one of these systems users is therefore required to first provide the computerized system with some data strings of secret information unique to this user in order to be recognized by the computerized system as a legitimate user and then the user is permitted to get entry access to the system. The process of the user being recognized and approved by a computerized system is called authentication. A two factor authentication is an improved security process in which a user provides two types or means of his personal identification one of which is typically a physical token such as a card and the other of which is typically something memorized such as a security code. In this context the two factors involved are sometimes spoken of or referred to as something a user has and something a user knows a pass code. A common example of two factor authentication is a bank card the card itself is the physical item and the personal identification number PIN is the known data as a second factor that goes with the bank card.

Markets available hardware token generators may presently be used for authentication to enterprise systems. However a hardware token generator only generates a token to be used by a user or a holder of the hardware token generator to manually supply the token for authentication. For example a two factor authentication can require that the second factor be a physical token i.e. something the user has that can produce i.e. display the second factor token such as a numeric string that the holder of the physical token can enter at a terminal providing access to a sought service. However a drawback of a hardware token generator is that a lost or stolen hardware token generator can be used to breach security or for fraud. Another drawback is requiring a user to manage an additional physical token for authentication purposes. Another drawback is multiple hardware token generators are needed for multiple authentications to different systems. Also a hardware token generator does not adequately prevent from phishing by hackers and criminals because a two factor authentication using presently available hardware token generator as the second factor are still susceptible to man in the middle type attacks.

The prior art covering some of these capabilities is described in several publications as detailed herein.

A method for writing medical prescriptions storing and accessing patient medical records with improved portability and improved patient data security using a USB dongle device is described in US Patent Application No. 20090204433 filed Aug. 13 2009. The portable USB dongle device containing the patient records and software is easily removed and transported to other local terminals. The relevant patent describes a method for controlling access to medical records comprising A Providing a portable memory device which is able to store controlling software and said medical records B Providing a display device which is operationally connected to a microprocessor which will display said medical records will selectively control a display of said medical records and C Using Fingerprint biometric authentication.

Medicard by Walletex Microelectronics Ltd. http www.walletex.com from 6300 N.W. 97 Ave. Miami Fla. 33178 USA is a credit card size and shape USB flash memory for the user s medical records. MediCard has a large double sided area that can be printed with the user s name picture doctors names and phone numbers information on allergies and medications and other life saving facts for emergency first responders. It has enhanced security offering Strong AES Encryption Password protection Memory partitioning Read only part Secured part Public part Large memory capacity up to 8 GB may contain both data and application software. Optional features are Biometric recognition Magnetic strip.

US patent application No. 2008 0041940 A1 filed Jun. 4 2007 partially covers some of the elements that were integrated into the Walletex Medicard device product. This patent application only includes two claims on a system which partially relates to the Medicard product as prior art. The first system claim is A system of capturing and storing personal data patient medical records and medical insurance and payment information comprising a providing a credit card sized USB flash drive or similar device to store said patient medical records combined with a Smart Card or similar device to store said payment information including medical insurance and payment information such that said USB flash drive and Smart Card combination easily fits into one s wallet or worn on a necklace and b providing a USB jack and a means for emergency medical workers hospital workers and other health and medical workers to view and change said patient medical records and c providing a Smart Card and a means for health and medical workers to process said medical insurance and payment information whereby said system will allow an individual to contain said patient medical record and said medical insurance and payment information in one small credit card sized unit. Their second claim is The credit card sized USB flash drive or other device of claim providing a mechanism for encrypting patient data such that it may only be viewed when a pass phrase pin number or similar phrase is entered by the owner via keyboard. Biometric information may also become available once Card development allows for this feature.

What we can learn from the relevant prior art is that medical data has the need to be readily available to the patients and to the medical treatment teams when needed but the US patent application No 2008 0041940 A1 as well as the Walletex product do not cover several highly important and medical markets required operational and security features and capabilities to make together a fully acceptable and working solution. First due to the sensitivity of the medical records the access to them should be highly secured and a simple password or even one biometric access permit as appears at the end of the above cited US patent application second claim but without any supportive description in the cited patent body itself is not enough to ensure that a third party with negative intentions will not be able to get access to the user patient secured medial data. Also this invention card does not have any connectivity and access to mobile phones and especially to the fast growing numbers and types of smart phones as such an access capability is a real need in the modern living environment due to the support these phones give to sustain the user s continuous voice and data communication capability with various service providers as well as medical support and aid services wherever the user is located. Also essentially missing in the Walletex device and US application No 2008 0041940 A1 prior art is the required capability to measure and sense that a live person is authenticated as the user of the device while the user is actually holding the device in his hands to avoid the possibility of using the user s access data and even a silicon copy of his fingerprint to fake his presence and get access to the user s secured personal information this is true not for only medical personal records but also and even more crucial and relevant in the case of getting access to financial records private data records and classified organizational records if the user belongs to organization and has a special personal access permit to highly secured information that he needs to carry with him.

It is also highly recommended that when access is given to the sensitive medical records or other personal data files when and if the life signs measured results of the devise holder are not normal to have in the devise the feature of self initiating an emergency call through the user s connected cell phone or by the user connecting to a host computer to get a safe access to a remote computer center that will call for emergency medical treatment or an urgent evacuation of the user to the nearby hospital. This requirement of a personal emergency device was dealt by prior art but no practical device was introduced successfully to the markets yet.

Also there is a need to create hierarchy in the access level of permits to the sensitive medical data stored in such a device as the level of details and amount of medical data on the patient required by the medical rescue team is different and much lesser in content and details than the required access to much more detailed and professional medical data on the patient when the patient has to be professionally diagnosed and treated when he arrives at the hospital emergency room.

Accordingly there is a need to improve and enhance the access control capabilities to first securely and efficiently authenticate the specific user before giving this user access to sensitive personal data files and then after the user being authenticated in a very high level of security and reliability to be able to safely and securely communicate and exchange the user s personal secured data with other specific authenticated and pre approved users and especially with a wide spectrum of registered and approved service and dedicated data providers.

Modern cellular phones known as smart phones are being frequently used as personal data storage and access devices used for such applications as holding the user s phone books and personal data records but the problems associated with this solution is due to the frequent modern cellular phones models changes and many technical failures of these phones all that leads to the fact that in many cases critical users data is getting lost or injured during the process of the devices repeating maintenance and management procedures as well as the users frequent cellular phones and personal computers changing and upgrading to newer models. A better solution will therefore be to separate the user s sensitive and private data storage and management functions from the cell phone communication and display functions. This functional separation importance between private and personal data storage functions and the communication functions can be recognized detected and clarified especially during all the user s sensitive acts of private and needed to be concealed and secured data transfer activities from one device to the other. There is a need in this aspect for holding the user s private and needed to be secured data on a separate highly operational and reliable device that will be adapting itself and act at the user s portable private data storage device through all the changes upgrading and maintenance cycles that the user does with his cellular phone and or personal computer. The user s personal portable data storage device will be able to be connected and then automatically and immediately communicate and interact with the user s new or upgraded cellular phones in parallel there is a need that the personal device will be able to connect and interact also with the user s personal computer as well as with his computer terminal at work whenever required.

This set of combined capabilities is especially required if the user wants to use the same device to store his own personal mass data base of financial and or medical records of a highly sensitive level of data combined with and containing textual imagery audio graphics and figures covering most if not all the specific user continuously updating personal data financial medical and other modern life management information while ensuring the highly demanding requirements of secured data maintenance.

Regarding these very high security and privacy maintenance requirements and the users sensitivity to the fast expanding technical means and operational trends of exchanging financial related data and making financial transactions through modern computerized communication lines and networks such as the interment and intranet there is a need to improve the presently used means and methods of the users interaction through those networks as they are done today mainly only by simply providing and exchanging the user name and password information as the only security protection means to enable users access to finance institutions and banks and then it enables users to execute highly sensitive and top security demanding actions such as executing actual financial transactions and stocks trading. It is therefore highly recommended and required to offer more advanced practical new technologies based means and solutions to provide and support enhanced and improved authentication communication and data access and remote transactions executions means to provide much better personal financial data exchange providing enhanced security for sensitive and private information exchange and provide secured and safe sensitive storage and deals executions with better safety and security. The present lack of such improved financial transactions security management solutions creates the existing markets vast spectrum of mal opportunities to hackers and criminals to get access to sensitive financial data and the related financial resources of users and organizations and then execute criminal acts on them related a wide spectrum of misrepresentation based transactions by practically using other users money. These criminal activities are presently creating annually hundreds of millions of US direct damages to the injured users and organizations and consequently also to the insurance companies that insure them through their banks and their credit card companies.

In addition there is thus a widely recognized need for and it would be highly advantageous also to have a dedicated combined computer Internet and telephony system supporting the multiple authentication sensitive and very private personal data access and storage of users personal financial and medical data and then supporting the daily needs for a plurality of said system pre registered users to securely communicate and operate their daily highly secured data interaction needs with a multiple of authorized approved and secured services providers by using the system and adding to it as a critical highly required to security supporting new element by the implementation and the use of said dedicated hand held devices to communicate safely though this dedicated system getting access to said system by the use of said hand held apparatus which has the capabilities of being a combined multi level personal data authenticator and a secured and encrypted mass memory of personal or organizational sensitive and very private data with immediate access to the user holding his very private apparatus wherever he goes.

There is also a need for a highly secured and computerized communication system. Such a system will be open only to pre registered and enhanced security check approved clients while the system registered clients will get access to said system only with their system advanced also pre registered authentication managing token concept is expected to dramatically reduce the cases of criminal acts by electronic means to execute financial deals and enable better monitoring and detection any suspicious such deals and quickly and easily track hackers trials to enter that secured system. The system users interaction with the secured system enabled only by using their tokens will provide each such system user an optimal way to first verify that his entry and interaction with the system is fully authenticated and thus highly protected then to track his deals as they are processed and to monitor their final execution results before each such a deal is finally approved and finalized by the user.

It is therefore highly recommended and there is a need to have an operational and reliable solution that will support for a multiple of registered users a secured communication and data management needs through a dedicated system and that the system s users will need to use their proposed private personal tokens operating both as a user combined personal data authenticator and as a secured mass memory personal or organizational portable data storage and handling device for providing secured and safe accesses to said secured system and to external databases containing sensitive private information of the system users.

The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described and illustrated in conjunction with systems apparatuses and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. In various embodiments one or more of the above described limitations and emerging modern user s growing needs have been solved reduced or eliminated while other embodiments are directed to other advantageous or improvements.

The core of the present invention is an advanced and highly reliable new generation of physical safe entry and secured access support tokens in the shape of a small palm size hand held apparatus geared to serve and support the user s secured entry needs to modern computerized systems. The invention apparatus has an integrated highly secured personal data communication and management capability combined with a built in multi level user s bio parameters measurement and authentication module. In parallel the invention apparatus fully supports the user s needs for secured data communication capability to and from a very large data storage capacity solid state memory module which is an integral part and is resident within the invention apparatus.

According to the present invention there is also provided highly secured personal data storage and handling combined system integrating computers Internet and telephony components. Supporting the system and its users highly secured personal data handling needs is the dedicated present invention apparatus having an integrated built in offering multiple security level set of at least two bio sensors measuring the user s unique personal biological parameters and further providing highly reliable and safe authentication capability based on the processing of user s measured set of biological parameters. The combined system is enabling for very sensitive personal data files local memory and remote data suppliers secured access highly secured personal data exchange and secured personal data storage by a plurality of users. The system s registered users are communicating and operating through the dedicated system with a multiple of specially authorized services providers by using the dedicated hand held personal data authenticator apparatus having a built highly secured and encrypted mass memory for its user personal data storage capacity thus enabling to upload and down load to and from the apparatus memory updated personal data from the authorized services providers that are pre registered in the invention system. The apparatus comprises a large memory capacity solid state data storage module adapted to store the user personal data while the updated personal data is residing and readily available to the single and unique user. The invention apparatus can serve any user on a private and personal level or alternatively to serve secured data handling by employees and management of various types of organizations for securely managing all the inter organization proprietary data while each such employee is using the hand held present invention apparatus as a high security access key to the company s proprietary information. For the usage of the present invention system each one of the invention system s multiple users needs to use the invention apparatus in order to provide him or her with secured and safe accesses to the combined highly secured dedicated present invention system.

The existence of such a highly secured communication system closed for access to the open public according to the present invention is providing a unique secured and personal data management solution that is only open to pre registered and enhanced security check approved clients or users. The system registered clients are getting access to the invention system only by using their advanced also pre registered authentication managing tokens which are the invention apparatuses. This new concept is expected to dramatically reduce the cases of criminal acts carried out by penetrating into financial computerized systems using electronic means to execute faulty financial deals. Furthermore it will enable better monitoring and detection of any suspicious such deals followed by quick allocation and capture of the financial system intruders who have criminal intentions. Also it will enable easier tracking of hackers attempts to enter the secured system and to damage its proper and normal functionality. The system s users interaction with the secured system which is enabled only by using their personal devices will provide each such system user an optimal way to first verify that his entry and interaction with the system is fully authenticated and thus highly protected then to track his deals as they are processed and to monitor their final execution results before each such a deal is finally approved and finalized by the user. This means that only the authenticated user and no other user will have the possibility to have access to the user s personal files and accounts and to be able do any kind of transaction with or through them.

In another typical embodiment of the invention there is a method of operating the invention system comprising the steps of A a system user first applying a step of going through a series of multiple level bio personal parameters measurement processing the measured parameters and then use the results for the user authentication then B enabling the authenticated user to manage his personal data while getting full access to his personal data as well as the user s personal data updating and storage in his personal apparatus. The process is enabled by the user safely connecting through the invention s system with a plurality of such highly secured other system users and for communicating and exchanging secured and encrypted data with a multiple of dedicated approved and highly secured services providers. By using the dedicated hand held personal data authenticator having an integrated highly secured and encrypted mass memory personal or organizational data module all integrated within the invention hand held dedicated apparatus each of the invention system s users needs to use his or her very personal and highly secured present invention apparatus in order to provide him or her with a secured and safe access to the combined dedicated secured system for handling and managing a plurality of users secured personal data.

The present invention will create a new safe and secured communication and secured personal data exchange and updating method for private and organizational staff users which is highly required for supporting the handling exchanging and storing of mass sizes highly personal and or organization private and secret data packages which does not exist today. The system and its operational method is also providing the user with the capability to actively manage a secured safe access to the mass storage data capacity of his highly sensitive and personal data bases and to files stored and continuously updated by the various registered data and service providers while using the user s private and secured memory partition within the present invention system memory structured as very large data storage capacity bank. The user might like to get new data from the system memory and down load it into the present invention apparatus acting as his personal data storage device and also decide which part to send to another system user or to specific approved and highly secured special services providers.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided an apparatus integrated with at least two special bio sensors and physical parameters measurement means supporting exclusively and only the apparatus owner and user s personal biological and physical body parameters measurements and authentication while continuously conducting multiple level bio personal parameters positive authentication process of the apparatus predefined legitimate physical measured parameters. The apparatus is always encrypting and also enabling only one specific user personal data storage access and data exchange and serving as a mass memory capacity personal data storage by its private user enabling the device personal owner to communicate and operate through the dedicated system with a multiple of specifically approved services providers by using the dedicated hand held personal bio parameters measured data authenticator and using the built in and integrated secured and encrypted mass memory personal or organizational highly sensitive and personal data each of the dedicated systems users needs to use only his her own very private apparatus in order to provide him or her with a secured and safe accesses to the combined and highly safe and secured system.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided an apparatus that can detect the user s potential emergency situation while analyzing that the life signs measured results of the apparatus holder are not normal to have in the apparatus the feature of self initiating an emergency call through the user s connected cell phone or by transmitting a message though the internet when the user is connecting his apparatus to a host computer to get a safe access to a remote computer center that will call for emergency medical treatment or for an urgent evacuation of the user to the nearby hospital. With the apparatus integrated electronics and communication means the apparatus can be easily and seamless connected to and communicate through a modern cellular phone or any type of a host computer with the invention dedicated central secured personal data storage and management computer system that will call the emergency units of the nearby hospital based on the location of the sick person which can be calculated from the user s location identification information that can be derived from the inherent device location identification capability of any modern cellular phone.

To better understand the user s benefits of using the invention apparatus and system it is required to learn that presently users are frequently losing time and again their saved personal and important data files due to mechanical or electrical failures of their electromagnetic driven hard discs or suffer from sensitive data files failure or damages related to malfunctions of their personal computers or smart cell phones. Another source for lost sensitive data files that many time are of a highly personal and important data is due to software malfunction problems while running on the users personal computers or smart cell phones such problems are also frequently created by viruses and Adware infections in the users computers or cell phones. All these problems can be eliminated or at least substantially reduced if the users will use their invention apparatus with its very large solid state memory data storage capacity to serve them as their daily needs supporting backup memory. The invention apparatus is therefore fully supporting of the modern user needs for a highly reliable secured data solid state based memory and is protected against viruses by embedded related advanced anti virus anti Adware software that is frequently updating its DB every time the user is connecting his apparatus to the system or to the internet through his host computer. Another family of common cases of frequently lost sensitive and important data files is typical to the modern users habits of frequently changing or upgrading their host computers and even more so it is common and frequent for them to do model changes with the users cellular phones. Every time it happens the users are exposed to losing sensitive data such as a phone books stored in their changed devices. It happens mainly due to the user or the related cellular service provider or cell phone supplier not taking enough care and not performing professional and full coverage backup of all the stored data prior to changing the computer or phone. Most users are familiar with the cases that their electronic phone book content was damaged if not totally erased when they upgraded their cell phone. Keeping all the users sensitive data such as his medical records financial records credit card access data phone books etc on their present invention apparatus wherein the invention system will always automatically create in its own memory a backup file for every file stored by the user on his personal invention apparatus will support the modern users daily and growing need not to lose their sensitive personal data files in any of the above frequently happening and common system failure and lost data cases.

The apparatus of the invention therefore can integrate all its user s data storage needs in one small and portable device that can store sensitive data in a secured access and encrypted format structure.

There is a growing tendency in the recent years to put all the modern user communication needs in his smart cellular phone but the storage capacity and the safety of the data the user accumulates during his daily life will be much better managed and protected while serving the data in a separate device as described in the invention apparatus motile functions and capabilities.

The modern user could therefore gain the best solution for his daily needs by carrying with him and using on a daily basis both his smart phone as well as the invention s apparatus. Even in cases that the invention apparatus will be lost or stolen the data in it as well as the user access given by it to other service providers such as the users financial institutes will be secured and no access can be possible to this sensitive data to any other person rather than the user owning this specific apparatus.

Due to the total data handling high security and safety by using the invention apparatus it can serve also for processing fully secured financial transactions while keeping full records of the transaction stages and partners both in the invention apparatus memory as well as in the invention system server memory.

In one preferred embodiment of the present invention apparatus the apparatus is managing personal and secured data and documentation files stored in the apparatus the apparatus comprising A a sensor module comprising a plurality of biometric sensors for reading a plurality of personal biological identification parameters of the user holding the apparatus the apparatus being uniquely identified with the user and B a processing module in communication with the sensor module for processing their personal biological identification parameters and for processing and managing the personal and secured data and documentation files associated with the apparatus user and C an authentication unit in communication with the processing module configured to receive and authenticate the identity of the apparatus user by comparing the apparatus unique user s personal biological identification parameters as read by the sensor module and processed by the processing module with a pre recorded set of personal biological identification parameters stored in the apparatus authentication unit and D an encryption module in communication with the apparatus processing module for the encryption plus compression and or decompression plus decryption of the apparatus s user s data files and E a memory module in communication with the processing module and the encryption module for the storage of the apparatus s user s data and documentation files and F communication and data connection set of means in communication with the processing module for connecting the apparatus with an external device wherein access to the user s stored personal data and documentation files associated with the unique user is only enabled after positive authentication of the user s personal biological identification parameters by the authentication unit.

In another further embodiment of the present invention apparatus at least one of the apparatus s integrated pluralities of biometric sensors is a life signs detector wherein the life signs detector is configured to measure and record at least one of the user s life sign parameters.

Yet in another further embodiment of the present invention apparatus at least one of the user s life sign parameters is measured by any of a group of life sign indicators including a body pulse rate measurement indicator a body Osaturation level indicator a body heat measurement indicator an electro dermal activity indicator a body respiration indicator and a physical or emotional stress indicator.

In another embodiment of the present invention apparatus whenever any of the group of life sign indicators detects a critical level the apparatus is configured to initiate an emergency call to any of a group of registered emergency centers and send to the registered emergency centers any of a group of data files containing information associated with the user including the identification data file of the user personal medical data file of the user the measured set of life sign parameters of the user and location of the user.

In another further embodiment of the present invention apparatus the apparatus has an integrated emergency button in communication with its processing module and the apparatus communication and data connection means module and when the emergency button is being activated communication is initiated between the apparatus and any of a group of registered emergency centers the apparatus emergency call transmitting any of a group of data files containing information associated with the unique user of the invention apparatus including the identification data of the user the personal medical data file of the user and location of the user.

In another further embodiment of the present invention the apparatus is further comprising an integrated software module that automatically detects the operating system of the computer or cellular phone connected to the apparatus through one of a group of communicating devices through which the apparatus is connected and wherein the computer or cellular phone have a keyboard and display units associated therewith thereby allowing the user to interact with the memory module and with the processing module of the apparatus via the external devices keyboard and display units whereby the computer or cellular phone is configured to utilize and interact with the memory module the processing module and the sensor module of the apparatus.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for managing personal and secured data and documentation files of a plurality of unique users each one of the plurality of unique users having a personal identification unit uniquely associated with the one user for storing each user s personal data and documentation files each of the personal identification units comprising a sensor module comprising a plurality of biometric sensors and a processing module in communication with the sensor module and an authentication unit in communication with the processing module and an encryption module in communication with the processing module and a memory module in communication with the processing module and the encryption module and communication and data connection means in communication with the processing module. The method comprises the steps of a the sensor module reading a plurality of personal biological identification parameters of the user holding the apparatus and b the authentication module comparing the personal biological identification parameters of the user with a pre recorded set of personal biological identification parameters stored in the authentication unit and c if the authentication unit positively identifies the user allowing the user access to the user s personal data and documentation files stored in the memory module and allowing the user to communicate with other communication means through the apparatus.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for managing personal and secured data and documentation files of a plurality of unique users the system comprising A a system manager for managing and updating personal data of the system plurality of unique users and for communicating with each of the plurality of unique users and B a memory sub system connected to the system manager to store updated personal data of each of the plurality of unique users and C a plurality of personal identification units each of the personal identification units being associated with a unique user each unique user being registered with the system manager and the personal ID data file of each unique user being stored in the memory sub system and D a plurality of computer hosts and cellular phones in communication with the system manager enabling the direct connection by the system manager with the plurality of unique users through their corresponding personal identification unit and E a plurality of registered emergency centers and a plurality of registered service providers in communication with the system manager the plurality of service providers including banks credit card companies insurance companies clinics hospitals and medical insurance companies government municipal and utility entities and selected websites frequently accessed by the plurality of users and wherein the system manager s access to and communication with the personal data and documentation files stored in the personal identification units associated with each of the unique users and to the personal data and documentation files stored by the group of service providers is only enabled after positive authentication of the unique user s personal biological identification parameters by the authentication unit.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for managing personal and secured data and documentation files of a plurality of unique users the system further comprises a computerized call center configured to receive phone calls or emergency voice and data messages from any of the plurality of registered emergency centers and a plurality of registered service providers and to communicate with any of the plurality of cellular phone and host computers and wherein the call center is configured to communicate the user s location coordinates to an emergency rescue team and simultaneously the call center is configured to communicate with any of the plurality of registered emergency centers and service providers to receive the user s updated medical data and to transfer the data to the user s personal identification unit.

The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description of the embodiments thereof taken together with the drawings.

It would therefore be highly advantageous to have a highly confidential personal data and information management and storage combined solution both on the user s personal portable device level as well as the multi users system level that enable improved and highly secured personal or organizational data access storage and management locally and remotely serving the daily needs of secured and highly confidential data access of private users as well as for large organizations internal staff.

In the following description various aspects of the invention will be described. For the purposes of explanation specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that there are other embodiments of the invention that differ in details without affecting the essential nature thereof. Therefore the invention is not limited by that which is illustrated in the figures and described in the specification but only as indicated in the accompanying claims with the proper scope determined only by the broadest interpretation of said claims.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present disclosure.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as storing computing communicating authenticating or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred system embodiment the disclosure is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and so on.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may include apparatuses for performing the operations described herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer controlled device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer.

Furthermore the disclosure may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The invention data processing managing and storage system as well as the present invention apparatus are also adapted for storing and or executing program codes may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements may include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code has to be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and so on can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

The present invention is of a system an apparatus and a method combining and supporting highly secured data encryption personal sensitive data storage transfer management and handling carried out by and through the invention computerized Internet and telephony based dedicated system. Supporting the system and its registered and pre approved users secured access needs is the dedicate present invention apparatus having an integral built in multiple level set of bio sensors for collecting and measuring the device owning user personal parameters measured data. The present invention apparatus is used for highly reliable and safe and approved authentication of the device owner. The invention combined dedicated system is enabling very sensitive personal data access personal private data exchange and personal private data storage by a plurality of similar such pre approved users communicating and operating through said dedicated system with a multiple of specially authorized and pre approved services providers. The system registered users are using as a highly safe and secured access key their dedicated hand held devices or apparatuses which are acting for each such system registered user as his personal data entry authenticator. The invention apparatus has a built in highly secured and encrypted mass memory solid state data storage module both of which reside within said personal or organizational hand held compact size dedicated apparatus. Each of the invention system s pre approved user s needs to use his specific personal and private present invention apparatus in order to provide him or her with a secured and safe accesses to the invention combined and highly secured dedicated system.

The principles the building blocks and functional modules layout and the various functional operations of a system and an apparatus according to the present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and the accompanying description.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates the dedicated system related to an embodiment of the present invention when a pre approved user is getting an access to the system through any one of the system server based multi user I O terminals or through any kind of a host personal computer or alternatively getting the access through a digital landline phone or a cellular phone unit . Secured access to the system is enabled by passing the user through a sequence of at least three bio parameters measurement and authentication process carried out by the user s apparatus .

The entire system controlled and managed by a computerized server manager subsystem is securely transmitting and receiving processing and storing all the system users set of ID data and secured large memory capacity personal dedicated data to be stored on the storage subsystem. The system is interphasing its activities through the internet infrastructure by using the system website server . Multiplexer sub module enables the central system server communication and data transfer from the landlines and cellular and phone networks through the switches and and multiplexed to the system server trough multiplexer module . The system sever is another server subsystem of the system multiple users data management center which manages the system secured connection and communication through a secured firewall gate protected switch which manages the system secured connection and data exchange communication through the internet or through multiple dedicated point to point communication lines and channels to a plurality of pre approved number of government offices municipalities and other selected secured services and products purchasing providers as well as external personal memory data banks that the system needs to securely communicate and exchange relevant data with them for its registered plurality of user.

Server is also responsible for managing the communication through a secured firewall gate protected switch which manages the system secured connection and communication through the internet or through multiple dedicated point to point communication lines and channels with a large number of registered banks and insurance institutes and other financial institutes that have accumulated and continuously updating relevant highly secured personal data related to each of the system multiple users and that the system needs to communicate with and download and upload data relevant to each of the system registered multiple number of users.

Server is also responsible for managing the communication through a secured firewall gate protected switch which manages the system secured connection and communication through the internet or through multiple dedicated point to point communication lines and channels with a large number of registered hospitals medical insurance companies clinics medical testing laboratories and medical imaging centers that generate and have accumulated and continuously updating relevant highly secured medical personal data about each of the system users that the system needs to communicate with and down load and upload data relevant to each of the system registered multiple number of users.

System has an emergency management integrated section that enables any of the system s registered users to immediately connect with the system in an emergency case. Connection is enabled by the user when pressing on an integral dedicated emergency button the user has in his apparatus when the apparatus is connected to a cellular phone or to a host computer . In such a case a connection sequence is created between the user apparatus and the system server the system server then identifies this connection as an emergency message and directs the emergency message to emergency server . The emergency message includes a continuously updating medical and user ID details data package stored in the apparatus .

From the emergency server the user emergency message will be forwarded to the system s special controls and emergency management center this emergency center will be regularly managed by human operators for further handling and best managing the user emergency situation. The center may then select and call through the emergency management network the medical rescue team which is most relevant and geographically closest to the user as well as the final destination hospital or medical treatment center and provide the emergency rescue team and the hospital with the user name and ID data his present geographical location and all the personal and medical data files of the user that are stored in the system memory related to this user. The hospital will receive the specific user s full set of relevant health and medical related data files stored in the system memory while the rescue team will get only the emergency data package stored on the user s apparatus . The emergency center will also be able to work automatically without human intervention and will in case of no human presence at the emergency center contact the national medical emergency services phone number and read to them in a synthetic voice for example the content of the emergency message created and generated by the user personal apparatus and in parallel will transfer the same emergency message content to the emergency messages reception section at the website of the national emergency center. In the case where the user connects to the system though his cellular phone the invention apparatus detects if the connected cellular phone has a built in GPS unit. Since GPS is becoming a very common module in most smart phones then the apparatus controller may read from the cell phone the local position of the user in the emergency case and will be able to transmit the user s present location data to the system emergency management center for further notifying this information to the rescue units.

A possible block diagram layout configuration of the present invention apparatus and the related apparatus s user operation in using the apparatus for secured data communication and storage in a preferred embodiment of the invention apparatus is shown in .

The apparatus is comprised of at least 5 different main and essential sub modules and may be also comprised of any combination of additional optional five sub modules each module providing the associated part and special functionality features of the present invention apparatus special features and capabilities. Apparatus preferably is compact sized and is light in weight as possible ergonomically designed to be easily held and operated by and within one palm of any potential user and easily attached to the USB or a similar data communication port of a host computer or of a cellular phone. To support the need for reliable operation of the apparatus in daily use for at least several years it may be also designed to be highly shock and vibration resistant on the same level of durability that modern cellular phone have yet to be water resistant and to have high temperature industrial level endurance capability. For special users in heavy duty applications the apparatus may also be built in and be waterproof and will be in such cases also very durable to wide amplitude and range of vibrations and shocks in a wide range of operational and storage conditions.

Module is the apparatus host terminals cellular phones and other accessories connection support. Module may include any combination of standard USB type and or non standard data connectors extended out of the of the apparatus case a wireless Bluetooth communication interphase a RF medium to short range communication interphase and another in room IR communication interphase data communication interphases with the outer world that will support quick and affordable non contact communication as well as physical connection of the invention apparatus to any computer terminal mobile phone devices ATM and vending machines Etc. Such connectors could be USB data connectors integrated in most standard PC computers and laptops and mini USB or compatible Mini USB data connectors that one could find in all modern smart phone cellular phones models. The preferred embodiment apparatus shown in this figure has in the terminal connection unit a Bluetooth wireless communication interphase circuit to enable easy and quick data communication and non contact short range connection to most market s available cellular phones to some models of laptops and notebooks that have built in wireless Bluetooth data communication capability and through available Bluetooth USB plug in token dongle type devises that enable contact less data communication with all modern PC and laptop notebook types of host computers.

Module is the module containing the apparatus authentication dedicated set of biosensors wherein in the preferred embodiment demonstrated in this figure the apparatus includes two biometric sensors with different optics that are based on imaging. Sensor is an imaging camera based sensor that images the user specific face pattern or the user s eye iris and generates a set of parameters that are specific to the user face pattern or his iris structure and pattern and are based on processing and compressing the specific user face or eye iris pattern and colors. The imaging sensor may be a conventional two dimensional Black White solid state miniature camera or a similar color camera or a 3 dimensional imaging camera that is based on the integration of either two perspectives images 3 D conventional imaging components or laser holographic imaging of the user s 3 D face pattern. Activation of camera sensor is carried out by pressing camera on off button the user presses the button whenever he needs to pass through an authentication process. The camera will operate until it grabs a good quality image of the user s face features to enable processing of the user s unique face structure parameters. After grabbing the user s face image the camera s power is shut off in order to save the apparatus s battery power. If the camera does not shut down when needed the user can always shut the camera down by pressing again button .

Imaging sensor is one or more fingerprint sensors that image and analyze the fingerprint of one or two of the user s fingerprints. Sensor is biological life sign detection and measurement dedicated electro optical sensor that through projection of a diode laser illumination on the user s holding palm internal blood vessels and the detection and processing and measurement of the back reflected light signal from these blood vessels it measures the heart pulse rate of the user while holding the apparatus in his palm and also measures the oxygen O content in in the user blood at that moment. These two sensors are based on a single electro optical unit that projects laser or LED diodes light on the user palm and then screens and analyses the modulation of the back reflected light to calculate and monitor the amount of oxygen in user s the red blood cells and the pulsating fluctuation in his blood vessels that due to the user heart bit rate. If the user is in a stress state like the situation that he is forced to use the device by another person then his blood pulse rate will be out of normal range and the apparatus will not enable the authentication process positive termination unless the heart bit rate will be normal again and for at least a predefined time period. The sensor will be an adaptive sensor so it will measure the heart bit rate every time the user will use it and will make a smart moving average of the heart pulse rate results change in time to act as an adaptive threshold specifically adapted to the apparatus s personal user typical or normal heart bit rate. The Ocontent part of this sensor will measure the well being of the user and will stop the authentication process if there are any abrupt changes in the measures O as well as stop the authentication process if the measured Olevel is not in the normal range of 90 100 oxygen content.

Another possible embodiment of the present invention apparatus may contain alternative life parameter measurements indication by one or more sensors that can replace or be added on top of sensor to detect the user s evidence normal or abnormal emotions these are called Affect Sensors. They are used to detect information related to emotional cognitive and physical arousal of a user. These sensors are coupled with algorithms that are specifically designed to distinguish and classify patterns associated with the user emotional states. Among this group the apparatus may include sensors that can detect physiological signals such as electrodermal activity and respiration.

Electrodermal activity may be measured by a skin voltage sensor like the Biowave developed by the company Infusion Systems Ltd. from Quebec Canada that developed a sensor that captures the skin surface voltages.

Another similar sensor is the Skin Conductance SC sensor Flex Pro Sensor SA9309M that is sold by the US Company WorldWorks Unlimited Santa Rosa Calif. 95404. This sensor measures the skin s ability to conduct electricity. A tiny electrical voltage so small it is not felt by the user is applied through two electrodes usually connected to two fingers of one hand in order to establish an electric circuit where the user becomes a variable resistor. The real time variation in conductance which is the inverse of the resistance an alternative measure of the Galvanic Skin Response is calculated changes in SC reflect changes in the activity of the user sympathetic nervous system. As a user becomes more or less stressed the skin s conductance increases or decreases proportionally. Skin conductance galvanic skin response and electro dermal response EDR are different terms for similar physiological measures. The standard measurement unit for conductance is called Siemens. Skin conductance is measured in micro Siemens. Some biofeedback systems display skin conductance in micro mhos.

Module is a hardware and software combined module containing the apparatus sub module for carrying out the user final authentication by first digitizing and processing the output of module set of sensors and then combining the measured results of the multi sensors tests output to a final go no go user s authentication result. Positive authentication result is only achieved when positive results are derived from at least three biological parameters measuring sensors as detailed herein. This module also includes a sub module that stores a set of data files that are defined by the user as private yet non secured so they may be stored in the original digital format without encryption. These data files may store the apparatus owner full name and his national ID number or National Security number passport number driver license number date and country of birth address and any additional similar information that appears in the user various cards and his picture. This picture and also other information such as height and eye color for example will be sent as a highly reliable patient identification to the rescue team in case of an accident. It may also include the apparatus owner s private main medical data which is needed in case of an emergency for initial medical treatment. The data may include medical data such as the user s blood type sensitivity to medications chronic diseases last standard blood tests results and the user recent medical treatments data of the apparatus owner for example. It may also include name and contact details of a selected relative contact person to be called by the rescue medical team in case of emergency and the contact details of his private doctor in case the user has a chronic disease such as heart or a gastro problems.

The medical emergency team may have a special token that can be connected to the USB plug in the apparatus and when needed and the emergency button is pressed then that apparatus stored emergency data stored in sub module will be automatically downloaded into this emergency team special token together with the user s picture to verify that the user s apparatus belongs to this specific user. Emergency button may be also pressed by the apparatus user himself in case he does not feel well or if he is involved in an accident. Whenever emergency button is pressed by the user while holding the apparatus in his hand the user is being authenticated by the apparatus controller module . At this stage the user s name his ID data and the user emergency medical data as stored in memory module are all sent to the invention system server and from there to the emergency control room unit .

From there the emergency call will be forwarded to various medical units through a network of dedicated communication lines and the internet network infrastructure. Using the system emergency control room and the related user s emergency situation maintenance service will enable a reliable and quicker service for the user or the control room manager to help the emergency rescue team and provide first medical aid and other types of help from a spectrum of medical assistance units.

When the apparatus needs to communicate with the outer world through a cellular phone or a host computer terminal it first sends the command to connect the user apparatus to the Internet. Then the apparatus sends to the selected service provider website the data needed to connect the user to this specific website such as the specific site user s registered user name his password and if needed also an account in case of a financial institute or member number. When connected to the service provider website in some cases the apparatus might be requested by the service provider website manager to provide another data file that identifies the legitimate registered user specific apparatus by transferring a file containing the ID unique embedded numbers of the specific apparatus and its user ID data. If needed and requested this additional data file may also include the user s national ID card number and or his national security number and or it passport or driving license number so that the receiving entity such as a medical institute or a bank can compare this data to a reference data stored in its memory before it starts secured personal data exchange with the apparatus and its user.

Module is the central controller and data processing unit for apparatus . Unit is an advanced generation low power CPU processor such as the ARM. The ARM is a 32 bit reduced instruction set computer RISC with instruction set architecture ISA offered by ARM Holdings a technology company headquartered in Cambridge UK. The relative simplicity of ARM processors makes them suitable for low power applications and a preferred CPU solution in mobile and portable electronic devices.

Module will control the operation of all the apparatus sub modules but also will do through sub module the encryption and the deciphering data processing work carried out by memory sub module upon storage and retrieval processes of all the highly secured user s personal data files stored in the secured mass memory sub module . Module will also make the required data processing on the output of the apparatus integrated at least 3 bio sensors done through sub module . Module will store the registered user s original initial registration step bio sensors measured output for reference and module will also process the authentication parameters output data formatted reference file from the sensors reference output. Module will create via the authentication sub module the authentication process and the related decision required to enable operation of the apparatus only by the legitimate owner and user of said specific apparatus. Module also includes sub module that acts as the emergency button interphase circuits that triggers the processing of module stored data that creates and sends a user s private and dedicated medical emergency situation data package when needed to the emergency services and rescue teams and to the system emergency center .

Module also includes an embedded SW sub module that has the function to support the apparatus automatic adaptation required to enable two way communication with all commonly used Operating Systems OS software packages resident on the external host computer or on the cellular phone that the user has linked his apparatus to. This automatic adaptation by the apparatus s controller unit for quick adaptation to the external CPU OS needs is highly required in order to operate with the host or cellular phone in case of a simple apparatus data updating and management process or to communicate with other users or systems in most cases through the invention secured communication and personal data storage and management system required in most cases to communicate with the outer world. Such OS automatic identification interphasing and communication SW package resident in sub module can automatically recognize adapt itself and communicate through data connection sub module with any host computer running on Microsoft s Windows or Mac OS or Unix OS resident in such host computer or for interphasing with the OS of a cellular phone such as Symbian or Android Embedded Linux Palm or Blackberry OS all commonly used in advanced cellular phones also called smart phones. RIM

Operating Systems offer a number of services to application programs. Applications access these services through application programming interfaces APIs or system calls. By invoking these interfaces the application may request a service from the Operating System pass parameters and receive the results of the operation. In cases where the host computer is one typical terminal in a cluster of a multiple array of terminals of large system such as Unix like systems including http en.wikipedia.org wiki Free software free Unix variants such as GNU Linux and BSD the user interface at the host side is always implemented as software that runs outside the host Operating System. In some other OS like Windows the Window manager can be part of the operating system itself.

While servers generally run Unix or some Unix like operating system embedded system markets are split amongst several operating systems although the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems has at this time almost 90 of the client PC market other such case OS can be Mac OS or Google chrome OS or other host type resident OS.

While the apparatus controller unit can automatically detect and adapt itself to communicate and interact with all commonly available Operating Systems managing the host or cellular phone that apparatus is connected to unit also can interphase with the external host computer or cellular phone devise it is connected with in a way that regardless of the type of host computer or cellular phone the apparatus is connected to. The displayed screens and the apparatus supported operational functions selection menus that are displayed on the host computer monitor or the cellular phone display screen may all look the same and function in the same way.

The present invention apparatus holds in its controller s operational memory a dedicated software package that is capable of identifying by the SW module the Operating System of the host computer or the cellular phone apparatus to which it is connected to. Then SW package automatically converts all the prepared and stored interaction screens and menus of the apparatus to fit the host computer or cellular phone detected operating system and the dedicated SW package automatically makes the corrections and required adaptations in the apparatus to host or Cellular phone interphasing SW modules so that the displayed screens and menus on the host or cellular phone screens will always look the same to the user while viewing the host computer or the cellular phone screens regardless to the specific host or cellular phone type and model the apparatus is connected to by the user.

Mass memory secured data module includes the encryption SW and hardware sub modules that will encrypt and compress the user s highly sensitive private and personal medical and financial data files as well as carrying out the counter operations of decompression and deciphering of the sub module stored secured personal data when needed.

In order to ensure that the encryption process will be highly immune to potential hackers trials to break the encryption code and read the personal highly secured data of the apparatus user the encryption keys required to encrypt and decipher the secured data in sub module will be stored in a separate special memory partition located in the other memory module under a secured memory storage structure and in a way that it will be very hard for the hacker to allocate them and use them when he might try to break the encryption codes of the data stored in the secured data memory sub module . Sub module is part of the memory and authentication larger module .

The apparatus user sub module is a very large data storage medium based on solid state memory chips preferably but not exclusively of Flash memory type. An alternative solution for the sub module may be a new generation of erasable multiple use memory device which is the Nano RAM. The Nano RAM is a proprietary computer memory technology from the company Nantero. It is a type of nonvolatile random access memory based on the mechanical position of carbon nanotubes deposited on a chip like substrate. In theory the small size of the nanotubes allows for very high density memories. Nantero also refers to it as NRAM in short.

Typical storage space required in sub module will be in the range of 16 256 Gigabyte data storage capacity and may be better configured with advanced memory components such as NRAMs to have data storage capacity of up to several hundred Gigabytes and in specific users requirements can be upgraded to up to several Terabytes of compressed data storage capacity while still maintaining a very compact and minimal physical volume as required for a compact size hand held device such as apparatus .

Sub module is a RFID receiver and transmitter unit that enables remote identification of the apparatus and its user by other systems which have integrated RFID units. Sub module may support the use of apparatus as an electronic contactless key to enable safe secured and easy access through secured entrance gates and doors and in other cases also enables by pressing the RFID button the use of apparatus for safely and remotely opening and locking private homes and offices keyless RF operated door locks and cars.

Sub module is a RF Transceiver unit that can receive encoded RF commands from a remotely located apparatus s dedicated charger and data backup unit described in . Unit is usually located at a short to medium distance from the apparatus . Sub module once triggered by a coded RF signal coming from the charger and data backup unit will operate an electronic sound buzzer circuit located in the controller module to enable quick and easy finding and allocation of the apparatus by the apparatus s personal user.

Units and together may create the combined electrical power source and multiple voltage electronic power supply sub module of the apparatus . Unit may be lithium NiCd or other dry cell rechargeable battery situated in a battery housing that can be opened to change the battery if needed. Unit may also connected to the terminal through which the battery recharges when the connector integrated in module is plugged for charging and memory backup into the dedicated device . Power supply unit may provide all the required voltages to the electronic module and the memory modules and also it may provide the voltages required to the sensors unit and to the RF transceiver and RF ID units and . Apparatus s main on off switch controls the on off status of the power supply unit operation and though it the on off operational status of the entire apparatus .

Apparatus may include in another preferred embodiment an optional additional GPS module that connects to the controller module through its data bus sub module wherein the GPS optional module will enable apparatus to accurately measure and calculate the momentary precise geographical position of the apparatus and its user and in case of emergency when the user will press on the emergency button or alternatively when the apparatus integrated bio sensors module detects an emergency case based on a medical abnormality state of said apparatus user such as if the user s pulse rate as well as his blood oxygen saturation level are both far out of normal range and while the user holds the apparatus in his palm and the apparatus is connected and communicating with the system though the user s cellular phone or connected to any host computer that is connected to the internet network. In this case the emergency updating data package stored in a dedicated processing and storage sub module managed by controller module will be transferred to the system server . From there the emergency case data will be forwarded to the system s special control and emergency management center for further handling of the user emergency situation notification and then the emergency management center will select and call through the emergency management network to the most relevant and closest to the user medical rescue team and provide the team with the user name and ID data his present geographical location and all the personal and medical data file of the user that is stored in the system memory related to this user.

In case the system does not respond then the apparatus s controller will automatically dial through the connected cellular phone and get connected with the national medical emergency call center number and in a synthetic voice generated by the controller special synthetic voice circuit will indicate the geographical position and the emergency situation stored medical data package of the specific user. Alternatively or in parallel in case that the apparatus can be connected to the internet network by the user through a host computer or through a smart cellular phone the apparatus will then connect through the host or phone to the website of the national medical emergency services and will send to this website an emergency case notification and a data file including the user name and ID data and all the personal and medical data file of the user that is stored in the non encrypted and open to access memory sub module of the user apparatus .

It should be noted that for allocating the apparatus and its user in case of an emergency medical situation of the user the user location can be alternatively calculated and transmitted to the user apparatus by the cellular service provider in case the user is connecting his apparatus to a cellular phone . These cellular phone allocation services are offered today by most cellular services providing companies. Such a connection was previously explained in the section covering system structures and operational method. Therefore the GPS sub module in apparatus is optional in cases of a need to get more precise user s geographical allocation data and might be integrated into apparatus only for users who want a better positional accuracy indication to the rescue and medical teams in case of emergency to the apparatus user.

Apparatus may include in its modular structure two additional optional modules as well as the GPS optional module . One additional optional module may be a display and touch screen optional module that enables a user using the apparatus to communicate with the remote system and to get access and communicate through menus and data typing through the internet with external services providers without the need for the user to have an external cellular phone or to connect to a host computer. Touch screen module will communicate with the apparatus s controller module through bus and interphase sub module An optional third module is a cellular modem acting as the apparatus data communication module that when connected to the apparatus s computer controller module through data bus and the interphase sub module it will support the full scale operation and the execution of all the apparatus functions without the need for connection to an external host computer or to connect the apparatus to a cellular phone. Integration of optional modules and might have some drawbacks such as the need to have an apparatus in a much larger size it will have more power consumption and shorter battery charging life cycle it will have higher price and operational costs as it functions as a cellular phone and needs to be registered at a cellular company and what is more important is that it will have very limited user interaction functionality due to the small size of the apparatus display and visual keyboard.

Another embodiment of the present invention apparatus demonstrating one preferred embodiment of the invention apparatus related to the apparatus physical structure design and look demonstrating also its related I O interphases and its multiple sensors integration preferred solutions as integrated in the apparatus specific embodiment design and structure are shown in

Apparatus front view as appears in shows the front side view of a preferred embodiment and apparatus view A shows the rear side view of the same embodiment of apparatus .

Element in the apparatus as seen on the front view is an extending magnetic card thin profile element that enables interphasing the apparatus with magnetic cards readers writers such as those one can find in any shop or gas stations or ATM machines. Magnetic card element is designed to be normally concealed within the apparatus case and can be extended out of the housing by the user for easy interphasing to and interaction with any magnetic card reader and then exchanging data and further enabling the execution of a transaction through any ATM machine or any purchasing point magnetic card reader. The extension of the magnetic card element out of the apparatus case can be carried out by the user fully pulling out and extending this element only if first it is enabled by the apparatus controller in by releasing in apparatus an internal electronically operated safely locking pin situated inside the apparatus housing The safety pin is released by controller in only when the original apparatus owner and user is actually holding the apparatus in his hands and only after the user has been recognized and positively authenticated by the apparatus controller while comparing the measured bio sensed set of parameters of the apparatus present holder to the set of parameters stored in the apparatus s authentication memory sub module in for the relevant bio sensed parameters of the apparatus legitimate user and owner.

Each of the two elements and represents the dual selectable user s personal bio ID sensor units comprising the group of sensors including but not exclusively an imaging sensor a fingerprint scanning and analysis sensor a user iris reader sensor and a 3D holographic or laser scanning imaging sensor. In the preferred embodiment shown in apparatus front view the aperture belongs to a camera that takes high quality still pictures of the users face and then process it to set of parameters that have very high reliability in exclusively characterizing the user by a set of personal ID characterizing parameters that are related to the user face structure and the measured distances between his main face elements. Element is the ON activation button of the sensor to save apparatus battery power consumption the sensor deactivates itself whenever it has accomplished a satisfactory result of grabbing the face image of the user.

The aperture in the described apparatus front view embodiment belongs to an electro optical sensor that takes high quality images of the user s eye iris and its specific patterns and colors and then processes it to set of parameters that have very high reliability in characterizing the user related to the specific user s eye iris structure and colors.

Element in the apparatus as seen in front view is an extendable or fixed USB connector or any similar industrial level available data access connector that can be used when the user wants to connect the apparatus to his host PC computer or to connect to any multi user computerized server based system using a computer terminal that has data interphasing capability with a data connector of any kind integrated into the computer terminal. Element in the apparatus s front view is a fixed or an extendable mini USB data transfer connector or any other industry data mini size connector equivalent that is integrated into all modern cellular phones a connector that can be used when the apparatus user wants to connect to the outer world through his cellular phone.

Element is the on off switch of the camera unit. Element in this preferred embodiment of apparatus is a third biosensor unit that executes a fingerprint scanning and analysis of the user s thumb finger if he is right handed and naturally holding the apparatus in his left palm.

Element in this preferred embodiment of apparatus is a forth optional biosensor unit that executes a second fingerprint scanning and analysis of the user s left hand middle finger if he is right handed and naturally holding the apparatus in his left palm.

Element is an optional back lighted LCD display and touch screen unit that can be integrated to the apparatus for users that do not own a smart phone and do not have easy access to a host computer and they need to interact with the apparatus controller and review the menu screens and communicate with the system servers as well. In such a user demand the apparatus optional configuration should support and be supplied with the optional cellular modem in that enables the apparatus to function also as a simple cellular phone while dialing out and interaction with the apparatus will be carried out by the touch screen functional capabilities which are a part of this display unit option for apparatus external view .

Element in front view of this apparatus preferred embodiment is a general on off switch of the apparatus which has an integrated ON status indication red light emitting LED.

Element are press button functions for the apparatus integrated RF sub module communication and RFID activation switch for remotely operating and securing operations such as contact less access to secured sites communication with advanced contact less ATM machines smart cards readers and RFID operated door locks and car doors and or ignition switches.

Emergency button is used for pressing by the user in case of emergency in such a case apparatus is connected and communicating with the system if the user is connecting his apparatus to his cellular phone or if he connects his apparatus to any host computer that is connected to the internet network.

Apparatus back view A shows the rear side view of the same preferred embodiment of the apparatus shown front view .

Element in view A is the sensing aperture of the life signs detection biosensor to sense and indicate the real time operation of the invention apparatus by a living and healthy human operator. This sensing function is carried out by a dedicated sensor or combined set of sensors which may be selected of a list of possible life signs indication bio sensors and will be one or more possible bio sensors selected from the group containing at least a body temperature measurement sensor a body pulse rate measurement sensor a body Osaturation level sensor an electrodermal activity sensor and a respiration sensor. The preferred embodiment shown in apparatus view A behind aperture may have a dedicated integrated life signs measurement sensor module made of such combined and integrated two life signs indication dual channel electro optical sensor that measures and performs simultaneously both human body pulse rate in one channel and blood Osaturation level in the other channel which is offered by the company SPO Medical Equipment Ltd. of Kfar Saba Israel www.SPOmedical.com 

Element of view A is the external opening lead and cover of the rechargeable battery housing of the apparatus . The rechargeable buttery in the housing can be replaced or checked by removing the cover lead .

While the invention apparatus has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments it should be appreciated that many variations modifications and other applications of the invention apparatus may be made.

One possible flow chart of the sequence of steps and related process generally designated needed for the use of the invention apparatus while interphasing to a host personal computer or to a cellular phone for activation of various operations between the cellular phone host computer and the apparatus while using the cellular phone display and keyboard operational functions or the host PC monitor and keyboard for the user s interaction with the invention apparatus is shown in .

Stage connects the apparatus to the cellular phone mini USB or compatible connector or connecting apparatus regular USB to a personal computer and then the user is switching on the apparatus .

Stage checks whether the user is properly holding the apparatus in his palm to enable reliable and accurate sensing of the apparatus integrated set of sensors.

In stage the user is starting executing the apparatus user s authentication sequence through the execution of the holding user biometric required parameters testing process which is based on the measurement and processing of at least three biometric parameters as described herein in one preferred embodiment . As will be appreciated by persons knowledgeable in the art in another embodiment fewer biometric parameters such as at least two parameters may be processed. In executing a biometric testing process First tested parameter is a life sign indication sensor output either his pulse rate that should be normal in a predefined normal non active state range say 50 80 PPM or his Osaturation level that should be in the normal range of 90 100 or both should be normal or his body temperature that should be in a normal range of 36 41 degrees centigrade. Second tested parameter is to measure and evaluate the first one of the user s two biometric measured parameters such as one or two of his fingers fingerprints and or the apparatus holding user face pattern set of measured parameters and or the user measured and analyzed iris pattern. Third tested parameter is to measure and evaluated the user second measured biometric parameter such as one or two of the user fingerprints and or the apparatus holding user face pattern set of measured personal parameters and or the user s detected eye iris pattern.

In Stage the at least three presently measured parameters are authenticated when compared and analyzed by the apparatus internal controller and data processing unit . The at least three presently measured parameters are compared to the previously measured analyzed and stored identical at least three parameters of the same apparatus owner stored in memory unit Upon authentication a positive response is created by the apparatus and it continues to stage .

If the authentication process fails then the apparatus controller unit shifts the apparatus to stage wherein the apparatus shuts itself off and blocks the apparatus from further use or operation for a predefined time duration.

In stage the apparatus unit sends to the cellular phone or to the host it is connected to through interphasing unit a request to identify the operating system on which the phone or host unit is running on.

In stage if the unit gets a positive response of identifying a known operating system that is in the apparatus memory bank then it initiates the operation of the related stored operating system dedicated communication interphasing SW package and it continues to stage 

Otherwise it goes back to stage wherein the apparatus controller unit is shutting off the apparatus and blocks the apparatus from further use or operation for a predefined time duration.

In stage the apparatus initiates a main menu screen displayed on the cellular phone or host PC screen enabling the user to select between four options 

B saving a file from the host or the cellular phone memory into the apparatus memory or going to stage 

C searching in the internet for a website of a selected medical institute or financial institute or other going to stage and

D by selecting in the menu to go to stage it is exposing to the user a frame that enables the user to select retrieve or update data and information from and into the apparatus stored data that creates for the user a handy organizer function including the user s various types of needed to be easily accessible personal stored data that includes a personal tabular data base of all the user s set of his registered member data for his frequently visited websites and official certificate cards and point of sale service providers .

Stage provides the user with the user s ID numbers User names and password codes for all his favorite websites that require registration and personal organizer as well as the user s personal phone book and important memos

Another option which may be selected is in this menu. It is implemented in case of a user using the apparatus for purchasing at a store the user can show the merchant his apparatus s stored face picture so the merchant can compare it to the user face that he observes in real time before approving and finalizing a transaction with the user. Option is all the official cards certificate a man need like passport driving license and so on.

In stage the user is exposed to a new screen of the cellular or the PC host display with options to select from A selecting for medical data B selecting for financial data and C selecting for other personal data.

In stage the apparatus initiates a menu displayed on the cellular phone or host screen wherein the user can select from the options 

A injured checked body part B ID code of the requested medical doctor C required HMO medical insurer and D Required hospital then moving to stage .

In stage the apparatus initiates internal memory search for retrieval and display of the relevant data stored in its memory units and .

In stage the apparatus supports operating usable applications enabling the user to compare stored medical financial other data from various periods dates and data sources 

In stage the operational sequence take the apparatus back to stage where the user can select a new option

In stage the user can select from the related hierarchical composite screens by using typical keywords for feeding in or retrieving the user personal DB stored data retrieval from the 5 or more keywords search options A Bank B Insurance company financial institute C Date D Credit Debit transaction deal E Type of expenditure income counter account for the transaction then the sequence moves back to stage to retrieve from the database.

In stage the user gets a menu screen to select a subject to retrieve stored data from the subjects used as search keywords.

In stage the user select keys to retrieve the data refers to the subject he has chosen in stage than goes to stage .

Stage refers to saving new data logically emerging from stage main menu a screen appears on the display of the host or the cellular phone requesting keywords for data storage file subject and date are the main keywords and the user can select up to 5 additional data storage keys suggested from a readymade list said list is different for each subject like described in stages and .

In stage the apparatus controller adds one digit to the last processed user s personal data base record number and this number will be the record number to the newly saved record in the apparatus memory.

In stage the controller creates an encrypting code for each newly processed Record and saves it into the apparatus secured mass storage module .

In stage the user sees on the host or cellular phone screen a list of preferred favorite sites which have in the personal secured data of the apparatus s personal user. In stage if the user clicks on any one of them then the controller moves to stage or if the user clicks in an open data feeding field new website address then the controller moves the sequence to stage .

In stage the controller detects the URL internet address of a user selected preferred favorite website and then the controller feeds in from the memory the stored specific site predefined user name and password into the selected page user ID data feed spaces to enable the user to get easy and automatic access to any such selected favorite website as a registered and access authorized member.

In stage the host or the cell phone automatically moves to display the first registered user s website entrance screen at the selected website address to display the selected site registered members home page and to enable the user to further interact with the selected website and associated personal data he may wish to find there like his personal medical tests results prescriptions and bank statements.

In stage a screen appears requesting the user to either save his personal data he got from the website he has visited going back to stage how to save this day and under what search keys alternatively the user can go back to stage where he can choose another apparatus operation optional activity from the main menu.

In stage the user gets an internet screen and he types a new address as he likes and gets his wanted information. In stage the controller generates a two options selection screen one is to save the retrieved personal results in the Device memory then it goes to stage otherwise it suggests the user to purchase a service or a product than it goes to stage .

Stage requests the user to define the kind of credit card the user wants to execute and the selected purchase transaction after selecting the preferred user credit card for this transaction the controller takes from the apparatus s secured memory the file containing the user s credit card number the user name card expiration date and the other card secret code number and sends this data to the vendor stage .

In stage a screen appears questioning the user if to save the transaction details and then go to and if not the user may be transferred and select another activity option from the main menu screen .

Stage takes the user out of the apparatus to host operational process and disconnects all communication between the apparatus and the host computer or the cellular phone.

A possible flowchart of the process steps generally designated associated with the use of the invention apparatus while a user is establishing a connection with the invention system and applying the invention apparatus to be authenticated and get access to the system servers is shown in . The described process in this flowchart is starting from the user authentication stage up to the stage of getting an approved access to the system servers data and for the user further interaction with the system to fulfill specific data search and updating tasks is shown in .

Stage connects the user s apparatus to his cellular phone mini USB or a compatible connector or connecting the apparatus USB connector to a USB slot in a personal computer or establishing a Bluetooth wireless data connection between the apparatus and the user s cellular phone when the user switches on the apparatus .

In stage the user holds the apparatus in his palm pressing his fingers to the fingerprint sensors and as seen in looking into the apparatus camera aperture and or focusing his line of site to the center of the iris imaging sensor aperture . In parallel on the other side of the apparatus the user is attaching his palm to the physiological sensor aperture which senses the user s heart bit rate and his blood oxygen saturation level sensing his blood then pressing the on off button that starts the authentication process.

In stage the apparatus then executes a biometric sensing and testing sequence of the holding user three biometric parameters. One is a life sign indication sensor output either his pulse rate that should be normal in a predefined normal non active state range say 50 80 PPM or his Osaturation level that should be in the normal range of 90 100 or his body temperature that should be in a normal range of 36 41 degrees centigrade. The other two measured and evaluated parameters are the user s one or two of his fingerprints and or grabbing and processing the holding user face pattern set of measured parameters and or the user eye iris image grabbing and then analyzing the iris image structure and pattern.

Stage is a junction point for options evaluation and decision stage. If the user s measured and processed set of bio parameters fits to the apparatus s original user s first registration stored set of bio parameters in unit then the process continues to stage otherwise the process stops at stage .

In stage the user receives a text message on the connected cellular phone or host computer screen that the authentication process failed and the apparatus then shuts off and the user needs to restart and repeat the same process till that stage.

In stage the apparatus controller checks the results of the user s now measured life indication sensor output and if the measured parameters are different in more that 15 than the user s moving average results of previous life indication tests then it goes to stage if the difference is less than 15 then it continues to stage .

In stage the user gets a menu screen on the host or cellular phone display that enables him to choose either to be connected with the invention system for further interaction in stage or to continue working only on interactions with his host computer or smart phone in stage as described in process above.

In stage if the user is a new user that it is his first interaction with the invention system then he has to pass a testing and verification procedure to verify that he is the legitimate owner of the specific apparatus having the apparatus s registered product embedded serial number and therefore the process continues to phase which requires the user to visit in person a service station of the invention system and identity himself in person as well as his personal apparatus in front of an employee of the system a procedure which will be done in stage . If the user is not a first time system entry user then the process goes to stage .

In stage the user identifies himself in front of the system employee by showing his national ID card and at least one additional ID document such as a passport or a driving license for example then the invention system employee reads the embedded serial number of the apparatus by connecting the apparatus to the system computer terminal and then this number is automatically fed into the system memory to the same temporary file where the employee will manually feed the user s set of ID data including his national ID number nationality full name date of birth and his residence address.

In stage the invention system registers the user as a new customer and opens a dedicated new customer basic data file in the system memory and allocating for that user data file a predefined dedicated and private memory space in the non secured section of the system memory. The system manager registers each user and stores the personal ID data file of each user in a memory sub system connected to the system. The registration further includes an additional step wherein the system manager generates for each user N pairs of two different randomly selected alphanumeric characters strings each of said strings is combined of n alphanumeric characters in length.

The system manager stores the N pairs in the system memory sub system and also sends the n characters strings N pairs to be stored in the user personal apparatus. In stage the apparatus while still connected to the system computer terminal generates a random alphanumeric data string with L characters that will serve as the unique user secret access code to his secured private memory partition in the system memory.

In stage the processed L characters string is fed to the invention system and is checked by the system computer if the processed L characters string has not already been processed and fed to the system memory in the past by another registered user s apparatus. If the system computer finds in its records an identical memory ID data string of another already registered user then it goes back to stage and then the apparatus generates a new randomly selected string of L alphanumeric characters. If the system could not find in its records an identical memory ID data string already dedicated to and serving another registered user then this string is selected to be the new secret access code for the newly registered user.

In stage the system computer creates for the newly registered user a secured private memory space in the system mass memory that it will be defined and will be further allocated for this user and could be accessed only by using the specific user secret access code with L characters data string which is stored only in the user s own apparatus.

In stage the user and the system employee receives a written displayed message from the system computer saying that the new user registration has ended successfully and the user can from now on work with and interact with the invention system from any remote location while using his registered personal apparatus for identification and authentication. The user and his apparatus when connected to any cell phone or host computer can now be transferred to work in stage .

In stage and upon normal initiation of communication between the system manager and each user the system manager may further communicate with the user and first compare the user s ID data file and his personal apparatus unique embedded characterizing serial number as stored in the user s personal apparatus with the corresponding user s and apparatus s identification data stored in the system memory module. If the two sets of identification data match then the system manager sends a first string of the stored N strings of coded alphanumeric data to the user s apparatus and the user s apparatus responds with the second matching string from the same stored pair of coded alphanumeric data uniquely associated with the user s apparatus and the system manager compares the received second string of coded alphanumeric data with a second string of coded alphanumeric data pre stored in the system s memory. Then the system manager compares for consecutive M out of N times the received additional different strings of coded alphanumeric data pre stored in the memory of the user s apparatus that is associated with the unique user with the additional strings of coded alphanumeric data pre stored in the memory of the system.

In stage if all M strings of coded alphanumeric data match then the system manager authenticates the user and permits the user access to the system and the process goes to stage . Otherwise the system goes to stage which ends the session.

In stage the user is already a system registered user and can be connected to the system after a short identification and authentication sequence as detailed herein. In this stage the user selects from the main menu displayed to him on his host screen he can choose the option to work and interact with the system and can choose between several interaction options. If the user chooses to work in the unsecured part of the system stored data the user chooses the menu option that transfers him to stage . If the user chooses to work in the user s secured and protected part of the system stored data then he chooses the menu option that transfers him to stage . If the user chooses to work and interact through the systems on his financial and insurance issues the user can do it through the system and can get safe and secured access to all his relevant banking services insurance companies investment houses pension funds etc. All the relevant data is being easily accessed and managed by the system through a dedicated menu screen the user chooses the menu option that takes him to stage . If the user chooses to work and interact through the systems on his medical issues and through the system to get access to all his relevant medical services hospitals and clinics data all managed by the system through a dedicated menu the user chooses the menu option that takes him to stage . If he wants to end the interaction with the system the user chooses option that closes the communication with the system 

In stage the user s apparatus sends via the host or cellular phone that is connected to the system secured access code which is the memory ID data string created in stage .

In stage if the string is recognized as a legitimate string associated with the user the processes continues to otherwise it shifts the user to stage and shows him again the main menu with several choice options.

In stage the system checks at the background all the time if the user has pressed on the emergency button or alternatively in stage if the physiologic sensor detects abnormality in the user physical condition and it sends an alarm that the user is not in a normal health condition. If an emergency is indicated then the system goes to stage otherwise it continues to stage for processing financial oriented activities. The system continuously checks that the user is connected to the financial section of its services if the user has pressed the emergency button of his apparatus or alternatively in stage if the physiologic sensor detects abnormality in the user physical condition and it sends an alarm that the user is not in a normal health condition and if yes the system goes to stage and the user s interaction with the system supported financial services section stops.

In stage the user after the stage of requesting interaction with non secured data and the user s apparatus is requested by the system to transfer to the system the ID data of the user and the apparatus embedded serial number from the apparatus memory.

In stage the system checks if the numbers and data stored in its memory are matching those received from the linked user s apparatus and if positive it continues to stage for further interaction with the system and external services providers and if not it goes to stage for a second authentication stage.

In stage a second human operator based authentication sequence is undertaken with the user at the system clients security center to check if the apparatus belongs to the user that holds it this process is carried out every time the system does not authenticate the user during any of the user s access checking stages as detailed in stages and and or in and . The employee at the system security center checks if the legitimate apparatus user face picture stored in the apparatus memory matches the face of the user that came to the office the system employee also asks the user to operate an authorization process with the apparatus he claims is his in front of the system employee. If that second human supervised authentication process results are negative then it starts a security investigation with that user.

Stage is related to an emergency case message received at the system s special control and emergency management center . The center team automatically receives from the user s apparatus through the communication lines the entire user s ID data stored in the user s apparatus including his national ID number and his medical insurance number and the name of the medical insurance company is registered in. In addition the center team receives the data on the user s emergency contact person as stored in his apparatus memory

In stage the emergency center team may contact this person via his cell phone and also contact and request the user s emergency case contact persons to get to this person detected location as soon as possible.

In stage if the emergency center is calling and the user is answering his phone and requesting for medical or other type of immediate help then the process goes to stage . Otherwise the user may get access to his most updated medical records stored in the system memory in a process undertaken in stage and then the user may download them to his apparatus through the host computer or cell phone before he goes by himself to get medical assistance.

In stage the emergency center team are calling the user location rescue team nearest to the user and giving them by phone the user s exact location and a briefing on the user s medical emergency case records as stored in his personal apparatus. In parallel the emergency center team updates all the medical records of this user stored in the system memory and prepares a full medical file report on this user which is transferred electronically or by fax to the emergency room team in the selected hospital to which the rescue team are intending to take the user to for further treatment.

In Stage the user is connected to a menu that supports all the user s needs to deal with and interact with non secured personal data and connection related with the user interaction needs with government and municipalities institutes universities customers clubs for example.

In Stage the user is connected to a menu that supports all the user s needs to deal with and interact with secured personal data related with the user interaction needs with banks other financial institutes insurance companies etc.

In Stage the user is connected to a menu that supports all the user s needs to deal with and interact with secured personal data related with the user s interaction needs with hospitals 

In stage the user receives on his host display the menu related to storage and retrieval of his secured personal data to and from his personal apparatus.

In stage the user interaction with the system ends or the user may choose to be transferred back to the interaction with the system main menu which is represented by stage .

Another possible flowchart of the process steps generally designated associated with the use of the invention apparatus and the user interaction with the invention system done after the stage wherein the user is positively authenticated and obtains an approved access to the invention system and then establishes a connection with the invention system. The described process in this flowchart is starting from the stage when the user is obtains a secured access through the system to various kinds of banks credit card companies and financial institutes as needed to fulfill specific related data searches and for records updating and executing financial transactions the process starts when the user has reached the first stage and start of process in the invention system user s access creation process is described in .

In the first stage of process the user receives a menu screen enabling him to choose a credit card company shifting to stage a bank company shifting to stage or to an insurance company shifting to stage . If the user dose not wants to proceed in any of these routes he can choose to go back to the previously described stage in .

In stage the user has chosen the bank selection option and obtains a list of the system registered banks menu to select the bank he is interested in or that he has an account in it.

In stage the invention system is connecting through a highly secured communication line with the user s selected bank and the specific branch he works with.

In stage the user s apparatus is sending to the selected bank and branch the user s bank account and the user s ID data e.g. username and password in the format requested by the specific chosen bank.

In stage the bank computer is allocating in its memory the specific user registered bank access permit data details and the account status and compares them with the user s related details derived from the user s apparatus memory if the details are matching and the requested bank account is found in the bank records then the process goes to stage if not the user goes back to stage .

In stage the user receives a menu to choose from retrieving details from his account or executing financial transactions. If the user wants to execute financial transactions in his account it goes to stage . If the user wants to retrieve the details of a past transaction he will choose and be transferred to stage .

In stage the user chooses between charging his electronic purse section in his apparatus secured memory sub module with money by continuing to stage or choosing a money transfer operation to a third party account by going to stage .

In stage the screen of the host through which the user is securely interacting with the bank s computer through the invention system requests the user to fill in the empty fields on the screen the name of the third party his account number and his bank and branch details.

In stage the host screen requests the user to enter into the empty field in the screen the amount to be transferred.

In stage if the transaction is approved by the bank it goes to stage if not the process goes back to stage .

In stage a screen on the host display requests the user to enter the parameters of the financial details he wants to retrieve regarding the time range of transaction dates or transaction numbers.

In stage the bank retrieves the requested financial data sends it in a highly secured way via a dedicated communication channel to the invention system and through the system the relevant user s financial data is then transferred and displayed on the user s host computer screen.

In stage the user receives a screen on his host asking him to choose how he wants to store the requested financial data. He can choose between storing it in his apparatus memory or in his personal data memory sector at the system data bank or in both memories in parallel.

In stage the user receives a menu screen to choose from a list of credit card companies or to go back to stage .

In stage the user s apparatus sends the credit card company via the system in a secured format as agreed with the specific credit card company the user s credit card number and the additional credit card data associated with the user name.

In stage the credit card company may approve the card and the process continues to otherwise the process returns to stage .

In stage a screen on the host display requests the user to fill in the details of the entity that should get the funds and the amount of money to credit the selected entity.

In stage the user enters the details of the entity to be credited and if he knows only part of the required details then the user is automatically offered a suggestion by his apparatus on the selected entity full set of details if he did with the selected entity any previous deal in the past. The selected details are then sent through the system to the credit card company. If the transaction is approved then the process continues to otherwise it goes back to the beginning of the interaction with the credit card company stage .

In stage the credit card company approves the transaction and continues to stage otherwise if the transaction is rejected the process goes back to stage .

In stage the credit card company executes the requested transaction and sends via the invention system to the user s apparatus a deal approval detailed note.

In stage the user gets a screen asking him if he wants to process another transaction through any credit card company. If yes the process returns him to stage if not the process goes back stage to keep the transaction in the selected memory choice.

In stage the user receives a menu screen to choose from a list of insurance companies that are approved by the system supervisor and registered at the system server or alternatively to go back to stage .

In stage the system server is contacting and creating direct access to the user s selected insurance company server.

In stage the user s apparatus sends via the system to the insurance company server the user ID data plus his registered user name and password at the specific selected insurance company.

In stage the insurance company server approves the user as a registered client and opens for the user direct access to his accounts in the insurance company. If the user s sent ID and access data was not approved then the user is sent back to stage for another insurance company access trial.

In stage the insurance company gets a specific instruction from the user such as to download a specific insurance policy to his apparatus or to update data in another policy and then the insurance company server approves the user s request. At the end of the user s interaction process the user s access to the insurance company server is closed and the user is sent back to stage .

Another possible flowchart of the process steps is associated with the use of the invention apparatus and the user interaction with the invention system after the stage of the user is positively authenticated and getting an approved access to the invention system and then establishing a connection with the invention system. The described process in this flowchart starts from the user getting secured access through the system with various kind of hospitals medical clinics HMOs and other medial entities and services providers to fulfill specific related data search and for records updating and executing updating of the user s medical records is shown in previous where the process starts when the user has reached stage in the invention system user s access creation process described in .

In stage in process the user has received full access to the invention system as described in and the user has selected the option in his interaction screen to get access to the system memory dealing with his medical records and getting secured access through the system to various system registered medical service providers.

In stage the user receives a menu screen requesting him to choose between medical insurance companies HMO and then he goes to stage or alternatively to choose hospitals then he goes to stage or ending the process by going back to stage .

In stage the system creates secured access to the medical insurance company server that the user is a member of according to the relevant data in the medical records stored in the user apparatus memory.

In stage the apparatus sends to the medical insurance server the user s member username and medical insurance member ID number and if requested also the user s access password to the medical insurance website.

In stage the medical insurance company server checks if the user medical file ID data fits to the ID and user data that was received from the user s apparatus through the invention system and continues to stage if positive and returns back to stage if negative.

In stage the system requests the user to select between several options in a menu screen he gets on through his host or cell phone display. In option the user may choose making a doctor clinic appointment. In choosing option the user requests all his past medical tests results otherwise the user is directed back to stage and then stops if no further action item is selected by him.

In stage the user receives a screen from the medical insurance through the system and to his host display requesting the user to select the type and the name of the medical doctor he wants to meet.

In stage the user receives from the medical insurance computer a final confirmation notice on his host screen regarding the user s final approved medical appointment time and day then goes to stage .

In stage the user receives a menu on his host screen display to choose if he wants to make another appointment. Then he may move to or to see his past medical tests results he goes to or to return to main menu or to save in stage .

In stage the user receives on his host screen display a menu screen from the medical insurance server to select the medical tests results he wants to review.

In stage the user selects the requested tests results and the user s apparatus forwards to the host screen the most updated results the user has in his apparatus memory on this specific test if any.

In stage the medical insurance company server searches its memory records to check if it finds more relevant updated tests data on this user and then it sends the found files to the user s host to enable the user to select either to display the results on the screen or and to save them in his apparatus memory for long term storage.

In stage the user selects his choice on the processing of the retrieved medical tests results and the system goes back to stage which may connect to the save stage in .

In stage the user receives a menu screen on his host display to choose a hospital from a list or to return to stage . He then chooses the preferred hospital from the list and then goes to stage .

In stage the system server contacts the selected hospital via a secured communication channel it has with each of the hospitals in the displayed list and creates an open communication link with the hospital server.

In Stage the user s personal apparatus sends the user s ID data file including full name ID card number and details.

In stage the selected hospital server checks if it has in its records that the specific user was a hospitalized patient or was treated by the hospital s clinics if yes goes to stage if not it goes back to stage .

In stage the user receives a screen with a menu requesting him to choose if he needs a hospital release medical report or medical tests results and the user selects his choice.

In stage the hospital server searches for the selected data files and goes to if the requested data files were found and if not the process goes back to stage .

In stage the user receives a menu screen requesting him to choose where to store the retrieved hospital data in the system memory wherein the user s personal medical data files are stored or in the user s personal apparatus memory or in both then it goes to stage .

After the new medical files are saved and stored in one or two of the selected storage memories in stage then the process goes back to stage where the user gets a new menu screen to start another medical data processing sequence with the invention system and with external medical services providers or goes back to stage in .

Another possible flowchart of the a dedicated process steps is associated with the use of the invention apparatus and the user s interaction with the invention system after the stage in which the user is positively authenticated and getting an approved access to the invention system and establishing an open connection link with the invention system. The described dedicated process in this flowchart is related to the steps of the user needs to store and retrieve data in and out of the system memory bank the related processes are described in which covers the process of data storage and retrieval in the invention system memory.

In step the user is requested by a menu on his host screen to choose between retrieval of data from the system memory and then the process goes to stage . Alternatively if the user selects the option to save data in the system memory then the process goes to stage or if the user wants to end this process it goes to stage .

In step if the data requested is from the non secured data memory partition of the system mass memory bank then the process goes to or if the user needs to retrieve secured data from the secured data partition of the system memory the process goes to .

In stage the system server approves the user s ID and requests to get from the user his selected data retrieval keywords to enable the system server to find the requested data from the system s memory vast data base.

In stage the system server approves the selected search keywords finds the requested data files according to the given keywords and returns to stage .

In stage where the user has selected in stage the option to retrieve secured data files then the user s apparatus sends to the system server for secured identification the apparatus memory stored L alphanumeric characters of the secured access code security string that was generated in the first user s registration stage activities at the system server and is stored both at the apparatus memory as well as in the system memory sector that stores the specific user data.

In stage the system server requests the user to enter the requested secured data files relevant DB access keywords and goes to stage .

In stage the system server retrieves the user requested secured data files according to the user s selected search keywords then the user is requested through the host if to return back to . If the user wishes to store further data or initiate the retrieval sequence he returns to or he may go to end stage and stop.

In stage the user is requested through a menu screen in his host to save the retrieved or the new data in the system non secured data memory sector stage or if he wishes to store the new data in the system secured data memory sector he goes to stage or to go back to stage to restart the entire process .

In stage the system server requests the user while connecting to the user through the host or the cellular phone he is connected to to get the user s selected data base save and retrieval keywords for the specific new data file the user wants to save in his personal files sector in the system s database.

In stage the personal apparatus encrypts the specific file in process and sends it for the user s retrieval to the user s personal files sector in the system s database and then return to stage .

In stage the personal apparatus sends to the system server the hidden user system agreed identification string of L alphanumeric characters of the secured access code.

In stage the system sever requests the user to define and send the user s selected data base save and retrieval keywords for the specific new data file the user wants to save securely encrypted in his non accessible personal files sector in the system s database.

In stage the personal apparatus encrypts the user s file and then sends it to the system server to be stored in the system s secured and encrypted data files memory sector. Then the user can select if to repeat the data handling process and go to stage or to end the process and go to end stage .

In stage the process ends and the user is disconnected from the system server and from his personal apparatus which also shuts down.

Referring now to which illustrates the dedicated device related to the present invention serving as one possible embodiment of a charging and user personal data backup device for the invention apparatus. demonstrates a conceptual modular structure and the related device internal sub modules layout and functionality for the present invention apparatus s charging and data backup device.

Block in is the device mains plug in charging module that includes the device charging plug for its connection to the mains supply an AC DC converter unit and a power supply unit . Unit converts the mains AC voltage to DC voltage and the power supply generates from the converted DC voltage all the DC voltages that are required to drive the device electronic sub module various electronic components.

Sub module includes a battery charger and a rechargeable battery to enable power backup and safe operation of the device in case of lack of voltage supply from the mains electrical power. Sub module is the device main electronic module that includes a micro processor and associated electronics sub module and a mass memory solid state flash memory based sub module that is of a similar memory capacity size when compared to the memory units and combined data storage capacity in the apparatus . The electronic unit automatically checks the memory sub module updating requirements whenever the apparatus is connected through its interphasing data plug to the device connection plug unit . Processor sub module checks the apparatus last updating date and its related secured and non secured memory data content and status and if it is more updated then the data stored in the memory of the device then it creates a mirror image of the apparatus memory sub modules and content in memory unit . In case that for some reason the memory content of the apparatus is erased or injured then the sub module detects it and automatically updates the apparatus memory units and with the last version of the data stored in memory module of devise .

Sub module is an electronic buzzer activation module that operates upon pressing a button located on the device housing an RF transmitter also integrated in this sub module . When a user needs to allocate the exact position of his apparatus in the home or office environment the user presses the module buzzer button then the integrated RF transmitter sub module transmits a coded signal to the Buzzer RF receiver sub module embedded within the apparatus housing and then the detected coded signal activates an electronic sound buzzer that emits an easily detectable sound. The sound buzzer is integrated in the apparatus sub module and enables the user to easily allocate through the generated sound the position of the apparatus in a room or an open space.

