---

title: Wall breaching fragmentation warhead
abstract: The invention describes a wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition and further a warhead having means for efficiently penetrating concrete and masonry walls, effectively delivering an explosive fragmentation case payload with minimum structural damage to the ammunition's projectile body. The effective wall breaching is achieved using an ogive-shaped, high strength, light weight boron carbide ceramic nose cone cap disposed adjacent to a tungsten alloy nose insert, at the fore of the ammunition. The projectile body is generally cylindrically shaped, preferably made of steel or aluminum to withstand expected forces in the launch environment. The ogive-shaped nose cone may be secured circumferentially to the projectile body with a rubber O-ring to ensure a tight seal. The ogive-shaped nose cone minimizes the penetration resistance force and provides more favorable loading onto the ammunition projectile's wall structure, ultimately minimizing the damage to the projectile's fragmenting case and the explosive payload which follows it. The remaining back projectile area may be filled with propellant. Use of light-weight boron carbide material also minimizes interference with possible steel fragment and tungsten alloy fragment spray. The projectile body includes rotating bands to trap propellant gases from escaping during launch which bands can be attached to the projectile body as a separate part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316772&OS=08316772&RS=08316772
owner: The United Stated of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08316772
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100510
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates to the field of ammunition for breaching a hardened target and especially a round to breach reinforced concrete targets. Current hardened targets each require a specialized projectile. For example presently an M830A1 round might be used for breaching steel reinforced concrete walls an M1028 round might be used against light armor targets an M830 round might be used for defeating bunkers and an M908 round might be used for antipersonnel applications. Generally in striking a target barrier wall of steel double reinforced concrete perhaps 8 inches thick many current projectiles are not able to penetrate very deeply. Most current projectiles launched against such barriers flatten out before being able to penetrate and then explode and the projectile warhead breaks into fragments. Although some warhead fragments will penetrate forward into the barrier as intended yet many fragments will not and only be deflected off the barrier. Although the flattening may create a larger area of surface impact the desired effect of clearing the target obstacle from its path isn t necessarily optimized. In most cases the warhead actually fragments in the opposite direction of the course of the projectile away from the target and the barrier does not receive the full effect of the explosive energy. What is needed is a projectile that is able to penetrate comparatively deep into a concrete barrier before exploding with resulting fragments thereof all penetrating into the target. And any possible increase in fragmentation velocity upon detonation will maximize the desired effect of the projectile. A projectile is described in this invention which is capable of puncturing a double reinforced concrete wall with projectile still essentially fully intact and only then to have its warhead be exploded into fragments. This allows fragmentation in a more effective nearly ideal direction and nearly ideal time delay. The projectile of this invention is able to penetrate comparatively deeply into e.g. a concrete barrier before exploding with resulting fragments of the fragmentation device thereof all penetrating into the target as well as any other exploded fragments . This projectile is able to puncture a double reinforced concrete wall projectile fully intact because of the unique nose cap materials. This allows the explosives a better chance for an ideal destructive effect. Another advantage is directional in that fragmentation can this way be made to occur in a more effective direction. And a further advantage is timing. With electronic timed fuzing the most effective timed explosive breaching capabilities can be realized.

This invention relates to a wall breaching explosive fragmentation ammunition and more particularly to a warhead having means for efficiently penetrating concrete and masonry walls and effectively delivering an explosive fragmentation case payload with minimum structural damage to such ammunition projectile. According to an embodiment of the invention a most effective wall breaching can be achieved by using an ogive shaped high strength light weight boron carbide ceramic nose cone cap disposed adjacent to a tungsten alloy nose insert. The projectile cartridge is generally cylindrically shaped and includes a projectile body that is preferably made of steel or aluminum or a material capable of withstanding the necessary forces of the launch environment of this ammunition. The back projectile area generally may be filled with propellant such as JA 2. The projectile body is closed at its front or distal end with the ogive shaped nose cone. The ogive shaped nose cone includes a hollow cylindrical end that engages the distal end of the projectile body and may be secured circumferentially thereto e.g. by means of an O ring not shown . The O ring would be preferably made of rubber to ensure a tight seal between the ogive shaped nose cone and the projectile body. The ogive shaped nose cone minimizes penetration resistance force and provides more favorable loading onto the projectile body wall structure ultimately minimizing damage to the projectile body s fragmenting case and the explosive payload which follows it. The explosive payload might be filled with PAX 3 high explosive e.g. use of light weight boron carbide material also minimizes possible interference with steel fragment and tungsten alloy fragment spray. The projectile body includes rotating bands to trap propellant gases from escaping during launch. These bands also called bourrelets are a ring of material that is softer than the projectile body material to act as seal against propellant gases escaping into the space between projectile body and barrel. The rotating bands are preferably made of copper and can be attached to the projectile as a separate part. The projectile body could also include a further mission canister that is housed within the projectile body as may be desired. In a preferred embodiment such canister might house a fuze timing device and a power source that is activated upon launch of the projectile e.g. the projectile body construction might include use of a joined cartridge case. With such cartridge case engaged to the projectile body the cartridge case would form a low pressure chamber with the projectile body. The projectile could approach a high low pressure concept that starts with a high pressure build up in a small chamber then which bleeds pressure into a low pressure area at a controlled rate in order to push the projectile body all the way out the barrel of the gun providing consistent pressure the whole way. The proximate end of the projectile body could include an aperture for retaining a base plug which in turn could house an ejection charge that is disposed in proximity to an ignition delay element. Such ejection charge could be used to push a further mission payload out of the projectile after an appropriate time delay. The base plug could secure a primer a propellant cup and a propellant charge such as an M9 propellant charge within the cartridge case. At least one vent could connect the propellant cup to the low pressure chamber. While the invention is described here in terms of breaching reinforced concrete walls this ammunition is also capable of breaching light armor targets bunkers could be used in munitions for urban terrain warfare and might also be used for antipersonnel purposes.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an ammunition round that may be used to defeat hardened targets and 

It is a further object of the present invention to provide ammunition which may be used to breach concrete and masonry walls and 

It is a still further objective of the present invention to provide ammunition which may be used to breach at least eight inch thick hardened steel double reinforced concrete wall targets in a frontal strike.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention and in light of the following drawing s . It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the FIGURE S may not be in exact proportion and are shown here for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

