---

title: Photo-patterned pre-tilt liquid crystal cells, lenses and methods
abstract: Liquid crystal cells and lenses having a variable resulting pre-tilt across two or more areas of the cell, and in particular, cells and lenses are provided wherein a resulting pre-tilt is varied across the cell according to any desired birefringence profile that can be utilized in liquid crystalline optical elements and liquid crystal displays. Methods of fabrication of the liquid crystal cells with variable resulting pre-tilt are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08654281&OS=08654281&RS=08654281
owner: Kent State University
number: 08654281
owner_city: Kent
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100902
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 275 962 filed on Sep. 4 2009 herein fully incorporated by reference.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in the inventions and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by terms of Contract Number FA 7014 07 C 0013 awarded by the U.S. Air Force.

The present invention relates to liquid crystal cells and lenses having a variable pre tilt across two or more areas of the cell and in particular cells and lenses are provided wherein a resulting pre tilt is varied across the cell according to any desired birefringence profile and can be utilized in liquid crystalline optical elements and liquid crystal displays. Methods of fabrication of the liquid crystal cells and lenses with variable resulting pre tilt are disclosed.

Electro optical lenses that utilize birefringent liquid crystal to alter their optical power are well known. They have the inherent advantage over conventional glass or plastic optical lenses of being able to switch their optical power by the application of an electric field. One drawback of many liquid crystal electro optic lens designs is that a large number of lithographically etched transparent electrodes are often required to create the desired phase profile.

One basic structure of electro optic liquid crystal lenses is that of a thin layer of liquid crystal sandwiched between two transparent substrates. Onto the inner surfaces of each substrate a transparent metallic electrode structure is formed. An alignment layer is formed on top of the electrode layers to establish a specific orientation i.e. pre tilt of the liquid crystal molecules when there is no electric field present. An electric field is established across the liquid crystal layer when voltage is applied to one electrode layer and an electric potential is created between the electrodes. If the electrode structure is patterned a spatially varying voltage can be applied to the electrodes and a gradient in the field is created that gives rise to a gradient in the index of refraction of the liquid crystal layer. With proper design of the electrode structure and the applied voltages an electro optic lens can be fabricated. Electro optic converging lenses can be made with large retardance in the lens center and falling off radially. Conversely a diverging electro optic lens has maximum retardance at the perimeter and minimum at the center.

Several references disclose methods of pre tilt and head on birefringence control and various optical devices that utilizes the methods see for example R. A. Kikmet and C. de Witz Gel Layers For Inducing Adjustable Pre tilt Angles In Liquid Crystal Systems J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 20 No. 3 1991 pp. 1265 1269 S. Masuda T. Nose and S. Sato Optical Properties of a UV Cured Liquid Crystal Microlens Array Applied Optics Vol. 37 No. 11 1998 pp. 2067 2073 H. Ren and S. T. Wu Tunable Electronic Lens Using a Gradient Polymer Network Liquid Crystal Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol. 82 No. 1 2003 pp. 22 24 and H. Ren Y. H. Fan S. Gauza and S. T. Wu Turnable Microlens Array Using Polymer Network Liquid Crystal Opt. Commun. Vol. 230 2004 pp. 267 271 and R. A. Kikmet and C. de Witz Gel Layers For Inducing Adjustable Pre tilt Angles In Liquid Crystal Systems J. Appl. Phys. Vol. 20 No. 3 1991 pp. 1265 1269.

It is an object of the present invention to provide the liquid crystal based devices namely cells and lenses having a specified resulting pre tilt of the liquid crystal layer directly adjacent to the alignment layer of the substrate.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a liquid crystal cell or lens having a gradient in the average index of refraction or head on optical retardation in at least two or more areas of the cell or lens.

Another object of the present invention is to provide liquid crystal cells and lenses having a pre tilt angle that can vary over the area of the lens. The pre tilt angle can be varied by applying an electric field to the cells or lenses during the fabrication process that involves polymerization of one of the material components when the appropriate voltage is applied across the cell. As a result the cells or lenses contain a phase map for altering the optical path difference OPD of an incoming wave.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a liquid crystal cell with a low concentration of curable monomer preferably light curable monomer that allows for fabrication of a polymer network which provides low light scattering comparable to a pure liquid crystal cell.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a liquid crystal cell having a localized polymer network near the cell substrate that provides the pre tilt angle of the liquid crystal molecules in the polymerized layers near the cell substrate.

Another object of the invention is to provide a method for controlling the tilt angle of liquid crystalline molecules in the vicinity of a substrate by applying a voltage across the cell and polymerizing a monomer preferably utilizing light induced polymerization.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a liquid crystal cell or lens with a specified spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle of the liquid crystal near the cell substrate made possible by providing a multiple step process of monomer polymerization of the cell by irradiating portions of the cell using two or more different voltages resulting in the formation of structures with pre tilt angles that vary across the cell.

Still a further object of the present invention is to provide the method for preparing cells and cells having a specified spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle near the substrates utilizing a multiple step process of monomer polymerization within the cell wherein the cell is irradiated through one or more of a movable narrow slit aperture or special light modulator.

In one aspect of the present invention a liquid crystal device is disclosed comprising at least two substantially transparent substrates and an electro active liquid crystal material layer located between the substrates and comprising a liquid crystal material and a polymer network wherein the polymer network is derived from monomers present in an amount of about 0.01 to about 2 parts per 100 parts by weight of the liquid crystal material and wherein the device has a patterned optically transmissive area with at least a first area and a second area present adjacent at least one of the substrates and the liquid crystals in the two areas have different resulting pre tilt angles.

In a further aspect of the present invention a method for fabricating an electro optic device is disclosed comprising the steps of obtaining a liquid crystal cell comprising a first substrate a second substrate a liquid crystal material layer located between the substrates and comprising liquid crystal material and a plurality of polymerizable monomers in an amount from about 0.01 to about 2 parts per 100 parts by weight of the liquid crystal material and an electrode layer operatively connected to each substrate and applying first a voltage to the cell and simultaneously polymerizing at least two monomers in a first area of the cell to form a polymer network causing the liquid crystal material in the first area to have a different resulting pre tilt angle when compared to at least a second area of the cell.

Liquid crystal cells and lenses of the present invention are provided having a variable resulting pre tilt angle and a gradient of head on optical retardation. Utilized herein the pre tilt angle of the liquid crystal refers to the number of degrees that the liquid crystal molecules in the cell adjacent to the substrate deviate from the plane of the substrate when no electric field is present or applied to the cell. The term resulting pre tilt angle means the pre tilt angle of the liquid crystal material after the polymer network has been formed. The methods of the present invention provide liquid crystal cells and lenses having a variable pre tilt across two or more areas of the cell. In one embodiment the methods of the present invention allow for manufacturing of cells and lenses with a substantially continuous change of angle of inclination for the liquid crystal molecules adjacent to the liquid crystal cell substrates the liquid crystal pre tilt angle or a pre tilt. According to the methods of the invention the magnitude of the resulting pre tilt angle can be continuously varied from about 1 to about 90 as a function of applied voltage during a polymerization process of monomers present in a composition located within the cell including the liquid crystal molecules. The liquid crystal pre tilt angles can also be controlled locally over a small area of the cell.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a cross sectional view of one embodiment of an electro optical device of the present invention generally a cell or lens. Device includes a pair of substrates preferably planar and disposed parallel to each other. The substrates are maintained at a desired distance for example by spacer in a gasket in one embodiment as illustrated in . In one embodiment the spacer layer has a thickness between about 5 and about 100 microns. Electrode layer is present on a lower substrate and an electrode layer is present on the upper substrate . An alignment layer is present on electrode layers and and a liquid crystal layer is present between the substrates and in contact with alignment layers . As utilized herein the term layer does not require a uniform thickness and imperfections or uneven thicknesses can be present so long as the layer performs its intended purpose.

Substrates provide a desired optical transmission through at least one area of the device and preferably are transparent or substantially transparent. Substrates can be planar or can be curved. Various materials can be utilized as known in the art such as glass quartz or a polymer or any combination thereof. The substrates are preferably non birefringent or aligned or compensated to minimize the effects of birefringence.

The conductive electrode layers can be deposited on a substrate by any known method. The electrode layer material can be any inorganic substantially transparent conductive material. Examples of suitable materials include metal oxides such as indium oxide tin oxide and indium tin oxide and preferably indium tin oxide. In one embodiment thickness of the conductive electrode layer is generally about 100 to 2 000 angstroms. The electrode layer must be sufficiently thick to provide desired conductivity. Resistivity of each of the conductive electrode layers can vary and in one embodiment is generally from about 10 to about 1 000 ohms sq and is preferably from about 10 to about 200 or 300 ohms sq.

The alignment layer is used to induce a particular directional orientation of the liquid crystal molecules before the formation of the polymer layers. Various materials suitable for use as alignment layers are known in the art including but not limited to polyimide and polyvinyl alcohol. The thickness of the alignment layer should be sufficient to impart the desired directional orientation to the liquid crystal material. Thickness of the alignment layer in one embodiment is generally from about 100 to about 1 000 angstroms. As known in the art the alignment layer is treated by rubbing in some embodiments to impart a substantially homogeneous molecular orientation to the liquid crystal material prior to an electrical field being applied to the material. In one embodiment the alignment layer is rubbed such as with a velvet fabric by hand by using a rotating drum a moving platform or other mechanical rubbing technique for example. In one embodiment the alignment layer is spin coated subsequently dried and cured as known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Generally any liquid crystal material that has an orientational order that can be controlled in the presence of an electric field can be utilized including any nematic smectic or cholesteric phase forming liquid crystals or polymer containing liquid crystals such as polymer liquid crystals polymer dispersed liquid crystals or polymer stabilized liquid crystals. Nematic liquid crystals are preferred in one embodiment. Desirable characteristics possessed by suitable liquid crystal materials include the ability to align the liquid crystal without much difficulty rapid switching time and a low voltage threshold. Non limiting examples of liquid crystals that can be used in the present invention include 4 n pentyl 4 cyanobiphenyl 5CB MLC 6080 available in Merck Cambridge Mass. and LC 18349 also available from Merck or any other nematic LC materials designed for liquid crystalline devices.

As indicated herein the liquid crystal layer also includes a polymer network formed from polymerizable monomers preferably light or UV polymerizable monomers. Suitable monomers include generally any monomer polymerizable in the presence of the liquid crystal material utilized and generally an initiator i.e. a photoinitiator in the case of a light or UV curable monomer. The UV reaction is a polymerization reaction wherein crosslinking between the polymer chains is also possible. Examples of suitable polymerizable monomers include but are not limited to reactive mesogens for example having polymerizable functional groups including but not limited to acrylate groups. Polymerizable monomers are available from EM Industries as the RM product line for example RM 82 RM 84 and RM157. An example of a suitable monomer is RM 84 BAB available from EM Industries a subsidiary of Merck. The polymerizable monomers and or polymerized cured monomers are present in the liquid crystal layer in an amount generally from about 0.01 to about 2.0 parts desirably from about 0.1 to about 1 part and preferably from about 0.25 to about 0.75 part by weight based on 100 total parts by weight of the liquid crystal material.

Any suitable initiator known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized in the present invention. For example in one embodiment a photoinitiator such as Irgacure 651 available from Ciba is utilized. The amount of initiator utilized is sufficient to provide the desired level of polymerization of the monomer and can vary depending upon the initiator and or monomer selected. In one embodiment the amount of initiator ranges generally from about 1 to about 5 parts and preferably from about 2 to about 3 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the polymerizable i.e. curable monomer such as RM 84.

Once the device is assembled preferably with the alignment layer in anti parallel alignment of the rub directions the cells are filled with a liquid crystal material layer such as through a port in the spacer layer generally a sealing gasket. After the cells are filled with the liquid crystal material mixture electrodes are attached to the electrode layers to allow voltage application across the device .

Utilizing the methods of the present invention cells with a pre tilt that is varied across two or more areas i.e. at least a first area and a second area or three or more areas a first second and third area etc of the cell can be manufactured. The methods of the present invention allow for fabrication of liquid crystal cells with any custom design OPD profile and enable manufacturing of various liquid crystalline optical elements as well as further improvement of optical properties of liquid crystal displays. The liquid crystal material layer composition allows for the formation of a low density polymer network near the cell substrates that stabilizes the liquid crystal orientation near the cell substrates. The indirect evidence in some embodiments is believed to point to the localization of the polymer network within one micron or less from the substrate in the fact that the cells after polymerization demonstrate the electro optical properties substantially the same as the regular planar LC cells with high pre tilt angles. By fitting the transmission vs. angle curves in the crystal rotation method for some embodiments it has been roughly estimated that the thickness of the polymer layer is from several microns to a fraction of a micron. The method allows for fabrication of liquid crystal cells and devices that demonstrate very low light scattering which is comparable to liquid crystal cells without a polymer network such as through a visual comparison.

It has been found that by applying a voltage across the liquid crystal cell before starting the final polymerization process the light scattering in the device is significantly reduced. After an optional initial voltage application step a final polymerization process takes place at a pre determined voltage level using a light source such as visible light and or an ultra violet light source. Not only UV light can be used because there are photoinitiators that react to various wavelengths of light including visible.

When the polymerization voltage is applied across the liquid crystal cell the permanent and induced dipoles of liquid crystal molecules experience a dielectric torque and tend to align along the electric field. The liquid crystal director which indicates the prevailing orientation of the long molecular axes is now subject to elastic and electric torques that produce an equilibrium director distribution within the cell. As a result the liquid crystal molecules near the substrate overcome a continuous splay. The splay director configuration is then fixed in place as a result of the formation of the polymer network near the substrates. The average inclination angle for the liquid crystal molecules near the substrates then exceeds the original pre tilt angle and is determined by polymerization voltage the higher the polymerization voltage the higher the average inclination angle. Since the polymer network is formed only in the vicinity of the cell substrates holding the liquid crystal molecules at higher average inclination angle via the formation of the polymer network is equivalent to changing the original pre tilt angle of the cell.

Thus when all applied voltages are removed we end up with a cell that features a permanent pre tilt angle that is higher than the original pre tilt angle prior to polymerization at the desired voltage. As a result the head on optical retardation of the finished cell depends on the applied voltage and the alignment of the liquid crystal molecules during the polymerization process. The fabricated polymer network keeps the liquid crystal molecules at high and controllable angles near the cell substrates and at the same time allows for molecular re orientation in the bulk if an external electric field is applied. Contrary to the present technology this method provides for fabrication of liquid crystal optical elements with very low light scattering comparable to the light scattering from liquid crystal cells without a polymer network.

Since the cells obtained as a result of application of this method show optical properties similar to cells with high pre tilt angles the developed technique allows fabrication of the liquid crystal cells with any desirable pre tilt angle in the range of 1 to 90 with respect to the cell substrate. Because the formation of the polymer network occurs only at the areas that are under the light irradiation cells that have a different head on optical retardation in different regions of the cell can be created thus gradients in the optical retardation can be established in the cell.

The developed technique thereby allows a continuous and controllable change in the cell s pre tilt and hence the head on birefringence and thus gives a new method of fabrication of liquid crystalline optical elements with large apertures and big working areas. Thus lenses with extremely aspheric or irregular phase patterns can be constructed without grinding free forming or the use of other complex methods of lens fabrication. Moreover the complex step of photo lithography to form intricate electrode structures is eliminated. The developed technique can be also used in other liquid crystalline devices where high pre tilts are required for the optimum performance for example twisted TN and super twisted STN nematic and cholesteric displays and switches and liquid crystal display modes that utilize bend Pi cell and vertical alignment modes.

Advantages of the present invention include the following points 1 the usage of low concentration of the polymerizable monomer for example UV curable monomer allows for fabrication of a polymer network which results in very low light scattering comparable to the pure liquid crystal 2 localization of the polymer network near the cell substrate wall allows for control of the tilt angle of the liquid crystal molecules in the polymerized layers located in the thin layer near the substrates 3 control of the tilt angle of the liquid crystalline molecules in the vicinity of the substrates is achieved by voltage application across the cell during the light induced polymerization this allows for fabrication of cells with a specified average tilt of the optic axis the effect is equivalent to changing a pre tilt angle in the original cell 4 fabrication of cells or devices with a specified spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle near the substrates becomes possible through a multiple step tilt angle setting and polymerization the cell is irradiated through a movable narrow slit or an aperture when a voltage is applied to the cell the applied voltage is changed as the previously unexposed areas of the cell are subjected to light irradiation resulting in the formation of the structures with pre tilt angles that vary across the cell or device the achieved spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle allows or provides a substantially continuous change in head on optical retardation across the cell or device and 5 fabrication of the cells or devices with specified spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle near the substrates becomes possible through a multiple step process of polymerization a high voltage is applied to the cell to cause the migration of the monomer then a low voltage is applied to the cell and specific designated regions or areas of the cell are irradiated using a spatial light modulator light source to polymerize in those regions the applied voltage is changed and previously unexposed areas of the cell are subjected to light irradiation resulting in the formation of the structures with pre tilt angles that vary across the cell the achieved spatial distribution of the molecular pre tilt angle allows continuous change in head on optical retardation across the cell.

In summary the technique can be used to produce lenses or devices with spherical power cylindrical power spherical aberration prism or any arbitrary non planar wavefront limited only by the resolution that can be achieved in the photo patterning process.

The following steps can be utilized to form a desired polymer network. In a first step an initial pre polymerization voltage is applied across the cell for a period of time. The voltage range is generally from about 0 to break down voltage which is individual to each cell and material and usually higher then 100 V per 20 microns of cell thickness desirably from about 10 V to about 100 V and preferably is about 100 volts. The higher the voltage the more effective separation of the mixture and the shorter the pre polymerization stage. The time of the initial voltage application ranges generally from about 1 second to about 1 minute and preferably is about 3 seconds. It is believed the application of the high voltage initiates movement of the polymerizable monomer closer to the substrate. The pre polymerization application of voltage may be omitted. However it is preferred as it provides for lower light scattering in the finished cell and helps to localize the polymer network closer to the cell substrate. In some embodiments it is advantageous to simultaneously apply low intensity UV radiation or radiation from another light source to the cell during this pre polymerization monomer migration step to achieve some limited small chain polymerization of the monomer. This step can be performed over the entire area of the cell prior to polymerization or alternatively it may be performed over a small area the area such as been cured and the process repeated over other areas until the desired area of the lens is polymerized.

To form the polymer network voltage across the cell is changed if applied in a pre polymerization step. Voltage is applied during each individual polymerization step independently ranges generally from about 0 V to break down voltage and depends on liquid crystal material concentration of monomer and cell thickness. In one embodiment the cell is irradiated with a radiation source such as visible light or UV light for example a high intensity UV light ranging from about 1 to about 50 mW cmin both UVA and UVB spectra. The radiation can be initiated on one or both sides of the cell preferably through a mask including a slit or a diaphragm in a variable size. UV curing spot lamps coupled with an optical slit are utilized in some embodiments. The lamp emits in UVA and UVB diapasons. In this step the UV light induced crosslinking of the monomer can occur both in the vicinity of the electrodes and in the bulk of the cell.

The applied voltage is then dropped to zero and the radiation or light source such as UV light is turned off. The cell and or light source is moved so that another portion of the cell can be subjected to the polymerization process if desired.

As a result of the process the irradiated areas possess lower head on optical retardation when compared to portions of the cell that were not exposed to a radiation source such as ultraviolet light.

Examples of various applications of the method and devices in the application are presented hereinbelow.

Photo polymerization induced phase separation in liquid crystal mixtures containing photo reactive monomers was studied extensively in their application to polymer dispersed liquid crystals where the micron size LC droplets formed in the polymer matrix first reported by W. Doane N. A Vaz B. G. Wu and S. Zumer Appl. Phys. Lett. 48 p. 269 1986 . In the majority of cases the polymer network occurs in the bulk however in certain cases localization of the polymer at various cell sites was observed. Motion of the monomer toward the substrates was observed previously for example by M. Y. Jin T. H. Lee J W. Jung and J. H. Kim Surface effects on polymerization induced anisotropic phase separation in liquid crystal and polymer composites Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 193510 2007 and used by S. G. Kim S. M. Kim Y. S. Kim H. K. Lee S. H. Lee G. D. Lee J. J. Lyu and K. H. Kin Stabilization of the liquid crystal director in the patterned vertical alignment mode through formation of pre tilt angle by reactive mesogen Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 261910 2007 T. J. Chen and K. L. Chu Pre tilt angle control for single cell gap transflective liquid crystal cells Appl. Phys. Lett. 92 091102 2008 to stabilize the LC molecular orientation near the substrates. Authors observed the accumulation of the polymer predominantly near the substrate that faced the UV source and lesser accumulation near the opposite surface. The experimental results were accompanied by modeling. Modeling was based on Flory Huggins theory. Surface effects were accounted for by introducing the potential energy of interaction of each molecular species with the surface which decays exponentially as a function of distance from the surface. Relative polymerization and UV absorption length were adjusted according to experimental data. Modeling has shown that the photo polymerization occurs in the vicinity of the substrate facing the UV light source. However if the alignment surface prefers prepolymer to LC molecules two processes may compete and the polymer may accumulate at both substrates.

Other authors studied the motion of polymer particles in liquid crystal in the presence of the electric field applied across the cell. In two separate works by Y. Kim J. Francl B. Taheri and J. West A method for the formation of polymer walls in liquid crystal polymer mixtures Appl. Phys. Lett. 72 18 2253 2255 198 and by R. Ren S. T. Wu and Y. H. Lin In situ observation of fringing field induced phase separation in a liquid crystal monomer mixture Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 117801 2008 relatively large polymer particles were segregated at the regions with weaker electric fields whereas liquid crystal was pushed toward the regions with strong electric field. Because the dielectric constant of the liquid crystal is higher than for the photoreactive monomer they suggested that a diaphoretic force acting on polarized dielectric particles in electric field gradients is responsible for the phase separation. Yet another mechanism of phase separation was proposed by D. Voloschenko O. Pishnyak S. Shiyanovskii and O. Lavrentovich Effect of director distortion on morphologies of phase separation in liquid crystal Phys. Rev. E 65 060701 R who demonstrated that the LC director field can influence the phase separation regions with strongest distortions attract small polymer particles.

As evident from this short review there are several competing micro and macro processes that drive the phase separation and lead to the resultant polymer distribution within the liquid crystal cell. At the stage when the monomer is uniformly dispersed in liquid crystal mixing of the two species of molecules is favored over the phase separation however as polymerization process progresses the longer polymer chains become immiscible with polymer. In the phenomenological mean field Flory Higgins theory which often used to describe phase separation in polymer melts there are two entropy terms that favor mixing of low molecular weight components and the enthalpy term that takes into account interaction between molecules of the same species and molecules of different species. This accounts for the fact that mixing of the molecules with different number of chains in our case low molecular weight liquid crystal and long polymer chains is much harder than of the molecules with comparable degrees of polymerization. As polymerization progresses the entropy of mixing of the polymer component decreases due to the fact that the monomers become connected into the chain and thus cannot mix freely in the solution. From these considerations one can understand why phase separation may occur predominantly near the cell substrate facing the UV light source. As the light intensity falls exponentially with the cell thickness due to light absorption and scattering polymerization mostly occurs in the areas closer to the cell surface that faces the UV light source. Polymerization promotes separation of the monomer and the formation of the polymer network near the cell substrate. Wetting of the polyimide alignment layer by polymer facilitates collection of it not only at the surface facing the UV light source but also at the opposite surface which is observed in our experiments. This facilitates the formation of stable and uniformly aligned liquid crystalline planar structures with various pre tilt angles that are fixed at both substrates. Since we used very low concentration of photo polymerizable monomer the formation of a continuous polymer film or polymer droplets was not observed. Thus macroscopic mechanisms such as fringe field induced phase separation proposed by R. Ren S. T. Wu and Y. H. Lin or accumulation of polymer particles in the regions with the strongest director distortions observed by O. D. Lavrentovich s group cannot be applied in our case. However the Flory Higgins theory can be further modified taking into account an orientational ordering of liquid crystals see for example V. Popa Nita and S. Kralj Random anisotropy nematic model Nematic non nematic mixture Phys. Rev. E 73 041705 2006 and A. Matsuyama and R. Hirashima Phase separation in liquid crystal colloid mixtures J. of. Chem. Phys. 128 044907 2008 . These works show that the orientational ordering of liquid crystal increases the phase separation tendency. In the well studied guest host effect T. J. Scheffer Vol. 309 No. 1507 pp. 189 201 non liquid crystalline molecules added to liquid crystal in small amounts align preferably along the director. Similar effect was observed by us when we observed the residual birefringence consistent with the alignment of polymer chains in the polymerized cells that were heated above the nematic isotropic phase transition temperature.

In this example fabrication of uniform samples with a specified head on optical retardation is shown which is equivalent to increasing a pre tilt angle. The liquid crystal cell is fabricated according to the cell fabrication procedure described. The cells have cell gaps of about d 20 21 m. In this example PI 2555 was used as an alignment layer. The cells were filled with a mixture of MLC 6080 by EM Industries about 0.5 BAB monomer and about 0.005 of Irgacure by weight . The MLC 6080 material has the following characteristics 

The cells were irradiated with UV light from one cell side for about 30 minutes at the following power densities 0.007 W cmin UVA UVB combined . AC voltage of 2 10 20 30 50 and 100 V rms of 200 Hz were applied across the cells during the UV light induced polymerization. After polymerization was complete the cells demonstrated different head on optical birefringence. The resultant head on optical retardation was estimated by measuring the cell transmission as a function of the applied voltage a T V curve . In order to measure the T V curve the cell was placed between two crossed polarizers with rub directions making a 45 angle with respect to the transmission axes of the polarizers. Light from a white LED equipped with an interference filter that allowed the transmission of light with 546 nm was incident on the system. The transmitted light was measured with a photodiode connected to a Keithley Instruments multimeter. The set up was automatically controlled by a personal computer. The T V curves at the normal incidence of the laser beam were measured. Peaks on the curves correspond to maximum cell transmission when an optical retardation nd due to the liquid crystal cell is equal to an integer number of wavelength nd n n 1 2 3 . . . . Here n n n where nis the refractive index for the ordinary wave normal nis the refractive index for the extra ordinary wave normal nvaries according to the direction of propagation inside the liquid crystal between the limits nand nand is given by n nn square root over nsin ncos where is the angle between the optic axis and the direction of propagation of the e wave normal inside the crystal.

By counting the number of peaks on the T V curves the cell s head on optical retardation HOR given by

After polymerization is complete the resultant cell can be switched to even lower HOR and can be used in various liquid crystalline devices such as displays shutters switches and windows in the same manner as high pre tilt liquid crystal devices.

The following is an explanation of the physical processes that took place during UV light polymerization. When voltage is applied during polymerization it causes movement of monomer closer to the cell substrates. Polymerization and cross linking of the BAB monomer provided for the formation of a polymer network that is localized near the cell substrates. The result was the formation of the polymer network that fixes the liquid crystal director near the substrates. When voltage Vabove the Friedericksz s transition threshold is applied across a LC cell the director configuration is a result of the balance of the elastic and dielectric torques and is subject to strong boundary conditions. shows the equilibrium director configuration at different applied voltages in a planar cell filled with MLC 6080. The calculations of the equilibrium director configuration were based on the Frank Oseen theory. The Euler Lagrange formalism was used to obtain the equations of motion. We used standard relaxation techniques to solve them numerically. Modeling was performed by using Twist Cell Optics software Twist Cell Optics 7.2 software developed at Liquid Crystal Institute Kent State University Kent Ohio USA . As seen from the director distribution in the vicinity of the cell substrates overcame a continuous splay. The range of the splay angles for the given thickness of the LC layer in the vicinity of the boundary depends on voltage V. For example when V 2V the molecular tilt angle changes in the range from 3.5 the pre tilt angle to about 15 within the thickness of 1 m whereas at V 50V the director configuration changes from the planar to homeotropic orientation within the same 1 m thick sub layer . We argue that as a result of the application of our polymerization technique this director configuration was frozen in place in the thin layer in the vicinity of the cell substrates. After polymerization was complete the near substrate regions provided for the anchoring of the LC molecules in the bulk. The average inclination angle for the LC director in the bulk of the cell was determined by the molecular inclination angle at the boundary of the polymerized layer making the director configuration equivalent to one for a planar cell with a high . When voltage across the cell was decreased to zero the near substrate regions that feature high molecular tilt provided for anchoring of the liquid crystal molecules in the bulk effectively providing the formation of liquid crystal structures that were equivalent to planar cells with high pre tilt angles. Thus the developed method allowed for a continuous change of a pre tilt angle achieved by application of appropriate voltage during polymerization.

In this example uniform samples with a specified pre tilt angle were fabricated by building symmetric liquid crystal structures. This was achieved by illuminating the liquid crystal cells from two cell sides.

Liquid crystal cells were fabricated according to the procedure described earlier. The cells had a gap of d 20 21 m and utilized KPI from IDW Company as an alignment layer. The cells were filled with mixtures of MLC 18349 from EM Industries and 0.3 0.5 and 0.7 BAB monomer by weight . The MLC 18349 has n n n 0.26 and demonstrated a pre tilt angle of about 3 on KPI. The cells were irradiated for about 20 minutes from two cell sides using two identical UV lamps facing each other each having a UV power density of about 0.007 W cmat each cell side. Irradiation from two cell sides was achieved by placing the UV lamps head to head on opposite cell sides. Resultant HOR after the UV curing was estimated according to the method described in Example 1. shows measured HOR as a function of voltage applied during polymerization for three types of cells filled with mixtures having 0.3 0.5 and 0.7 of BAB respectively. As expected the HOR depends on concentration of the BAB monomer in the mixture cells filled with the mixture having low concentration of BAB require high voltages applied during polymerization to achieve the same level of the HOR. For example cells with 0.3 of BAB required about 80 V applied during polymerization to achieve the HOR of about 1000 nm while the cells filled with 0.5 and 0.7 of BAB required only about 22 V and 10 V respectively. However increasing the BAB concentration higher than about 1 or 2 is not recommended because the cells with high BAB concentration showed relatively high light scattering.

Cells described in Examples 1 and 2 maintained the developed HOR and thus the high pre tilt angle for more than a year starting from the first experiments and showed the same stable alignment of liquid crystal molecules for a much longer time.

In this example the director distribution was examined in the cells with anti parallel rub ECB cells that had cell gaps of d 20.2 0.2 m measured when the cells were empty . The cells were filled with a mixture of MLC 6080 and 0.5 BAB monomer by weight .

The alignment layer used for fabrication of these cells was PI 2555 from DuPont. The cells were exposed to UV light by using two identical UV lamps see description of the UV light source above . The cells were irradiated from two sides with two light sources facing each other. Optical power at the irradiated surfaces was 15 mW cm. Before the UV curing process started high voltage of about 100V AC frequency 1 kHz was applied across the cell for 3 10 minutes during a pre polymerization step. The application of high voltage before curing induced the movement of the monomer closer to the substrates. After high voltage application a process of polymerization was initiated at the lower voltage. The cells were polymerized at various voltages ranging from 10 to 100 V. The cells were UV polymerized for about 30 minutes at a specified voltage.

In the data analysis it was assumed that cells which are irradiated from both sides feature a symmetric director distribution after curing and thus had the same pre tilt angles at both substrates.

The following are the results of measurements and modeling that provided the numerical values of pre tilt angles achieved as a result of voltage application during UV light irradiation.

In order to estimate the pre tilt angle for irradiated cells the transmission versus incidence angle curves were measured by using a standard crystal rotation method see . We used light of a He Ne ion laser 630 nm in the measurements. According to this method two crossed polarizers were kept stationary with the transmission axes at 45 with respect to horizontal. A liquid crystal cell was rotated around its axis which changes the incidence angle of the testing beam. The resultant transmission through the system depends on a phase shift between the ordinary and extraordinary waves as they propagate at various incidence angles in the sample. These curves were measured and analyzed for two different sample orientations with the rub directions along horizontal and along vertical.

Measured curves were compared with the results of modeling. The optical retardation for a light beam passing through the cell at the angle of incidence i was expressed by 2 d f i where d was the thickness of the LC layer and f i was a function of the pre tilt angle and the angle of incidence i. With the configuration of the transmittance became T i sin 2 . Since the Snell s law was applicable for both ordinary o and for extraordinary e wave normal the function f i could be calculated analytically. The refractive index for the e wave normal varies according to the direction of propagation inside the liquid crystal between the limits nand n. If was the angle between the optic axis and the direction of propagation of the e wave normal inside the crystal the refractive index nfor it was given by square root over sincos 

Path difference between e and o rays is given by n IJ JH n IK see . Phase function f i depends on the angle between the plane of incidence and the principal section containing the optic axis . In the case when the plane of incidence coincides with the principal section 0 and the optic axis and the refracted beams are on the same side with regard to the normal to the sample the phase function was given by 

In the case when the plane of incidence is perpendicular to the principal section 2 the phase function is given by 

Mathematica software was used to generate phase functions and transmission versus incidence angle curves for various director distributions. In the model phase functions were calculated for a multi layer structure with fixed a for each layer see . The number of layers as well as the angle inside each layer were adjusted to obtain the best fit of experimental curves. The overall thickness of the birefringent multi layered structure was also adjusted but within a small range from 19 to 19.5 microns. The refractive induces of MLC 6080 listed above were used in the modeling.

Pre tilt angle in the same cells was also estimated from transmission versus T V voltage curves that were measured as described in Example 1. Measured curves were compared with the modeled T V curves. Modeling was performed under the assumption that the director distribution in the cells after polymerization is uniform same as in planar cells with high pre tilt angles. In the modeling the main fitting parameter was the pre tilt angle whereas the cell thickness was adjusted only slightly within the range of 19.5 20 microns. Modeling was performed by using Twist Cell Optics software Twist Cell Optics 7.2 software developed at Liquid Crystal Institute Kent State University Kent Ohio USA . The calculations of the equilibrium director configuration were based on the Frank Oseen theory. The Euler Lagrange formalism was used to obtain the equations of motion. We used standard relaxation techniques to solve them numerically. Light propagation through a stack of optically anisotropic layers was performed by using Berreman s 4 4 matrix method D. W. Berreman J. Opt. Soc. Am. 62 502 1972 .

In this example how to fabricate a cell that has different pre tilt angles at different cell sites is described.

To fabricate a cell that has variable pre tilt across its surface a uniform 20 micron thick cell was filled with LC 13849 and 0.5 of the BAB monomer. Characteristic stripes that indicate areas of various HOR and hence pre tilt were achieved throughout following a step by step process. First the highest voltage was applied across the cell and the cell was irradiated from one side with the UV light incident through a narrow slit of about 1 mm. After polymerization was complete the applied voltage was decreased the cell was moved by about 1 mm with respect to the slit so that a previously unexposed area can be irradiated and the polymerization process was repeated. The procedure was repeated several times until the cell with spatially variable pre tilt was formed. Irradiation time for each consecutive step was about 3 minutes. The radiation power density at the cell site was about 0.015 W cm. shows a liquid crystal cell with variable pre tilt with its surface fabricated by using this method.

In this example it is shown how to fabricate a cell with a continuous change of pre tilt across the cell. In this example we used 20 m thick planar liquid crystalline cells filled with LC 18349 and 0.75 of the BAB monomer by weight .

The process starts with the formation of regions with low retardation at the outer edge of the cell as compared to a central area of the cell. This required high voltages being applied to the cell. With high voltages applied across the cell the cell s edge was irradiated from one cell side with UV light through a narrow slit with the width of s 0.8 mm. Time of UV radiation varied from 2 seconds to 5 seconds. UV power density was about 0.015 W cm. The cell was then moved by a small distance of x 10 m in a horizontal direction and at the same time the voltage across the cell was decreased. illustrates the irradiation process newly exposed areas have a width of x 10 m however a portion of previously exposed cell is still under the UV irradiation. The subsequent radiation of previously unexposed parts of the cell initiated formation of a polymer network in the stripe and the width of x under the decreased voltage. Since the UV lamp was working continuously there was an ongoing polarization process in the rest of the exposed area that took place at the lower voltage. The overall exposure time for a 10 mm wide area is about 3 minutes.

When the center of the cell was positioned in front of the slit the applied voltage was dropped to zero thus enabling formation of the stripe with the lowest pre tilt and maximum head on birefringence. As the cell is moved further the applied voltage increases step by step reaching its maximum at the opposite cell side. The applied voltage profile used is shown in . It was found that the liquid crystalline structure had been fixed in place during the first exposure for the time and corresponds to a voltage that is applied at the time of this first exposure. The subsequent exposure to UV light at lower voltages did not substantially change the liquid crystal distribution near the substrates but it only helped to complete the polymerization process. This allowed for almost continuous change of pre tilt across the cell.

In this example how to fabricate a cell that has variable pre tilt across the cell surface that shows very low light scattering was described. The cell was made from a 20 m thick planar liquid crystalline cell filled with MLC 6080 0.5 of the monomer by weight.

As evident from the experimental data presented in Example 3 the intermediate voltages of 15 40 V yield liquid crystalline structures that can be approximated having a relatively thick splay layer near the cell substrates. In order to have efficient pre tilt control the thickness of the polymerized layer must be much smaller that the cell gap and in most cases smaller than 1 micron. In order to fabricate the polymer stabilized LC cells that electro optically behave as planar cells with pre tilts within the range of 15 45 we modified our technique as follows.

To strengthen the network and localize it closer to the substrates we modified our method by applying a high pre polymerization voltage of 100V across the cell for several seconds then started polymerization at the desired Vfor 3 sec. However we did not fully polymerize the monomer but rather interrupted polymerization by turning off the UV light for a period of time 1 second during which the high voltage of 100V was applied again. After reducing the voltage to V the polymerization was resumed for another 3 seconds. The process was repeated for a desired number of cycles such as about 45 cycles which resulted in the fabrication of a uniform cell with a fully polymerized alignment sub layer. shows the measured and modeled T V curves for a 20 m thick cell filled with MLC6080 and 0.5 BAB monomer that was UV cured at a polymerization voltage of 20V and pre polymerization voltage of 100 V by alternating curing and pre polymerization steps the modeled curve corresponds to a uniformly aligned 19.5 m thick cell with a pre tilt angle of 18 .

This technique was applied for fabrication of a bi prism. The process started with a pre polymerization step where high voltage of 100 V was applied across the cell for about 15 seconds. After the pre polymerization step was completed the formation of the regions with high pre tilt followed and hence low HOR at the edge of the cell. This required high voltage of 100 V being applied to the liquid crystal cell. With the high voltage applied across the cell the cell s edge was exposed to UV light from one UV lamp positioned in front of the cell. The cell was irradiated with UV light through a slit with a width of s 0.8 mm. The time of UV exposure chosen was about 3 seconds for each step. The cell was then moved a small distance of x 10 m along horizontal the pre polymerization step was executed with UV off and the applied voltage was changed according to a voltage profile similar to the one shown in . When the center of the cell was positioned in front of the slit the applied voltage at its minimum was 10 V thus enabling the formation of the region with maximum head on birefringence and low pre tilt. As the cell is moved further the applied voltage increased step by step reaching its maximum at the opposite cell side. shows a photo of a cell fabricated by using the described technique. The used technique yielded a symmetric structure with head on birefringence changing continuously and rather symmetrically with respect to the center of the cell.

In this example how to fabricate a thick liquid crystal cell is described that had a continuously variable pre tilt across the cell surface and showed very low light scattering. The cell was made from a 30 m thick planar liquid crystalline cell filled with MLC 6080 0.5 of the BAB monomer by weight . The cell was fabricated according to a process described in Example 6 that includes a pre polymerization step.

The process of fabrication started with the formation of the regions with low head on retardation and high pre tilt at the edge of the cell. This required high voltage of 120 V applied to the liquid crystal cell. With the high voltage applied across the cell the cell s edge was exposed to UV light from one cell side. The UV power density was about 0.015 W cm. The cell was irradiated with UV light through a slit with a width of s 0.6 mm. Time of UV exposure was chosen to be about 3 seconds for each step. The cell was then moved a small distance of x 10 m along horizontal and at the same time the applied voltage was changed according to a linear voltage profile that was similar to the one shown in with the starting voltage of 120 V near the cell s edge and zero voltage at the center of the cell. The used technique yielded a symmetric structure with head on birefringence changing continuously and rather symmetrically with respect to the center of the cell. Head on optical retardation HOR of the cell changed from almost zero at the edge of the prism to about 5.5 m at the center which corresponds to the overall change of HOR of about 10 546 nm on a distance of about 4 mm. This was equivalent to the change of the pre tilt angle of almost 90 at the cell edge corresponding to homeotropic alignment to several degrees at the cell center corresponding to planar alignment .

General methods for creating variations and gradients in the head on optical retardation of a liquid crystal cell comprising a liquid crystal device through the use of UV polymerization to establish pre tilt in the cell are described herein. Specific methods for using this UV patterning technique to create essentially writable devices e.g. cells and lenses are disclosed herein. One of the major benefits of this technique is that the liquid crystal cell can be fully assembled structurally and the lens profile created afterward by the UV writing processes described below such that custom lenses including those with non symmetric phase profiles are easy to produce.

Disclosed hereinbelow are several methods of producing three exemplary lens profiles 1 an optical device with a continuous or substantially continuous change in retardation such as a prism 2 a device with circular symmetry such as a spherical or parabolic lens and 3 a device with no symmetry such as a lens with a coma or off centered bump.

In all three examples the liquid crystal cell was first fabricated according to the methods disclosed above or as known to those of ordinary skill in the art without the polymer network forming preferably UV curing step. The UV patterning was then implemented using variable low voltage to create the appropriate amount of retardation.

In this example fabrication of a cell with a continuous change of head on retardation across the cell is shown. In this example a 20 m thick planar liquid crystalline cell was filled with liquid crystal mixed with 0.75 of the monomer by weight . The process started with the formation of regions with low head on retardation at the edge of the cell. This required high voltage applied first to the entire cell optionally with low power density UV irradiation. With the voltage reduced the cell s edge was irradiated from one cell side with UV light through a narrow slit with a width of about 0.8 mm. The time of UV irradiation varied from 2 seconds to 5 seconds UV power density was about 0.015 W cm.

The cell was then moved a small distance of x 10 m in the horizontal direction and at the same time the applied voltage across the cell was decreased. illustrates the irradiation process. Newly exposed areas had a width of x 10 m however a portion of the previously exposed cell was still under the UV irradiation. The radiation of previously unexposed parts of the cell initiated the formation of a polymer network in the stripe of the width dx under the decreased voltage. Since the UV lamp was working continuously there was also an ongoing polymerization process in the rest of the exposed area that takes place at the lower voltage. This residual irradiation strengthened the already developed polymer network by further promoting polymerization.

A well developed polymer network was formed during the first 2 to 5 seconds and the further irradiation at the decreased voltage only strengthened the network without substantially changing the initially set molecular distribution. Thus the resultant head on retardation at the cell site with the width x was set during the first seconds of polymerization and the subsequent decrease in the applied voltage does not lead to its substantial change. The overall exposure time for a 10 m wide area was about 3 minutes.

When the center of the cell was positioned in front of the slit the applied voltage was dropped to zero thus enabling formation of the stripe with maximum head on birefringence. As the cells were moved further the applied voltage was increased step by step reaching its maximum at the opposite cell side. This method resulted in a single prismatic lens with maximum head on retardation at the cell edge irradiated at the minimum voltage.

In order to manufacture a bi prism a linear change is required in the optical path for the normal light incidence that is symmetric about the prism axis. To accomplish this a linear V shaped voltage profile was applied. The required voltage profile was estimated from the previously measured HOR versus polymerization voltage curves. If a cylindrical lens profile is required a non linear voltage profile symmetric about the cylinder axis is employed.

As mentioned herein the liquid crystalline structure had been fixed in place during a first exposure and approximately corresponds to a voltage that was applied at the time of this first exposure. The subsequent exposure to UV light at lower voltages does not substantially change the liquid crystal distribution near the substrates but only helps to complete the polymerization process. This allows for almost continuous change of the head on retardation across the cell.

This example describes how to fabricate a cell with variable HOR across the cell surface and shows very low light scattering.

Using a pre polymerization process cells were fabricated with variable optical path similar to a bi prism with high i.e. first head on optical retardation at the center of the cell and lower retardation to the left and right i.e. outwardly from the center. The bi prism was made utilizing the materials and procedures from Example 6. In order to manufacture a bi prism a substantially linear change of the optical path was required for the light incident normally to the cell as a function of the distance from the center of the cell. The required voltage profile was estimated from previous measurements of a head on birefringence of polymerized cells as a function of voltage applied during the polymerization process. Only the linear part of the characteristic curve was used.

The used technique described in Example 7 yields a symmetric liquid crystalline bi prism with head on birefringence changing continuously and rather symmetrically with respect to the center of the cell. Head on optical retardation HOR of the prism changed from almost zero at the edge of the prism to about 5.5 m at the center which corresponds to the overall change of HOR of about 10 546 nm on a distance of about 4 mm.

In a further example the total time of fabrication of a bi prism was decreased by increasing the UV power density and decreasing the time of each polarization step.

A bi prism from a 20 m thick planar liquid crystalline cell filled with MLC 6080 and 0.5 of the BAB monomer by weight was fabricated. This prism was fabricated according to the method described in Example 8 however the UV power density was increased to 0.035 W cm. The cell was irradiated with UV light from one cell side through a slit with a width of s 0.8 mm. The time of UV exposure was chosen to be about 1 second for each step that corresponds to the movement of the slit by 10 m. Thus the total time of exposure of the cell area with the width of about 0.8 mm was approximately 1.5 minutes. The resultant bi prism had optical characteristics that were similar to the ones for a bi prism described in Example 8. The latter one was manufactured by using a 0.8 mm wide slit UV power density of 0.015 W cm and irradiation time of 3 seconds for each step that is equivalent to the total time of exposure of the 0.7 mm wide area of about 3 minutes.

In a further example a lens is fabricated with variable optical path that is similar to a converging spherical focus device with high head on retardation at the center of the cell and lower retardation at the edge and azimuthal symmetry. The device was made from a 20 m thick planar liquid crystalline cell. The fabrication process of the device started with applications of high voltage 100 V across the entire cell for several seconds. After this pre polymerization stage is complete the applied voltage was decreased to the specified level and polymerization was started by irradiating a small area in the center of the cell with UV light through a round iris aperture with an adjustable diameter.

After polymerizing the central spot for several seconds the UV source was turned off and a linear stepper motor moved the cell such that the region targeted by the UV aperture was moved radially outward a very short distance from the center 10 um . The applied curing voltage was then altered to that corresponding to a lower head on retardation according to the desired retardation profile and the UV source turned on again. Another stepper motor rotated the cell in the plane of the cell about the axis through the initial center spot. Polymerization at this set voltage was continued for one full revolution of the cell. After this step was complete the cell was moved another increment radially outward the applied voltage was changed appropriately the UV source turned on and the cell rotated a complete turn again. This process was repeated until the entire device was polymerized as desired with a retardation gradient that fell off with increasing radius. shows a tunable liquid crystalline lens recorded by using the described technique. To visualize change in the cell s HOR we placed the lens between crossed polarizers and applied 0.2V across the cell. This lens was recorded in a 20 m cell filled with MLC6080 0.5 BAB. Pre polymerization voltage of 100 V was applied for 1 s before each consecutive ring of the lens was recorded. In order to record the ring the aperture s 0.8 mm was moved along the radius of the lens by 10 m steps. The ring was recorded for each consecutive position of the aperture at the polymerization voltage corresponding to a linear voltage profile which was similar to the one shown in . This lens was recorded with UV light power density 15 mW cm incident from one side of the LC cell.

A schematic of the movement is shown in which show a polymerized area and another area under polymerization. The area of the UV aperture can be varied depending on the resolution required in the refractive index gradient of the lens. Also the irradiation time of each area can be varied as required for polymerization. The angular rotation speed of the cell depends on the radial distance R from the center of the lens and is given by where the recording speed v is dependent on the irradiation time t and the aperture radius r 

Conversely the process of fabricating a diverging spherical lens started by creating nearly zero head on retardation at the center of the cell and increasing the retardance as the radius increased. Once the pre polymerization at 100 V is applied across the cell the cell s center is exposed to UV light with a power density of 0.01 W cmand the desired low voltage. After this step the device is recorded according to the procedure described above. As the cell is moved away from the center the applied voltage is altered to create a retardance profile that is increased in radial direction step by step until reaching the maximum for that lens power at the lens perimeter.

It should be noted that any radially varying lens with azimuthal symmetry can be fabricated with this procedure not just spherical lenses. For example it is possible to create a device that can create a spherical aberration correcting phase profile by controlling the applied voltage to establish the required radial refractive index gradient.

The concept for a further example is shown in . It is based on a projector that can provide an image in the wavelength of light which excites the photo initiator in the LC device. The basic idea is to first stimulate the monomer migration to the substrate surface by applying high voltage 100 V . Then the high voltage is turned off. The projector used to cure the monomer is one of several types of spatial light modulators that can deliver UV light to specific small areas pixels of the liquid crystal cell. A modified digital light processor DLP is such an instrument.

In the next step all cell pixels of a specific retardance are identified. The required low voltage to induce this retardance was applied to the electrodes and the UV projector was turned on such that only the identified targeted pixels are cured. Then the UV is turned off the applied voltage altered to create a different level of retardance and the UV projector turned on again programmed to only irradiate the new targeted pixels for curing. The process continues until all pixels have been cured with a specific level of head on retardance. It is apparent that any arbitrary phase map can be created quickly and efficiently in the cell to create a lens that can correct for any arbitrary distorted optical wavefront.

It should be emphasized that the projection printing process described above can be utilized to rapidly pattern any retardance profile in any type of device or prism and is not limited to those with asymmetric retardance profiles.

In addition it is important to note that the retardance profile phase map created in the cell by this process can be switched off by applying a sufficiently high voltage to the electrodes resulting in orientation of all liquid crystal molecules entirely in the direction of the electric field and a consequent homogeneous retardance across the entire cell.

In accordance with the patent statutes the best mode and preferred embodiment have been set forth the scope of the invention is not limited thereto but rather by the scope of the attached claims.

