---

title: Method and apparatus for providing haptic effects to a touch panel using magnetic devices
abstract: A touch panel assembly includes a touch-sensitive panel oriented along a plane. An actuator includes a frame having a first portion and a second portion at least partially oriented parallel to the plane. The first portion and the second portion are coupled together with a biasing element. A first magnetic device is coupled to the first portion. A second magnetic device is coupled to the second portion and positioned adjacent to the first magnetic device. The first magnetic device configured to move the first portion in a first direction parallel to the plane when energized by a current to cause a haptic effect to be felt on the touch sensitive panel. The biasing element applies a biasing force which causes the first portion to move in a second direction opposite to the first direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08502792&OS=08502792&RS=08502792
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 08502792
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101102
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 128 717 filed May 12 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 825 903 in the name of inventors George V. Anastas and Neil T. Olien and entitled Method And Apparatus For Providing Haptic Effects To A Touch Panel commonly owned herewith.

This invention was made with support under grant number DMI 0441692 from the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the field of computer interface systems. More particularly the present invention relates to a user interface device that provides haptic effect in response to user inputs.

As computer based systems appliances automated teller machines ATM point of sale terminals and the like become more prevalent the ease of use of the human machine interface is becoming more and more important. Such interfaces should operate intuitively and with little or no training so that they may be employed by virtually anyone. Many conventional user interface devices are available on the market and include the keyboard the mouse the joystick the touch screen and the touchpad. One of the most intuitive and interactive interface devices known is the touch panel which is also known as a touch screen a touch pad a touch screen display and so forth. A touch panel includes a touch sensitive input panel and a display device usually in a sandwich structure and provides a user with a machine interface through touching a panel sensitive to the user s touch and displaying content that the user touches. 

A touch panel can be a small planar rectangular pad which can be installed in or near a computer an automobile ATM machines and the like. A conventional touch sensitive component of a touch panel employs various types of touch sensing technology such as capacitive sensing pressure sensing and the like as known in the art to detect locations being pressed on the panel. For example a user contacts the touch sensitive panel commonly with a fingertip to emulate a button press and or moves his or her finger on the panel according to the graphics displayed behind the panel on the display device.

A problem associated with conventional touch panels is that they lack the capability of providing interactive tactile acknowledgements to indicate whether input has been accepted or rejected.

Accordingly there is a need for a touch panel to provide an interactive tactile feedback to indicate whether a user s selection has been accepted or rejected and or other appropriate or desirable effects.

In an aspect a touch panel assembly includes a touch sensitive panel oriented along a plane. An actuator includes a frame having a first portion and a second portion at least partially oriented parallel to the plane. The first portion and the second portion are coupled together with a biasing element. A first magnetic device is coupled to the first portion. A second magnetic device is coupled to the second portion and positioned adjacent to the first magnetic device. The first magnetic device configured to move the first portion in a first direction parallel to the plane when energized by a current to cause a haptic effect to be felt on the touch sensitive panel. The biasing element applies a biasing force which causes the first portion to move in a second direction opposite to the first direction.

In an aspect a method for providing haptic effects in a touch panel assembly the method comprises measuring a touching contact with a touch sensitive panel wherein the touch sensitive panel is oriented along a plane generating a first signal in response to the touching contact transmitting the first signal to a processor generating a haptic output current signal in response to said first signal wherein the haptic output current signal is transmitted to an actuator having a first portion coupled to the touch sensitive panel and a second portion arranged to adjacent to the first portion wherein the first portion and the second portion are oriented parallel to the plane the actuator having a first magnetic device coupled to the first portion and a second magnetic device coupled to the second portion wherein the haptic output current signal causes the first magnetic device and first portion to move in a first direction parallel to the plane to cause a haptic effect to be felt at the touch sensitive panel the actuator including a biasing element coupled to the first and second portions configured to apply a biasing force which causes the first portion to move in a second direction opposite to the first direction. Additional features and benefits of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description figures and claims set forth below.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein in the context of a method and apparatus for providing haptic effects to a touch panel. Those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the following detailed description of the present invention is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the present invention will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following detailed description to refer to the same or like parts.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the implementations described herein are shown and described. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with application and business related constraints and that these specific goals will vary from one implementation to another and from one developer to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The present invention relates to a user interface system that in one embodiment includes a display an actuator and a touch sensitive panel. A housing such as a case carrier base frame or the like may also be used to house the display actuator and touch sensitive panel. The actuator includes at least a pair of magnetic devices and at least one biasing element arranged to counter the gap closing attractive force of the magnetic devices for providing haptic effects.

Turning now to the figures illustrates an actuator for generating haptic effects in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Actuator includes two L shaped pole pieces first and second structural elements and and first and second biasing elements and . Pole pieces may be made of standard magnetic steels with high permeability or other suitable ferromagnetic materials such as soft magnetic materials with high magnetic permeability e.g. iron nickel magnetic alloys or sintered materials such as ferrite as are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They need not be made of the same material and they are further coupled to coils to form electromagnetic devices magnetic device . Coils which may be made of copper or other suitable electric conductors are coupled to one or more current sources for generating magnetic fields when current passes through the coils . In another embodiment one of the pole pieces need not include a coil as long as it is formed of a ferromagnetic material.

Actuator further includes structural elements and first and second biasing elements to form a frame for the actuator . It should be noted that structural elements and biasing elements can be manufactured out of a single piece of material such as metal or plastic. Alternatively structural elements and biasing elements may be manufactured independently. First structural element as shown in includes appertures which are used for coupling or fastening to a housing a display or a touch sensitive panel. Similarly structural element also contains appertures for similar coupling. Structural elements are made of reasonably rigid materials such as plastic aluminum and the like for providing physical support for the pole pieces . Biasing elements which may be springs flexure springs flexible blades flexible members elastomeric components foam components and the like are made of elastic or relatively flexible materials that can be compressed and or stretched within a predefined range. In one embodiment the biasing elements and structural elements are made of a plastic material with the biasing elements formed to be made thinner and hence more flexible than the structural elements.

Referring again to pole pieces and are coupled to structural elements and respectively. Pole piece is placed adjacent to pole piece with three magnetic gaps and between the pole pieces . The width of the gap situated between the main bodies of the pole pieces is in one embodiment in a range of about 1 to about 5 millimeters mm . The width of the gaps is in one embodiment in a range of about 0.25 to about 0.75 mm. Air pockets which can be of any shape provide space for pole pieces to move. They are not required however. Because gaps are much smaller than gap the attractive magnetic force at gaps dominates over any attractive force across gap .

In operation the biasing elements provide minimal force if there is no current passing through the coils and the actuator is accordingly in a relaxed state. Under this no power condition the actuator attains a first equilibrium position as shown for example in . When power is applied to coil s an input current passes through the coil s creating magnetic flux lines in the pole pieces and across gaps . This process acts to generate an attractive force or attractive magnetic force between the pole pieces when the coils are wound so that the electromagnetic effects do not cancel one another. The term attractive force and attractive magnetic force are used interchangeably herein. The attractive magnetic force acts against the biasing elements and pulls the pole pieces closer together at the gaps . In accordance with the embodiment shown in under the attractive magnetic force with structural element held fixed the pole piece moves in a direction from right to left as indicated by arrow toward the pole piece . Pole piece in this embodiment may be fastened or secured to structural element which may be further secured to a housing touch sensitive panel or display device. When one of the pole pieces is displaced enough distance within the gaps a second equilibrium position is reached as increasing spring force is applied in an opposite direction by biasing elements . When power is then reduced or removed the biasing elements force the pole pieces back to their original no power position also known as the first equilibrium position as described earlier.

It should be noted that the attractive force can be manipulated by varying an amount of current passing through the coils . Accordingly the acts of varying the magnitude duration and pulse repetition of current passing through the coils can be used to vary the level and quality of sensation provided by the haptic effect. It should be further noted that the haptic effect which is also known as tactile force feedback or haptic sensation can be a pulse vibration spatial texture weight or other physical properties sensible through feeling and touch. The term haptic effect and haptic sensation will be used interchangeably herein.

The present invention allows a user to manipulate the frequency of the movements between the pole pieces by adjusting the periodicity of applied input current. The input current means a current passing through the coils for generating magnetic fields and magnetic flux in the pole pieces and across the magnetic gaps . It should be noted that input currents having different waveform shapes will produce different haptic effect when an input current is in a square waveform the haptic effect will be different than when the input current waveform has a sinusoidal shape. In one embodiment the frequency of haptic effects may have a range between about 40 and about 300 Hertz Hz .

An advantage of using such a magnetic circuit with an actuator as described above is to efficiently generate force. Unlike other methods a permanent magnet is not required to implement the present invention. One could be included to add a small magnetic bias to the magnetic circuit however. Another advantage of actuator is that it may be made very compact in size. For example in one embodiment actuator may be about 1.5 inches long 0.6 inches high and 0.3 inches deep. Depending on the orientation of the actuator with respect to a touch sensitive panel it can excite either in plane or out of plane motion between the touch sensitive panel and the display device for haptic sensation. It should be noted that the L shaped pole pieces as illustrated in represent merely one embodiment and other arrangements of the pole pieces may also be used although the L shaped pole pieces are believed to be relatively space efficient for this application.

C shaped pole piece is placed adjacent to pole piece with two gaps . The width of the gap is approximately 0.5 mm. When the input current passes through the coils a magnetic flux is generated. Magnetic flux generates the attractive magnetic force between the pole pieces . The attractive magnetic force causes the pole piece to move closer to the pole piece . Alternatively the attractive magnetic force can cause pole piece to move closer to pole piece if pole piece is relatively fixed. Haptic effects may be generated by the movements caused by the attractive magnetic force between the pole pieces .

Electromagnet component includes an E shaped pole piece an I shaped pole piece and a coil . Pole pieces may be constructed as discussed above. E shaped pole piece is placed adjacent to the I shaped pole piece with a gap . The width of the gap is approximately 0.5 mm. When the input current passes through coils magnetic flux lines are generated. Magnetic flux lines cause an attractive magnetic force between pole pieces . The attractive magnetic force causes pole piece to move closer to pole piece and effectively narrow the width of the gap . In another embodiment the attractive magnetic force causes the pole piece to move closer to pole piece if pole piece is fastened to housing. A haptic effect may be generated by movements between the pole pieces.

Actuator further includes structural elements and biasing element to form a frame. It should be noted that structural elements and biasing element can be manufactured at the same time and on a single frame. Alternatively structural elements and biasing element may be formed as separate structures that are then assembled together. Structural elements are fabricated or discussed above to provide physical support for the pole pieces . Biasing element which may be formed as described above is made of an elastic material that may be compressed or stretched within a predefined range. Referring to it should be noted that biasing element may be located anywhere as long as it is coupled with structural elements and provides its biasing or spring function in opposition to the attractive gap closing magnetic force of the magnetic devices.

Actuator further includes structural elements and biasing elements to form a frame that allows some movements between the structural elements . It should be noted that structural elements and biasing elements are manufactured separately and they need to be assembled to form a frame. Structural elements are made of rigid materials such as plastic steel aluminum and so forth to provide physical support for the pole pieces . Biasing elements may be implemented as discussed above and may be made of elastic materials that can be compressed or stretched within a predefined range. Referring to it should be noted that any type of biasing element may be used as long as it facilitates movement between the pole pieces and may be arranged to counter the attractive gap closing force of the magnetic devices.

Referring to one side of actuator is coupled to the case while another side of actuator is coupled to the touch sensitive panel . Structural element as shown in is fastened to the case . In this embodiment the case is rigid and does not move easily. In one embodiment appertures may be used by fasteners to couple the structural element to the case . Structural element is in turn fastened to a touch sensitive panel . Touch sensitive panel in one embodiment may be made of relatively flexible transparent materials. In one embodiment holes may be used to fasten the structural element to the touch sensitive panel .

When power is applied and input current begins to pass through the coils the attractive gap closing force between pole pieces and starts to increase. The attractive force causes the pole piece to be attracted to the pole piece where pole piece is held fixed. Pole piece begins to move toward the pole piece to close the gaps until it reaches a second equilibrium position as illustrated in . When power is reduced or removed the attractive force between pole pieces and begins to reduce and consequently the pole piece begins to move back to its original position in response to the return force provided by the biasing elements . The biasing elements continue to force the pole piece to move back until it reaches the first equilibrium position as shown in . The movements between the pole pieces cause similar movements between the structural elements . In one embodiment the movements between the structural elements generate haptic effects or haptic sensation. Since touch sensitive panel is fastened to structural element haptic effects on the touch sensitive panel occur when the movement between the structural elements occurs. Depending on the orientation of the actuator with respect to the touch sensitive panel haptic effects may excite either in plane or out of plane motion with respect to the touch sensitive panel .

When power is off the biasing elements provide minimal force to keep the actuator in the first equilibrium position as described and shown in . When power is on the input current passes through the coils and generates magnetic flux in the pole pieces . Magnetic flux causes an attractive magnetic force between the pole pieces across gaps . The attractive magnetic force acts against the biasing elements and pulls the pole pieces closer together at the gaps . Pole piece in this embodiment may be secured to a case via the structural element while pole piece is secured to a touch sensitive panel via the structural element . The attractive magnetic force causes the pole piece to move from right to left as indicated by toward the pole piece . When the pole piece is displaced enough distance a second equilibrium position is reached as shown in . When power is reduced or removed the biasing elements force the pole piece back to the first equilibrium position as discussed earlier.

In one embodiment touch sensitive panel is further divided into various regions and the regions are further separated by borders . Touch sensitive panel accepts a user s selection when only a region is touched. Conversely touch sensitive panel rejects a user s selection when a border is touched. Touch sensitive panel further includes four actuators and depending on their orientation actuators can excite either in plane or out of plane motion with respect to the touch sensitive panel for haptic sensation. Actuators may be installed to move touch sensitive panel for relative to display .

At block the process receives a contact signal from the touch sensitive which may be sent by a touch sensitive panel according to a selection made by a user. In another embodiment a computer or controller sends a contact signal. Upon receipt of the contact signal the process moves to the next block .

At block the process instructs a controller to provide an input current according to the contact signal. In one embodiment the input current is passing through at least one electromagnet device of an actuator to generate magnetic flux in a pair of pole pieces.

At block the magnetic flux creates attractive magnetic force between the electromagnet devices which opposes a biasing force imparted by biasing elements arranged to counter the attractive magnetic force. The attractive magnetic force causes the pole pieces of the electromagnet devices to attract to each other. The process moves to the next block.

At block the attractive magnetic force creates a movement between the electromagnet devices. In one embodiment one pole piece of one electromagnet device is physically moved closer to another pole piece of another electromagnet device. At block the current is removed. At block a biasing element provides a bias force or return force to control the movement between the electromagnet devices within a predefined range. When the power is reduced or turned off in block the pole pieces of electromagnet devices move back to their original positions.

With turning on and off the power continuously a continuous movement between the electromagnet devices is created. Accordingly the haptic effect is generated in response to the movement between the electromagnet devices. It should be noted that the frequency and amplitude of the movements between the electromagnet devices can be controlled by controlling the input current.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader scope of the invention. For example if desired two or more actuators could be attached together to provide multiple inputs to generate haptic effects and or to increase the haptic effect and or a component to be haptically effected could be arranged so that actuators are arranged to be able to pull it in more than one direction. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

