---

title: High-power laser using thulium-doped fiber amplifier and frequency quadrupling for blue output
abstract: An apparatus, method and associated fiber-laser architectures for high-power pulsed operation and pumping wavelength-conversion devices. Some embodiments generate blue laser light by frequency quadrupling infrared (IR) light from Tm-doped gain fiber using non-linear wavelength conversion. Some embodiments use a fiber MOPA configuration to amplify a seed signal from a semiconductor laser or ring fiber laser. Some embodiments use the frequency-quadrupled blue light for underwater communications, imaging, and/or object and anomaly detection. Some embodiments amplitude modulate the IR seed signal to encode communication data sent to or from a submarine once the modulated light has its wavelength quartered. Other embodiments transmit blue-light pulses in a scanned pattern and detect scattered light to measure distances to objects in a raster-scanned underwater volume, which in turn are used to generate a data structure representing a three-dimensional rendition of the underwater scene being imaged for viewing by a person or for other software analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08953647&OS=08953647&RS=08953647
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08953647
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
This application claims priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 198 405 filed on Oct. 13 2009 titled HIGH POWER LASER USING THULIUM DOPED FIBER AMPLIFIER AND FREQUENCY QUADRUPLING FOR BLUE OUTPUT which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to optical waveguides and more particularly to fiber lasers and fiber amplifiers that output high peak power pulses well over a kilowatt kW in a first output beam having a first infrared signal wavelength e.g. in some embodiments about 1900 nm wherein the first output beam is passed through a wavelength conversion device to generate a second output beam at a second blue or blue green wavelength that is one quarter the wavelength of the first signal wavelength near 475 nm wherein in some embodiments the blue or blue green output is used for communications to and or from underwater locations and or for underwater LIDAR light distancing and ranging or imaging where this output wavelength is particularly beneficial for transmission through seawater.

Conventional state of the art lasers for outputting high power blue green or blue light having wavelengths in the 450 500 nm region are very costly inefficient and fragile. Prior art devices for generating these wavelengths typically require many nonlinear conversion steps including use of a tunable laser or optical parametric oscillator.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 288 835 titled OPTICAL AMPLIFIERS AND LIGHT SOURCE to Lars Johan Albinsson Nilsson is incorporated herein by reference. This patent describes single or few moded waveguiding cladding pumped lasers superfluorescent sources and amplifiers as well as lasers including those for high energy pulses in which the interaction between the waveguided light and a gain medium is substantially reduced. This leads to decreased losses of guided desired light as well as to decreased losses through emission of undesired light compared to devices of the prior art. Furthermore cross talk and inter symbol interference in semiconductor amplifiers can be reduced. Also described are devices with a predetermined saturation power and a single transverse mode optical fiber laser or amplifier in which the active medium providing gain or saturable absorption is shaped as a ring situated in a region of the fiber s cross section where the intensity of the signal light is substantially reduced compared to its peak value. The fiber can be cladding pumped.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 867 558 titled Method of remotely detecting submarines using a laser that issued Sep. 19 1989 to Leonard et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 893 924 titled Method of remotely detecting submarines using a laser that issued Jan. 16 1990 also to Leonard et al. are both incorporated herein by reference. Leonard et al. describe monitoring subsurface water temperatures using a laser to detect subsurface waves in a body of water such as an ocean caused by a submarine. A pulsed laser beam is directed into the water to at least the depth of the thermocline and an analysis is made of the resultant Brillouin and Rayleigh backscatter components. Wavelength shifted Brillouin scatter is mixed with the unshifted Rayleigh scatter in a self heterodyne manner for each volume element of illuminated water and the frequency of the heterodyne signal is measured and converted into temperature. In those patents the scheme is not directly detecting the submarine but instead is detecting the internal waves in the thermocline boundary in the seawater. The submarine s passage leaves ripples in the thermocline which are subsequently detected by the system incorporating a laser.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 283 426 titled Method and apparatus for detecting submarines that issued to Grasso on Oct. 16 2007 is incorporated herein by reference. Grasso describes detecting tracking and locating submarines utilizing pulsed coherent radiation from a laser that is projected down through a water column with particles in the water producing speckle from backscatter of the random particle distribution with correlation of two closely time spaced particle based speckle patterns providing an intensity measurement indicative of the presence of a submarine. Subsurface submarine movement provides a subsurface wake which causes movement of particles such that two closely spaced snapshots of the returns from particles in the same water column can detect particle movement due to the wake.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 270 780 titled Dual detector LIDAR system and method that issued to Moran et al. on Dec. 14 1993 is incorporated herein by reference. This patent describes a light detection and ranging LIDAR system that uses dual detectors to provide three dimensional imaging of underwater objects or other objects hidden by a partially transmissive medium . An initial laser pulse is transmitted to known x y coordinates of a target area. The photo signals returned from the target area from this initial pulse are directed to the low resolution high bandwidth detector where a preliminary determination as to the location depth or z coordinate of an object in the target area is made based on the time of receipt of the return photo signal. A second laser pulse is then transmitted to the target area and the return photo signals from such second laser pulse are directed to the high resolution narrow bandwidth detector. This high resolution detector is gated on at a time so that only photo signals returned from a narrow slice of the target area corresponding to the previously detected depth of the object are received.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 504 719 titled Laser hydrophone and virtual array of laser hydrophones that issued to Jacobs on Apr. 2 1996 is incorporated herein by reference. This patent describes a hydrophone or a virtual array of hydrophones for sensing the amplitude frequency and in arrays the direction of sonic waves in water. The hydrophone employs a laser beam which is focused upon a small focal volume of water in which natural light scattering matter is suspended and which matter vibrates in synchronism with any sonic waves present. The vibration produces a phase modulation of the scattered light which may be recovered by optical heterodyne and sensitive phase detection techniques. The sonic waves are sensed at locations displaced from the focusing lenses.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 091 778 titled Imaging LIDAR systems and K meters employing tunable and fixed frequency laser transmitters that issued to Keeler on Feb. 25 1992 is incorporated herein by reference. Keeler describes a laser imaging system for underwater use that employs a wavelength tunable laser. In particular Keeler emphasizes the operation of the laser at blue wavelengths to optimize the performance in the open ocean.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 505 366 titled Method for linear optoacoustic communication and optimization that issued to Blackmon et al. on Mar. 17 2009 is incorporated herein by reference. Blackmon et al. describe optical to acoustic energy conversion for optoacoustic communication from an in air platform to an undersea vehicle. They describe directing a high power laser at the ocean surface in order to generate acoustic waves sound wherein the sound is used as the communications signal to an underwater target receiver. Blackmon et al. assert that signals used in underwater acoustic telemetry applications are capable of being generated through a linear optoacoustic regime conversion process. They address the use of oblique laser beam incidence at an air water interface to obtain considerable in air range from the laser source to the water surface where the sound is formed to communicate to the undersea vehicle.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0253453 titled Solid state laser arrays using published Nov. 1 2007 and U.S. Patent Application Publication 2008 0317072 titled Compact solid state laser published Dec. 25 2008 both by Essaian and Shchegrov are incorporated herein by reference. Essaian et al. describe a compact solid state laser array for nonlinear intracavity frequency conversion into desired wavelengths using periodically poled nonlinear crystals. The crystals contain dopants such as MgO and or have a specified stoichiometry. One embodiment includes a periodically poled nonlinear crystal chip such as periodically poled MgO doped lithium niobate PPMgOLN periodically poled MgO doped lithium tantalate PPMgOLT periodically poled ZnO doped lithium niobate PPZnOLN periodically poled ZnO doped lithium tantalate PPZnOLT periodically poled stoichiometric lithium niobate PPSLN and periodically poled stoichiometric lithium tantalate PPSLT periodically poled MgO and ZnO doped near stoichiometric lithium niobate PPMgOSLN PPZnOSLN or periodically poled MgO and or ZnO doped near stoichiometric lithium tantalate PPMgOSLT PPZnOSLT for efficient frequency doubling of an infrared laser pump beam into the visible wavelength range. The described designs are said to be especially advantageous for obtaining low cost green and blue laser sources. The use of such high efficiency pumps and nonlinear materials allows scaling of a compact low cost architecture to provide high output power levels in the blue green wavelength range.

What are needed are improved methods and apparatus for generating high power pulses of infrared IR light of particular wavelengths and converting this light to blue green and or blue light. Also needed are systems capable of deep underwater communications imaging and other sensing using light obtained from a frequency converted laser beam.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus method and associated fiber laser architectures for high power pulsed operation and for pumping of wavelength conversion devices. In some embodiments the wavelength conversion generates blue laser light by frequency quadrupling the infrared light from an initial thulium Tm doped fiber laser using a non linear wavelength conversion device. In some embodiments the initial Tm doped fiber laser uses a master oscillator power amplifier MOPA configuration that uses a seed laser beam from a semiconductor laser that is amplified by one or more fiber amplifiers. In other embodiments the initial laser or the seed laser if the initial laser uses a MOPA configuration is a Q switched or cavity dumped ring fiber laser. In yet other embodiments the seed source includes a distributed feedback DFB laser diode a distributed Bragg reflector DBR laser diode or a laser diode externally stabilized with a fiber Bragg grating or a volume Bragg grating.

In some embodiments the one or more fiber amplifiers include a large mode area LMA fiber and or include a polarization maintaining PM fiber and or include a multiply clad fiber that uses cladding pumping and or uses a plurality of stages e.g. lengths of active amplifying fibers separated by pump blocks e.g. monolithic free space optical elements that inject additional pump light and or filter the signal light to narrow the linewidth and or remove amplified spontaneous emission ASE and then pass the signal light to a further amplifying fiber such as described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 7 537 395 titled DIODE LASER PUMP MODULE WITH INTEGRATED SIGNAL PORTS FOR PUMPING AMPLIFYING FIBERS AND METHOD that issued May 26 2009 and as described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 420 751 that was filed May 27 2006 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 941 019 on May 10 2011 titled MONOLITHIC PUMP BLOCK FOR OPTICAL AMPLIFIERS AND ASSOCIATED METHOD and which are each incorporated herein by reference .

In some embodiments the frequency quadrupled blue light from the laser is used for underwater communications imaging and or object and anomaly detection. In some embodiments the infrared IR light from the initial or seed laser is pulsed and or otherwise amplitude modulated wherein the pulses and or other amplitude modulation encode data that is to be communicated to or from an underwater vehicle such as a submarine once the modulated light has its wavelength quartered i.e. has its frequency quadrupled . In other embodiments the frequency quadrupled blue light pulses are transmitted in a scanned pattern such as a raster scan and a light detector measures reflections of the light pulses to allow time of flight measurement of distances to objects or other anomalies in each of a plurality of directions i.e. of the raster scanned underwater volume which in turn are used to generate a data structure representing a three dimensional rendition of the underwater volume i.e. of the scene being imaged for viewing by a person or for other software processing and analysis.

The architectures of the present invention enable operation of the initial or seed fiber laser in Q switched cavity dumping or hybrid Q switched cavity dumping modes. In all of these modes of operation the initial or seed laser is designed as a unidirectional ring cavity which minimizes pulse to pulse amplitude temporal instabilities and feedback effects.

In some embodiments of the Q switched mode the initial or seed laser includes a large core rare earth doped fiber featuring a core having a low numeric aperture NA in some embodiments the low core NA is explicitly configured and intended to minimize the fraction of spontaneous emission from the active species e.g. the dopant that is captured and amplified in the core an electro optic switch of high on off extinction 10 dB or higher that provides enough inter pulse extinction to minimize circulation and amplification of spontaneous emission in the cavity of the initial or seed laser in one of the invention s baseline embodiments this modulator is a small aperture rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell an output coupler and an intracavity bandpass filter to enforce lasing operation in a narrow wavelength range.

In some embodiments of the cavity dumped mode the initial or seed laser is configured in a similar manner except that an output coupler is no longer necessary since the optical power can be extracted from the laser cavity by the electro optic switch itself. The same initial or seed laser can be configured to operate in both Q switched and cavity dumping modes as well as in hybrid modes e.g. partial Q switch followed by cavity dumping . In some embodiments the initial or seed laser can be used as or inject laser light into a regenerative solid state optical amplifier.

Some embodiments include an all fiber pulsed or Q switched ring laser such as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 263 736 titled Q SWITCHED OSCILLATOR SEED SOURCE FOR MOPA LASER ILLUMINATOR METHOD AND APPARATUS filed by Savage Leuchs et al. on Nov. 23 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference . Other embodiments use a different type of ring laser as the initial master oscillator or seed stage in a master oscillator power amplifier MOPA system or as a power oscillator stage the ring laser having a large core rare earth doped fiber that is ring connected with a free space path having an electro optic switch output coupler one way unidirectional isolator and or intracavity bandpass filter to enforce lasing operation in a narrow wavelength range such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 053 551 titled HIGH POWER PULSED RING FIBER OSCILLATOR AND METHOD filed by Di Teodoro et al. on Mar. 28 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 876 803 on Jan. 25 2011 . In some cavity dumped modes the laser is configured in a similar manner except that an output coupler is no longer necessary since the optical power can be extracted from the laser cavity by the electro optic switch itself. In some embodiments the same laser is configured to operate in Q switched cavity dumping modes in hybrid modes e.g. partial Q switch followed by cavity dumping or even continuous wave CW i.e. a laser beam that is continuous and substantially constant in amplitude when the laser is on and not pulsed or amplitude modulated wherein some downstream output beam is amplitude modulated. In some embodiments the laser is used as or injects laser light into a regenerative solid state amplifier is used as a Raman amplifier or is used as a Raman laser to access wavelengths in the near and mid infrared wavelength ranges which wavelengths are then wavelength converted to one quarter the wavelength using non linear wavelength conversion. In some embodiments the laser is also used to generate visible ultra violet mid infrared and far infrared terahertz THz radiation via nonlinear wavelength conversion processes including frequency doubling tripling and quadrupling optical parametric generation optical parametric amplification and optical parametric oscillation difference frequency mixing sum frequency mixing and optical rectification. In some of any of these embodiments the initial IR laser is used as a stand alone laser whose output is wavelength converted to a wavelength in the range of 450 500 nm while in other embodiments the initial IR laser is used as a seed or master laser for one or more optical power amplifiers the master oscillator power amplifier MOPA configuration and the output of those one or more amplifiers is wavelength converted.

In some embodiments the initial laser of the present invention in all of its modes of operation Q switched cavity dumped or partial Q switch followed by cavity dumping emits radiation in the 1650 to 2100 nm range in some embodiments using a fiber doped with Tm Ho or both and the final output wavelength is in the 412 to 525 nm range . In some embodiments the wavelength is in the 1800 to 2000 nm range and the final output wavelength is in the 450 to 500 nm range . In all of these embodiments the initial laser can be used as a stand alone laser whose output frequency is quadrupled or as a seed laser for optical amplifiers whose output frequency is quadrupled.

In some embodiments the present invention provides high power output pulses that are used for underwater communications or for detection of underwater objects or disturbances such as turbulence due to submarines or marine animals or for mapping sea bottom topography.

Other advantages of the present invention include low cost relatively compact footprint few parts solid state parts and relatively simple setup and operation.

Although the following detailed description contains many specifics for the purpose of illustration a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the following preferred embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention. Further in the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The leading digit s of reference numbers appearing in the Figures generally corresponds to the Figure number in which that component is first introduced such that the same reference number is used throughout to refer to an identical component that appears in multiple figures. Signals and connections may be referred to by the same reference number or label and the actual meaning will be clear from its use in the context of the description.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus and process wherein a fiber ring laser is operated in Q switched cavity dumping or hybrid Q switched cavity dumping modes. In some embodiments the fiber laser operates in the infrared wavelengths having one or more wavelengths selectable via the one or more active dopant species that is are used in the fabrication of the fiber and via the bandpass filter s used and outputs short duration very high power pulses e.g. thousands of kilowatts in some embodiments . In some embodiments the output of the fiber ring laser is converted to radiation having a desired wavelength in the visible or ultra violet for transmission through water and in particular seawater via nonlinear wavelength conversion devices including frequency doubling tripling quadrupling and or quintupling elements optical parametric generation units optical parametric amplification units and optical parametric oscillation units difference frequency mixing units sum frequency mixing units and optical rectification units for example. Some embodiments also output radiation in the mid infrared or far infrared THz range for use in communication in air between aircraft and or surface vessels.

In some embodiments each vehicle in system of has a receiving apparatus configured to receive laser beam communications from other vehicles. For example in a surface ship vehicle see the laser beam from the remote vehicle is received e.g. by an optional receiver pointer unit that preferentially receives laser light of a particular wavelength e.g. 470 nm from a particular direction e.g. from the direction of the remote vehicle in order to increase its signal to noise ratio. In some embodiments the received laser signal and any associated light noise e.g. other wavelengths that are not desired is passed through narrowband wavelength bandpass filter that passes only the desired wavelengths e.g. having a FWHM linewidth of 1 nm or less centered at a wavelength of 470 nm and rejects other wavelengths. This filtered light is then detected by beam detector which generates an electrical signal representative of the encoded data and this electrical signal is coupled to communications reception demodulator which then outputs the decoded data e.g. text images or other tactical or strategic data . In some embodiments the beam steering unit and or the receiver pointer unit are included in the vehicle interface unit of .

In some embodiments the transmitted beam is polarized e.g. in some embodiments linearly polarized in other embodiments circularly polarized . In some embodiments filter of receiver includes a polarizer having an orientation that is or selectively can be oriented to match the polarization of the transmitted beam . In other embodiments receiver is replicated in whole or in part wherein a received light signal that includes beam is directed through a polarizing beam splitter considered part of filter e.g. such that the horizontal polarized light is split from the vertically polarized light in other embodiments the incoming beam is split or received by different receiver pointers and each part directed through a separate polarized filter having a different polarization . In some embodiments the different polarizations are each detected and the resulting signals subtracted from one another in order to further distinguish the desired signal having one polarization from the portion of background light having a different polarization.

In some embodiments receiving apparatus is configured to receive laser beam reflections of the transmitted beam. In some embodiments receiving apparatus is in the same vehicle as the transmitter while in other embodiments receiving apparatus is in a different vehicle located at a position that better receives the reflections from a particular underwater feature. Some embodiments include a receiver pointer unit that preferentially receives laser light of a particular wavelength e.g. 470 nm and or polarization from a particular direction e.g. from the direction of reflections of the transmitted beam in order to increase its signal to noise ratio. In some embodiments the received laser signal and any associated light noise e.g. other ambient wavelengths that are not desired is passed through filter e.g. in some embodiments a narrowband wavelength bandpass filter that passes only the desired wavelengths e.g. having a FWHM linewidth of 1 nm or less centered at a wavelength of 470 nm and rejects other wavelengths. In some embodiments filter includes a polarizing beamsplitter or similar apparatus that obtains two or more signals from different polarizations of the received light wherein each polarized beam is detected by a respective beam detector and the processing done by signal reception image processing unit includes subtracting the signal from one polarization from the signal of another polarization e.g. to remove ambient light signals that are in both polarizations or other such signal processing to enhance the signal to noise ratio. In some embodiments the output image data is processed to generate X3D data structures such as can be readily viewed and manipulated using conventionally available virtual reality rendering software in order to enhance the visualization and simplify the storage and transmission of the 3D data.

In some embodiments the transmitted pulsed light beam includes a frequency quadrupled laser beam having a broad linewidth or two different polarizations or the transmitted pulsed light beam includes two or more frequency quadrupled laser beams each having a different wavelength and or polarization in order that the received reflected signal can be detected and analyzed in a manner that takes advantage of the wavelength and or polarization sensitivity of different scattering absorption fluorescence dispersion detecting a change between different amounts of normal dispersion wherein the index of refraction of the material for blue wavelengths is higher than the index of refraction of the material for red wavelengths such that the bluer part shorter wavelengths of the transmitted spectrum travels slower than the redder part longer wavelengths of the spectrum which results in the temporal spectrum of a pulse being distorted with its shorter wavelengths arriving after its longer wavelengths or detecting a change between normal dispersion and anomalous dispersion wherein the redder part of the transmitted spectrum travels faster than the bluer part of the spectrum or reflection mechanisms. In some embodiments the pulse timing of the different transmitted pulsed signals is made either synchronous and simultaneous wherein each pulse from each source is simultaneous with the pulses from the source having other wavelengths or polarizations synchronous and non simultaneous wherein each pulse from each source is alternated with the pulses from the sources having other wavelengths or polarizations or even asynchronous with pulses of other sources.

The direction limited wavelength and polarization filtered light is detected by beam detector which generates one or more electrical signals representative of the various reflected polarizations and or wavelength signal data and these one or more electrical signals is or are coupled to image processor which then outputs the image data e.g. 2D or 3D images X3D or VRML data i.e. data in industry standard data formats used for 3D data or virtual reality markup language formats or other image anomaly or object detection data . In some embodiments the beam steering unit and the receiver pointer unit are included in a vehicle interface unit such as shown in .

In some embodiments a single set of the IR laser and frequency conversion apparatus is used for both underwater communications as described and shown in and as well as for the imaging and object detection as described and shown in and . In some such embodiments the information being communicated using the elements described in is encoded onto the ranging pulses that are being scanned for image acquisition such as described in in such a manner that only the pulses in one particular direction have the data to be communicated to a communications target in that particular direction while pulses in other portions of the scan pattern would not include the communicated data but instead would include noise or other pattern data or no pattern data. For example if the scan pattern of pulses from the transmitter were transmitted at angles that formed an X Y Cartesian pattern of 1024 pixels by 1024 pixels and the vessel to be communicated with were located in the direction of a given pixel location e.g. pixel grid location 348 750 then the pulses to that pixel grid location are modulated e.g. the timing of the pulse width of the pulse amplitude of the pulse and or some other attribute of the pulse is varied based on the data to be communicated while pulses to other pixel grid locations could be varied in other ways in order that the communicated data and the direction to the target vessel could be disguised.

In some embodiments the submarine e.g. vehicle of wishing to remain hidden or to disguise its position would include a receiver capable of detecting a scan pattern of the imaging or object detection laser beam from another vehicle e.g. a surface vessel or aircraft and to then transmit its own scan pattern with differing delays relative to the transmitted pulses in order that the scattering or reflections or other light interactions from the beam of the submarine would be received by surface vessel or aircraft and be misinterpreted as innocuous terrain scattering reflections and or noise. If the imaging vehicle were transmitting CW or large area pulsed light to illuminate and image an entire scene the submarine could transmit a supplementary illumination toward the sea bottom that could hide thermocline disturbances caused by its passing.

In some embodiments pump laser launches pump light via an output dichroic beam splitter B in a counter propagating direction to the amplified signal light that is emerging as beam and bandpass filter between lens and beam splitter B is used to further narrow the bandwidth also called the linewidth of intermediate output beam . In some embodiments output coupler beam splitter B includes a dichroic beam splitter that reflects the high power short pulse signal light so that the high power signal beam does not pass through this element and passes pump light straight through unimpeded into coupler . In some embodiments the MOPA laser output beam is focused by lens to generate beam which is directed into wavelength conversion device in some embodiments device includes a first frequency doubler e.g. that converts 1880 nm wavelength light to 940 nm wavelength light and a serial second frequency doubler e.g. that converts 940 nm wavelength light to 470 nm wavelength light and its output is collimated by lens into optional beam steering or beam aiming device to form directed output beam . In some embodiments system fits into a footprint of about 50 cm by 40 cm or smaller.

In some embodiments of the present invention the gain fiber s used in the master oscillator and or power amplifier stages of each of the described ring lasers are doped with Tm in some embodiments the lasing signal wavelength is about 1900 nm while in other embodiments the lasing signal wavelength is in the range of about 1700 nm to about 2100 nm and in some embodiments the pump light for the MOPA has a wavelength in the range of about 780 nm to 810 nm.

In some embodiments of the present invention the gain fiber s used in the master oscillator and or power amplifier stages of each of the described ring lasers is doped with Tm in some embodiments the lasing signal wavelength is about 1940 nm while in other embodiments the lasing signal wavelength is in the range of about 1880 nm and about 2040 nm and in some embodiments a pump wavelength of about 794 nm is used such as described in co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 050 937 which is incorporated herein by reference and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 202 268 to Wells et al. on Jun. 19 2012 .

In some embodiments the wavelength filter of the ring lasers can be adjusted by e.g. tilting the filter element to achieve the desired wavelength of the ring laser.

In some embodiments of each of the other ring lasers in the figures e.g. those shown in and described herein the respective gain fibers for the master oscillators power oscillators and or power amplifiers include passive PM end fibers spliced to one or both ends of the gain fibers in order to reduce heat in portions of the fiber that are not in good thermal contact with a heat sink such as a water cooled mandrel as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 053 551 filed on Mar. 21 2008 titled HIGH POWER PULSED RING FIBER OSCILLATOR AND METHOD which is incorporated herein by reference and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 876 803 on Jan. 25 2011 .

For example some embodiments use a rare earth doped fiber e.g. in some embodiments the length of gain fiber is in the range of 1 5 meters long in some embodiments having a thulium doped core having a core diameter e.g. in some embodiments a constant core diameter for the length of the fiber in a range of about 10 microns to about 25 microns or larger and an outer diameter of between about 250 microns and about 400 microns fibers such as these are available or can be ordered from companies such as Nufern 7 Airport Park Road East Granby Conn. 06026 Coractive 2700 Jean Perrin Suite 121 Quebec Qc Canada G2C 1S9 or OFS 2000 Northeast Expressway Norcross Ga. 30071 .

As described in co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 050 937 titled METHOD AND MULTIPLE MODE DEVICE FOR HIGH POWER SHORT PULSE LASER ABLATION AND CW CAUTERIZATION OF BODILY TISSUES that was filed Mar. 18 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 202 268 on Jun. 19 2012 some embodiments can also provide a continuous wave CW mode or quasi CW mode by outputting a CW activation signal in order to enable CW operation of the master oscillator without Q switching.

In some embodiments a power amplifier pump laser is used to pump the power amplifier stage in some embodiments this power amplifier pump laser is a semiconductor laser bar e.g. up to 50 watts or more in some embodiments that generates pump light having a wavelength of approximately 785 nm which is effectively absorbed by the gain fiber in order to amplify the signal light to form the output signal beam. In some embodiments a master oscillator pump laser is a semiconductor laser bar that generates pump light e.g. up to 25 watts or more in some embodiments also having a wavelength of approximately 785 nm which is effectively absorbed by the master oscillator s gain fiber in order to amplify feedback signal light to form the intermediate output seed signal beam.

In some embodiments ring laser also includes a pump laser e.g. a moderately low power diode laser that outputs a continuous wave CW signal during operation of the laser a dichroic beam splitter also labeled Ml indicating mirror which reflects only the pump light that passes the signal wavelength traveling in a clockwise direction but reflects the pump light in a counter propagating counter clockwise direction into the ring fiber a first polarizing beam splitter Q switch modulator driven by a pulsed driving voltage from pulse source a second polarizing beam splitter optical isolator used to obtain unidirectional in a clockwise direction in the embodiment shown signal in the ring laser first half wave plate a third polarizing beam splitter used to output the infrared intermediate output beam through bandpass filter and then dichroic beamsplitter also labeled mirror M which in some embodiments is replaced by an optical isolator that prevents any high power signal or pump light from traveling in a backward direction from the power amplifier stage into the master oscillator wherein the signal is amplified by power amplifier to form high power output signal pulses that exit through lens . In some embodiments low power infrared intermediate output beam passes through a second bandpass filter before entering the power amplifier . In some embodiments the wavelength spectrum of low power infrared intermediate output beam is narrowed and determined by bandpass filter e.g. in some embodiments a filter having a 1.0 1.5 nm linewidth passband in other embodiments the filter has a less than 1 nm pass band . In the master oscillator ring the clockwise traveling signal light continues from polarizing beam splitter PBS through bandpass filter e.g. a Fabry Perot interferometer having an angle adjustable wavelength selectivity . In some embodiments the wavelength spectrum of beam is narrowed and determined by bandpass filter e.g. in some embodiments a filter having a 0.7 nm linewidth passband such as a bandpass filter part available from Barr Associates Inc. 2 Lyberty Way Westford Mass. 01886 USA having a web address www.barrassociates.com . In some embodiments the pump light from pump laser counter propagates relative to beam and is launched or combined in the counter clockwise direction in the figure into the ring beam by dichroic beam splitter e.g. in some embodiments a dichroic beam splitter mirror such as is available from Barr Associates Inc. .

In some embodiments isolator e.g. in some embodiments an optical isolator such as is available from Electro Optics Technology Inc. 5835 Shugart Lane Traverse City Mich. 49684 USA having a web address www.eotech.com ensures unidirectional clockwise direction in the figure lasing in the ring laser . In some embodiments the gain fiber is thulium doped to lase at about 1880 nm e.g. in some embodiments about 2 meters of thulium doped gain fiber . In some embodiments the Q switch modulator is an RTP Pockels cell e.g. in some embodiments Q Switch RTP 4 4 20 mm from Raicol Crystals Ltd. 15 Giron St. Industrial Zone Yehud 56217 Israel with a web site at www.raicol.com as described in detail previously for .

In some embodiments the half wave retardation plates and e.g. in some embodiments part number CWO 1960 02 04 available from Lattice Electro Optics of Fullerton Calif. www.latticeoptics.com or half wave plates such as are available from CVI Laser L.L.C. 200 Dorado SE Albuquerque N. Mex. 87123 USA having a web address www.cvilaser.com each provide a rotation in the direction of polarization of beam by an amount greater than 45 degrees and less than 90 degrees in some embodiments with an angle set or optimized by measuring the output power with a power meter and maximizing the output power by adjusting the polarization angle. In some embodiments beam splitters and are polarizing beam splitting PBS cubes e.g. in some embodiments such as are available from CVI Laser L.L.C. or a Glan Thompson walk off polarizer . In some embodiments PBS cleans up the polarization of the signal light before it enters modulator e.g. an electro optic RTP Q switch while the second PBS is used with the modulator to pass or block the signal beam . Half wave plate is set to an angle that rotates the direction of polarization such that most of the signal beam is output to low power infrared intermediate beam while passing a small portion through narrow linewidth bandpass filter to seed further lasing. In some embodiments a second half wave plate is used to rotate the seed light polarization to match the polarization angle of the gain fiber . In some embodiments gain fiber is a polarizing polarization maintaining amplifying fiber e.g. in some embodiments one that includes two stress rods one on either side of its 25 micron core in a 250 micron diameter fiber to promote and maintain polarized amplification in the fiber. In some embodiments the bandpass filter is a 0.7 nm linewidth thin film interferometer set at angle to select the desired wavelength. Lens focuses the seed light into the endcap of fiber .

In some embodiments the low power pulsed infrared intermediate beam is focused by lens into an endcap of power amplifier fiber where it is amplified using pump light from power amplifier pump laser subsystem which in some embodiments includes a plurality of laser diodes that are directed into respective fibers that are joined by a fiber coupler into a single fiber and output through a fiber to free space coupler e.g. in some embodiments formed by a fused silica endcap and collimated by lens into a parallel beam that is reflected by dichroic beamsplitter to lens that focusses the pump beam in a counter propagating direction right to left in the diagram to enter through a free space to fiber coupler into fiber . Amplified signal pulses from the fiber propagating in a left to right direction in are collimated by lens and pass through dichroic beamsplitter to output as pulse beam which is focused by lens into non linear device e.g. a series of two conventional frequency doubling devices that change the output wavelength to one quarter its starting wavelength e.g. in some embodiments from 1880 nm to 470 nm as described above for and the frequency quadrupled pulses are collimated by lens and output as pulsed beam .

In some embodiments the high power pulsed infrared intermediate beam is frequency quadrupled from 1880 nm IR to 470 nm blue by a wavelength conversion device that includes a first frequency doubler non linear crystal such as periodically poled MgO doped lithium niobate PPMgOLN or periodically poled MgO doped lithium tantalate PPMgOLT used for medium to high power embodiments because the MgO doping increases the optical damage threshold or periodically poled lithium niobate PPLN used for low power embodiments that converts the 1880 nm IR to 940 nm IR wavelengths and a second frequency doubler non linear crystal such as lithium borate LBO or periodically poled nonlinear frequency doubling crystal such as PPMgOLN PPMgOLT PPZnOLN PPZnOLT stoichiometric PPLN called PPSLN herein or stoichiometric PPLT called PPSLT herein that converts the 940 nm IR to 470 nm blue wavelengths. In some embodiments the first and second frequency doubler non linear crystals are selected from among those such as PPMgOLN PPMgOLT PPZnOLN PPZnOLT PPSLN or PPSLT described in U.S. Patent Application Publication 2007 0253453 titled Solid state laser arrays using and U.S. Patent Application Publication 2008 0317072 titled Compact solid state laser which are incorporated herein by reference. In some such embodiments the first frequency doubler non linear crystal is different than the second frequency doubler non linear crystal. Other embodiments use PPKTP periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate or PPSLT that are quasi phasematched. In other embodiments lithium borate LBO used in a non critically phasematched configuration and operated at rather a high temperature of about 280 degrees C. for generating wavelengths about 485 nm or bismuth borate BiBO used in a critically phasematched configuration are used for the frequency quadrupling operation.

In some embodiments the blue output beam is used for the underwater communications imaging or LIDAR applications shown in and or in other embodiments the blue light output beam s is are used for any other suitable purpose such as various medical purposes. In some embodiments intermediate beam includes up to 5000 watt pulses up to 10 watts continuous or more and up to 25 percent or more of the intermediate beam is converted to blue light of output beam resulting in blue light output of up to 1250 watts peak up to 2.5 watts continuous or more.

In some embodiments the ring laser output beam is focused by lens into wavelength conversion device in some embodiments a frequency quadrupler that quadruples the frequency and thus quarters the wavelength of the light from infrared at 1880 nm to blue at 470 nm and its output is collimated by lens to form output beam . In some embodiments a wavelength selective dichroic mirror not shown is used in the output beam to pass the converted wavelengths and block any residual infrared wavelengths.

In some embodiments the high power pulsed infrared intermediate beam is frequency quadrupled from 1880 nm IR to 470 nm blue as described above for using blue module . In some embodiments the blue output beam is used for the underwater communications imaging or LIDAR applications shown in and or in other embodiments the blue light output beam s is are used for any other suitable purpose such as possible medical purposes.

In some embodiments intermediate beam includes up to 5000 watt pulses up to 10 watts continuous or more and up to 50 percent or more of the intermediate beam is converted to blue light resulting in blue light output of up to 2500 watts peak up to 5 watts continuous or more.

In some embodiments blue module includes one or more dichroic mirrors not shown on output beam that are used to remove unconverted IR pump light from power amplifier and or to add an optional auxiliary signal beam that is inserted to be co axial with the output beam e.g. in some embodiments the auxiliary signal beam is generated by a low power continuous wave semiconductor diode laser with a wavelength that is substantially different from the wavelength of converted blue pulsed beam such that output beam includes the blue pulsed beam co axially aligned with the auxiliary signal beam such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 053 551 filed on Mar. 21 2008 titled HIGH POWER PULSED RING FIBER OSCILLATOR AND METHOD which is incorporated herein by reference and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 876 803 on Jan. 25 2011 .

In some embodiments the present invention provides high power blue output pulses that can be used to remove paint machine via holes small holes in electronic substrates or printed circuit boards PCBs metal and or semiconductor annealing laser welding semiconductor memory repair e.g. opening metal lines to connect and or disconnect spare sections of memory for other sections that have errors thus increasing the yield of usable chips in memory manufacture laser trimming of precision resistors e.g. for analog to digital converters and digital to analog converters other materials processing and or the like.

Some embodiments include a materials processing system having one or more of the laser systems described herein that is used to provide the laser energy for the materials processing operation.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method that includes optically pumping a fiber ring laser having a beam path forming a first signal beam in the beam path of the fiber ring laser Q switching the first signal beam and extracting an intermediate output beam from the first beam. In some embodiments this first signal beam is a first free space signal beam. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam is frequency quadrupled to generate a frequency quadrupled beam.

In some embodiments the intermediate output beam any of the embodiments of the present invention described herein has a wavelength in a range of 1800 nm to 2000 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 450 nm to 500 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1801 nm to 1820 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 450.25 nm to 455 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1821 nm to 1840 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 455.25 nm to 460 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1841 nm to 1860 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 460.25 nm to 465 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1861 nm to 1880 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 465.25 nm to 470 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1870 nm to 1890 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 467.5 nm to 472.5 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1881 nm to 1900 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 470.25 nm to 475 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1901 nm to 1920 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 475.25 nm to 480 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1921 nm to 1940 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 480.25 nm to 485 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1941 nm to 1960 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 485.25 nm to 490 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1961 nm to 1980 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 490.25 nm to 495 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1981 nm to 2000 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 495.25 nm to 500 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 2001 nm to 2040 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 500.25 nm to 510 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 2041 nm to 2080 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 510.25 nm to 520 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 2081 nm to 2120 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 520.25 nm to 530 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 2121 nm to 2160 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 530.25 nm to 540 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 2161 nm to 2200 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 540.25 nm to 550 nm inclusive.

In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength in a range of 1600 nm to 1800 nm inclusive and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength in a range of 400 nm to 450 nm inclusive. In some embodiments the intermediate output beam has a wavelength longer than 2200 nm and the frequency quadrupled beam has a wavelength longer than 550 nm.

In some embodiments the frequency quadrupled beam is pulsed and the pulses are modulated e.g. via varying the timing and or width of the pulses with encoded data and the encoded beam is transmitted through water to communicate the data between two platforms such as an underwater vessel and another vehicle. In some embodiments the frequency quadrupled beam is focussed and directed in a particular direction in order to increase the signal and or the signal to noise ratio at the receiving destination platform.

Some embodiments further include opto isolating the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring.

Some embodiments further include filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring.

In some embodiments the Q switching is electronically controlled. In some such embodiments a timing of a pulse is determined by the electronically controlled Q switcher. In some embodiments the Q switching includes using a Pockels cell. In some embodiments the Q switching includes using a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell.

Some embodiments further include polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell.

In some embodiments the extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter.

Some embodiments further include rotating a direction of polarization by an empirically determined amount on both of two sides of the output polarizing beam splitter.

In some embodiments the opto isolating of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization.

Some embodiments further include wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

Some embodiments further include opto isolating the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser wherein the Q switching includes using a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell wherein the extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the opto isolating of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a fiber ring laser having a signal beam path the fiber ring laser including an optically pumped polarization maintaining PM gain fiber that forms a portion of the signal beam path a pump port configured to guide pump light into the gain fiber fiber end optics at each of two ends of the gain fiber the fiber end optics forming a free space portion of the signal beam path a Q switch in the free space signal beam path and extraction optics configured to obtain an intermediate output beam from the free space beam.

Some embodiments further include an opto isolator in the signal beam path configured to limit the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring.

Some embodiments further include a wavelength filter in the free space portion of the signal beam path configured to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring.

Some embodiments further include two polarizers in the free space portion of the signal beam path on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell to linearly polarize the signal beam on the two sides of the RTP Pockels cell.

Some embodiments further include a half wave plate in the free space portion of the signal beam path on each of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter.

Some embodiments further include a wavelength converting device optically coupled to receive the intermediate output beam and to convert a wavelength of the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from the wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes means for optically pumping a fiber ring laser having a beam path means for forming a free space signal beam in the beam path of the fiber ring laser means for Q switching the free space signal beam and means for extracting an intermediate output beam from the free space beam.

Some embodiments further include means for opto isolating the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring.

Some embodiments further include means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring.

In some embodiments the means for Q switching includes a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell.

Some embodiments further include means for polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell.

In some embodiments the means for extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes a polarizing beam splitter.

Some embodiments further include means for rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter.

In some embodiments the means for opto isolating of the signal beam is located between the two rotators of the direction of polarization.

Some embodiments further include means for wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

Some embodiments further include means for opto isolating the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring wherein the Q switching includes using an optical amplitude modulator means for polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization wherein the means for extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes a polarizing beam splitter means for rotating a direction of polarization on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein means for the opto isolating of the signal beam is between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and means for wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

In some embodiments one or more of the gain fiber s of each embodiment includes a photonic crystal fiber PCF or photonic crystal rod PCR . In some such embodiments the PCF or PCR is polarization maintaining PM . In some embodiments one or more of the gain fiber s of each embodiment includes a large mode area LMA fiber e.g. in some embodiments the mode field diameter in the fiber is larger than about 12 microns while in other embodiments the mode field diameter in the fiber is larger than about 25 microns the mode field diameter in the fiber is larger than about 50 microns the mode field diameter in the fiber is larger than about 75 microns or the mode field diameter in the fiber is larger than about 100 microns . In some such embodiments the LMA fiber is polarization maintaining PM . In some embodiments the LMA fiber has a numerical aperture NA of no more than about 0.15 while in other embodiments the LMA fiber has an NA of no more than about 0.12 the LMA fiber has an NA of no more than about 0.10 the LMA fiber has an NA of no more than about 0.08 or the LMA fiber has an NA of no more than about 0.06.

In some embodiments the amplified IR output beams either from a power oscillator or from a MOPA include pulses of at least 5 kW and an average power of at least 10 W. Some embodiments use a plurality of gain stages which in some embodiments are each separated by an isolator a one way optical element to prevent backward traveling light and or a narrowband filter to reduce amplifier spontaneous emission ASE and or clean up the signal pulses . In some embodiments one or more of the power amplifier stages use a photonic crystal fiber PCF or photonic crystal rod PCR as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 391 561 titled FIBER OR ROD BASED OPTICAL SOURCE FEATURING A LARGE CORE RARE EARTH DOPED PHOTONIC CRYSTAL DEVICE FOR GENERATION OF HIGH POWER PULSED RADIATION AND METHOD which issued Jun. 24 2008 and which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In some embodiments one or more of the power amplifier stages use a non photonic crystal fiber having a large mode area LMA that has a mode field diameter of at least about 12 microns while other embodiments use an LMA fiber that has a mode field diameter of at least about 20 microns an LMA fiber that has a mode field diameter of at least about 40 microns an LMA fiber that has a mode field diameter of at least about 60 microns an LMA fiber that has a mode field diameter of at least about 80 microns or an LMA fiber that has a mode field diameter of at least about 100 microns. In some embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 1 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 2.5 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 5 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 10 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 25 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 50 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 100 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 250 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 500 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 1000 kW. In other embodiments the amplified IR output beams include pulses of at least 10 kW and an average power of at least 20 W. In some of each of these embodiments the amplified IR output beam is polarized in some embodiments this polarization makes the non linear conversion to other wavelengths more efficient .

In some embodiments the wavelength conversion device includes apparatus and methods such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 471 705 titled ULTRAVIOLET LASER SYSTEM AND METHOD HAVING WAVELENGTH IN THE 200 NM RANGE which issued Dec. 30 2008 and which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In some embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 2.5 kW and an average power of at least 5 W. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 1.25 kW and an average power of at least 2.5 W. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 5 kW and an average power of at least 10 W. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 25 kW. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 50 kW. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 100 kW. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 250 kW. In other embodiments the wavelength converted beams include output pulses of at least 500 kW. In some of each of the above embodiments in this paragraph the wavelength converted beams include wavelengths that are one quarter the wavelength of the amplified IR output beams e.g. a wavelength converted wavelength of 470 nm if the IR wavelength is 1880 nm or other suitable IR wavelength that is four times the desired wavelength converted output wavelength . In some of each of the above embodiments in this paragraph the wavelength converted beams include wavelengths that are one third the wavelength of the amplified IR output beams e.g. a wavelength converted wavelength of about 475 nm if the IR wavelength is 1425 nm or other suitable IR wavelength that is three times the desired wavelength converted output wavelength wherein in some embodiments the 1425 nm IR laser beam or other suitable IR wavelength is generated using a cascaded Raman fiber laser . In some of each of the above embodiments in this paragraph the wavelength converted beams include wavelengths that are one quarter the wavelength of the amplified IR output beams e.g. a wavelength converted wavelength of 266 nm if the IR wavelength is 1064 nm . In some of each of the above embodiments in this paragraph the wavelength converted beams include wavelengths that are one fifth the wavelength of the amplified IR output beams e.g. a wavelength converted wavelength of about 400 nm if the IR wavelength is 2000 nm or 475 nm if the IR wavelength is 2375 nm or other suitable IR wavelength that is five times the desired wavelength converted output wavelength . In some of each of the above embodiments in this paragraph the wavelength converted beams include wavelengths that are one sixth the wavelength of the amplified IR output beams e.g. a wavelength converted wavelength of about 400 nm if the IR wavelength is 2400 nm or 475 nm if the IR wavelength is 2850 nm or other suitable IR wavelength that is six times the desired wavelength converted output wavelength .

In some embodiments one or more of the gain fiber s of each embodiment includes a single mode fiber SMF or a multi mode fiber MMF .

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method that includes providing a fiber gain medium configuring an optical signal path that extends through the fiber gain medium such that the optical path forms a ring laser having a signal beam optically pumping the fiber gain medium forming a free space signal beam in the optical signal path of the ring laser Q switching the free space signal beam outside the fiber and extracting from the free space signal beam an intermediate optical signal output beam having a first wavelength.

Some embodiments further include forcing a majority of the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser.

Some embodiments further include wavelength filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser.

In some embodiments the Q switching includes polarizing the signal beam rotating an angle of polarization of the polarized signal beam and again polarizing the polarization rotated signal beam.

Some embodiments further include preferentially amplifying signal light having a first linear polarization direction in the fiber gain medium.

In some embodiments the extracting of the intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter to split the free space signal beam into the intermediate optical signal output beam and a ring feedback signal beam.

Some embodiments further include rotating a direction of polarization of the signal beam by a non zero amount on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the non zero amount determines proportions of the intermediate optical signal output beam and the ring feedback signal beam.

In some embodiments the forcing of the majority of the signal beam to travel in a first direction is performed between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization.

Some embodiments further include frequency doubling the intermediate optical signal output beam to form a second signal output beam having a second wavelength that is one half of the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

Some embodiments further include forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser wherein the Q switching includes using a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell wherein the extracting of the intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the forcing of a majority of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and wavelength converting the intermediate optical signal output beam to a wavelength different from the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

Some embodiments further include forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser forming a free space signal beam in the ring laser filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser amplitude modulating the signal beam to form pulses polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization extracting the signal beam as an intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter rotating a direction of polarization on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the forcing of a majority of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and wavelength converting the intermediate optical signal output beam to a wavelength different from the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a ring laser that has an optical signal ring path and further has a signal beam that propagates in the ring laser the ring laser including an optically pumped gain fiber that forms a first portion of the optical signal ring path a pump port configured to guide pump light into the gain fiber fiber end optics at a first end of the gain fiber and fiber end optics at a second end of the gain fiber the first and second fiber end optics configured to form a free space second portion of the optical signal ring path between the first end and the second end of the gain fiber such that a free space signal beam propagates in the free space second portion of the optical signal ring path a Q switch in the free space second portion of the optical signal ring path and extraction optics configured to obtain an intermediate output beam from the free space signal beam.

Some embodiments further include a first optical component in the free space second portion of the optical signal ring path configured to force a majority of the free space signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser.

Some embodiments further include a wavelength filter located in the free space second portion of the optical signal ring path configured to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser.

In some embodiments the Q switch includes an electrical control configured to control a timing of signal pulses.

In some embodiments the Q switch further comprises a Pockels cell and a polarizer in the free space second portion of the optical signal ring path on each of two sides of the Pockets cell to linearly polarize the signal beam on the two sides of the Pockels cell.

Some embodiments further include a first half wave plate in the free space portion of the signal beam path on a first side of the polarizing beam splitter and a second half wave plate in the free space portion of the signal beam path on a first side of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the first and second half wave plates are adjustable to control a proportion of the free space signal beam that is output and to align a polarization of a ring feedback signal beam to that of the gain fiber.

Some embodiments further include a wavelength converting device optically coupled to receive the intermediate output beam and to convert a wavelength of the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from the wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a fiber gain medium that is configured to form a first portion of an optical signal ring path that extends through the fiber gain medium such that the optical signal ring path forms a ring laser having a signal beam means as described herein for optically pumping the fiber gain medium means as described herein for forming a free space signal beam in the optical signal ring path means as described herein for Q switching the free space signal beam and means as described herein for extracting an intermediate output beam from the free space signal beam.

Some embodiments further include means for forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser.

Some embodiments further include means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser.

In some embodiments the means for Q switching is configured to pass light based on an electrical control signal.

Some embodiments further include a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell and means for polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of a RTP Pockels cell.

In some embodiments the means for extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes means for polarizing beam splitter.

Some embodiments further include means for rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter.

In some embodiments the means for Q switching includes means for passing light based on an electrical control signal wherein the means for extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes means for polarizing beam splitter wherein the gain fiber is a polarization maintaining PM gain fiber and wherein the apparatus further includes means for forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser and means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser.

Some embodiments further include means for wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

Some embodiments further include means for opto isolating the signal beam to travel only in a single direction around the ring means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring wherein the Q switching includes using a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell means for polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell wherein the extracting of the intermediate output beam from the free space beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter means for rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the opto isolating of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and means for wavelength converting the intermediate output beam to a wavelength different from a wavelength of the intermediate output beam.

Some embodiments of the apparatus described herein further include a materials processing unit operably coupled to receive laser output energy from one or more of the ring laser systems and or wavelength conversion devices and configured to use the laser output energy for materials processing functions.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a method that includes providing a fiber gain medium optically pumping the fiber gain medium outputting a laser signal as an intermediate optical signal output beam having a first wavelength from the fiber gain medium frequency quadrupling the intermediate optical signal output beam to form a frequency quadrupled optical signal and transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal through water such as seawater. Some embodiments further include encoding the laser signal with data to be communicated through the water. In some such embodiments the transmitting of the signal is between two ships at least one of which is a submarine.

Some embodiments further include detecting a light signal caused by light interaction of the frequency quadrupled signal with a thermocline in the water and processing the detected light signal to derive image information. Some embodiments further include displaying the image information on a monitor.

Some embodiments further include pulsing the laser signal detecting a light signal from one or more light interactions of the incident frequency quadrupled signal with anomalies in the water e.g. scattering reflections dispersion and or the like and processing the detected light signal to derive image information. In some such embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled signal further includes scanning the transmitted frequency quadrupled signal across a range of angles in order to detect three dimensional 3D image information. Some embodiments further include displaying the 3D image information on a 3D monitor. In some such embodiments the 3D monitor includes a head mounted visual display device for a person the display having separate displays for each eye of the person. In some embodiments the 3D monitor includes a large screen LCD screen that alternates display frames for the left eye of a viewer with display frames for the right eye of the viewer as is well known in the art. In some embodiments the 3D monitor includes a large screen LCD screen that presents display frames for the left eye of a viewer with a first polarization and simultaneously presents frames for the right eye of the viewer with a different second polarization such that the 3D information can be viewed by a plurality of persons using polarized optics e.g. polarized glasses having a vertical polarization over the left eye and horizontal polarization over the right eye or vice versa .

In some embodiments the frequency quadrupling of the intermediate optical signal output beam further includes frequency doubling the intermediate optical signal output beam to form a second optical signal output beam having a second wavelength that is one half of the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam and frequency doubling the second optical signal output beam to form the frequency quadrupled optical signal beam having a third wavelength that is one half of the second wavelength of the second optical signal output beam.

In some embodiments the fiber gain medium is arranged as a ring laser and the method further includes forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser forming a free space signal beam in the ring laser filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser Q switching the signal using a rubidium titanyl phosphate RTP Pockels cell polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization on each of two sides of the RTP Pockels cell extracting the laser signal as an intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter rotating a direction of polarization by 90 degrees on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the forcing of a majority of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and wavelength converting the intermediate optical signal output beam to a wavelength different from the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

In some embodiments the fiber gain medium is arranged as a ring laser and the method further includes forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser forming a free space signal beam in the ring laser filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser amplitude modulating the signal beam to form pulses polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization extracting the signal beam as an intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter rotating a direction of polarization on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the forcing of a majority of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and wavelength converting the intermediate optical signal output beam to a wavelength different from the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

Some embodiments further include using the frequency quadrupled output beam for communications through seawater. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a surface vehicle. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from an aircraft. In some such embodiments the aircraft is an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV . In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a satellite or other platform located at least 100 kilometers from a water surface. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a satellite or other platform located at least 200 kilometers from a water surface. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a satellite or other platform located at least 300 kilometers from a water surface. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from an underwater stationary device tethered to a sea bottom. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a floating buoy. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from a manned underwater vehicle such as a submarine. In some embodiments the transmitting of the frequency quadrupled optical signal is performed from an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV .

Some embodiments further include using the frequency quadrupled output beam for imaging through seawater.

Some embodiments further include using the frequency quadrupled output beam to illuminate underwater features and detecting and processing reflected light from the frequency quadrupled output beam to form image data. In some embodiments the method further includes displaying the image data on a monitor.

Some embodiments further include using the frequency quadrupled output beam for detection and ranging of underwater bodies including submarines or other underwater vehicles fish or marine mammals. This is also called light distancing and ranging LIDAR . In some embodiments this is done from an aircraft surface vessel or submerged vessel.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a high power infrared laser outputting a laser signal having a first wavelength between 1800 nm and 2000 nm as an intermediate optical signal output beam a data encoder operably coupled to encode data on the intermediate optical signal output beam a frequency quadrupler operably coupled to receive the encoded intermediate optical signal output beam and to form a frequency quadrupled optical signal and a beam transmitter operably coupled to transmit the frequency quadrupled optical signal through water. In other embodiments the data encoder is instead configured to encode data on a frequency doubled beam obtained by frequency doubling the intermediate optical signal output beam before the data is imposed on the beam. In other embodiments the data encoder is instead configured to encode data on a frequency quadrupled beam obtained by frequency doubling and frequency doubling again the intermediate optical signal output beam before the data is imposed on the beam. In some embodiments the initial e.g. Tm doped fiber laser used to generate the intermediate IR signal uses a master oscillator power amplifier MOPA configuration that uses a seed laser beam from a semiconductor laser that is amplified by one or more Tm doped fiber amplifiers. In other embodiments the initial laser or the seed laser if the initial laser uses a MOPA configuration is a Q switched or cavity dumped ring fiber laser. In yet other embodiments the seed source includes a distributed feedback DFB laser diode a distributed Bragg reflector DBR diode or a laser diode externally stabilized with a fiber Bragg grating or with a volume Bragg grating.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a high power infrared laser outputting a laser signal having a first wavelength between 1800 nm and 2000 nm as an intermediate optical signal output beam a pulse generator or a pulse modulator operably coupled to pulse the intermediate optical signal output beam a frequency quadrupler operably coupled to receive the pulsed intermediate optical signal output beam and to form a frequency quadrupled optical signal a beam transmitter operably coupled to transmit the frequency quadrupled optical signal through water and a light detector and processor configured to detect and process a sensed light signal from light interactions of the incident light signal with anomalies in the water e.g. scattering reflections or the like from the transmitted frequency quadrupled optical signal to generate 3D image data.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus that includes a fiber gain medium means for optically pumping the fiber gain medium means for outputting a laser signal as an intermediate optical signal output beam having a first wavelength from the fiber gain medium means for frequency quadrupling the intermediate optical signal output beam to form a frequency quadrupled optical signal and means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal.

Some embodiments further include means for encoding the laser signal with data to be communicated through the water.

In some embodiments the means for transmitting of the signal is arranged to communicate data between two ships at least one of which is a submarine.

Some embodiments further include means for pulsing the laser signal means for detecting from the water a light signal caused by light interaction of the frequency quadrupled signal and means for processing the detected light signal to derive image information. In some such embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled signal further includes means for scanning the transmitted frequency quadrupled signal across a range of angles in order to detect three dimensional 3D image information.

In some embodiments the means for frequency quadrupling the intermediate optical signal output beam further includes means for frequency doubling the intermediate optical signal output beam to form a second optical signal output beam having a second wavelength that is one half of the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam and means for frequency doubling the second optical signal output beam to form the frequency quadrupled optical signal beam having a third wavelength that is one half of the second wavelength of the second optical signal output beam.

In some embodiments the fiber gain medium is arranged as a ring laser the apparatus further comprising means for forcing the signal beam to travel in a first direction around the ring laser means for forming a free space signal beam in the ring laser means for filtering the signal beam to limit a linewidth of the signal beam in the ring laser means for amplitude modulating the signal polarizing the signal beam to a linear polarization means for extracting the signal beam as an intermediate optical signal output beam from the free space signal beam includes using a polarizing beam splitter means for rotating a direction of polarization on both of two sides of the polarizing beam splitter wherein the forcing of a majority of the signal beam is done between the two rotatings of the direction of polarization and means for wavelength converting the intermediate optical signal output beam to a wavelength different from the first wavelength of the intermediate optical signal output beam.

Some embodiments further include means for communicating through seawater using the frequency quadrupled output beam. In some such embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from a surface vehicle. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from an aircraft. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from a satellite located at least 100 kilometers from a water surface. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from an underwater stationary device tethered to a sea bottom. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from a floating buoy. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from a manned underwater vehicle. In some embodiments the means for transmitting the frequency quadrupled optical signal operates from an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV .

Some embodiments further include means for imaging through seawater using the frequency quadrupled output beam.

Some embodiments further include means for illuminating underwater features using the frequency quadrupled output beam and means for detecting and processing reflected light from the frequency quadrupled output beam to form an image.

Some embodiments further include for detection and ranging of underwater bodies using the frequency quadrupled output beam.

Some embodiments further include means for imaging disturbances in the thermocline using the frequency quadrupled output beam.

As used herein the term light interaction includes any change in the direction wavelength phase spectrum dispersion polarization intensity and or other physical property of a propagating light signal it includes both static and dynamic scattering of an incident light signal due to any anomaly including atoms molecules changes in index of refraction such as might be caused by a thermocline the region of relatively abrupt temperature change that resides between the upper mixed layer of water above and the deep ocean water below or halocline abrupt change in salinity microscopic life or inanimate dust particles or by macroscopic bodies such as fish mammals arthropods and the like by underwater objects or underwater vehicles such as a submarine or by the underwater landscape such as sand or underwater mountains on the sea bottom . Because it includes any change in the direction of a propagating light signal the term light interaction as used herein includes what might otherwise be called reflection. Because it also includes any change in the wavelength phase spectrum or polarization of a propagating light signal the term light interaction as used herein includes what might otherwise be called fluorescence changes in the apparent distance of propagation absorption such as by atomic or molecular species that selectively absorb more or less of various incident wavelengths changes in polarization or other linear or non linear effect on the light signal. These changes arise from 1 the spatial coherence properties of the incident light 2 the frequency dependence of the potential due to dispersion of the medium and 3 frequency dependence of the free space Green function see Emil Wolf Theory of Coherence and Polarization of light Cambridge University Press New York 2007 pages 111 128 which is incorporated herein by reference . The detection of a light interaction can be by a light sensor that is located close to the light source e.g. for detecting reflections or scattering of the light signal or of a wavelength or polarization change to the light signal back toward its source or by a light sensor that is located off to a side of the direction of propagation of the incident light source for detecting reflections or scattering or of a wavelength or polarization change to the light signal of the light signal in a direction other than back toward its source or toward the same direction as the initial direction of the light signal or by a light sensor located distal and in the same direction as the initial direction of the light signal for detecting changes to intensity wavelength or polarization due to objects located along a straight line between the source and the sensor .

As used herein an anomaly in the water means any change in the presence or relative abundances of atoms or molecules changes in index of refraction such as might be caused by a thermocline or abrupt change in salinity microscopic life or inanimate dust particles or by macroscopic bodies such as fish mammals arthropods and the like by underwater objects or underwater vehicles such as a submarine or by the underwater landscape such as sand or underwater mountains on the sea bottom . In some embodiments the light interaction of the signal beam with the water surface a surface signal due e.g. to reflection or scattering provides a reference signal e.g. time of flight from which other interactions with anomalies in the water submarines disturbances to the thermocline halocline sea bottom or other anomalies are measured with reference to. In some embodiments this surface signal is subtracted from other received light interaction signal to obtain an improved signal to noise ratio of the signal used to derive image data. In some embodiments the time of flight differences between the various intensity or wavelength phase spectrum or polarization features of the sensed signal from the light interaction of the incident light with the various anomalies in the water are used to generate three dimensional image data which can then be either automatically analyzed to detect an object of interest such as a submarine or displayed in various forms e.g. false color contour lines or a rotatable image with simulated reflection or shading to show surfaces or interfaces or other convenient form for visual interpretation by a human user .

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Although numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments as described herein have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments many other embodiments and changes to details will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

