---

title: Bandwidth allocation management
abstract: Bandwidth allocation management includes determining current available bandwidth of a network within which a computer system is operating. The bandwidth allocation management also includes using the current available bandwidth and applied feature delivery settings to determine an adjustment in feature delivery to the computer system. At least a portion of the feature delivery settings is specified by an end user of the computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258231&OS=09258231&RS=09258231
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09258231
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100908
---
The present invention relates to computer networking and more specifically to adaptive configurable feature delivery in a computer network environment.

Social networking sites such as Facebook and LinkedIn goal oriented sites such as Match.com and eDiets.com as well as internal business networks e.g. Intranet portals provide the ability for individuals to associate and or collaborate with other individuals over a network. These and other networking sites typically involve a community of users who share some common purpose e.g. business professional social and or goal oriented .

As technology advances e.g. with respect to rich multi media applications competition among available resources e.g. bandwidth and memory often results. Consequently there is becoming a greater need to manage and when possible conserve these finite resources. As consumers demand more and more content higher definition services interactive services and data services existing network infrastructures have become concerned with the increasing burden of providing adequate bandwidth to meet these demands.

During an active Internet browsing session packets associated with various content sources are transmitted streamed to an end user device. These packets are assigned some priority value which in turn determines the amount of bandwidth to be allocated to these packets. Video audio packets consume substantial amounts of bandwidth when a user requests a page resource that has video effects embedded therein. In order to provide maximum performance these types of packets are typically assigned a greater priority.

Oftentimes a computer system runs multiple applications that share available system resources such as memory and bandwidth. When a number of full featured applications are simultaneously running the overall system performance may be hampered as a result of the finite amount of available resources. In such cases even basic operations make take more time than desired to complete thereby wasting the system user s valuable time.

Many applications provide much of their functionality as small plug ins which get loaded at runtime or which may be activated only when some action is taken. Even if the plug in is activated upon the occurrence of some action a corresponding user interface and underlying framework supporting the plug in still consumes a considerable amount of resources and which makes the application heavy. 

An always on widget e.g. instant messenger is one example of wasted bandwidth. For example an always on chat widget with video chat feature receives content even if the user will be not be watching it. When the widget remains fully equipped with all features despite its lack of use it unnecessarily consumes bandwidth. While some sites offer a light version for users with low bandwidth Internet access this solution offers no user discretion over what features will go into the light version. In addition this solution does not provide for the enablement or disablement of features based upon the current needs of the system user.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method for bandwidth allocation management is provided. The method includes determining current available bandwidth of a network within which a computer system is operating. The method also includes using the current available bandwidth and applied feature delivery settings to determine an adjustment in feature delivery to the computer system. At least a portion of the feature delivery settings is specified by an end user of the computer system.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for bandwidth allocation management is provided. The system includes a computer processor and a bandwidth allocation management application executing on the computer processor. The bandwidth allocation management application implements a method. The method includes determining current available bandwidth of a network within which a computer system is operating. The method also includes using the current available bandwidth and applied feature delivery settings to determine an adjustment in feature delivery to the computer system. At least a portion of the feature delivery settings is specified by an end user of the computer system.

According to a further embodiment of the present invention a computer program product for bandwidth allocation management is provided. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium having instructions embodied thereon. The instructions are executed by a computer processor for implementing a method. The method includes determining current available bandwidth of a network within which a computer system is operating. The method also includes using the current available bandwidth and applied feature delivery settings to determine an adjustment in feature delivery to the computer system. At least a portion of the feature delivery settings is specified by an end user of the computer system.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention provide bandwidth allocation management. The bandwidth allocation management provides the ability to enhance an end user s network computing experience by managing feature delivery over bandwidth constrained networks. The bandwidth allocation management dynamically formulates priority control policies and alters priority assignments on a packet level or stream level based upon various criteria and conditions that affect bandwidth usage and system performance. In an exemplary embodiment a feature or widget refers to a portable block of software code that is configured for use with one or more applications and provides some specified functionality to these applications. For example a widget may be a communications tool chat instant messenger etc. . The bandwidth allocation management considers historical interactions of a system user with other members of the user s social or business network as well as device capabilities of the system user s social network and peer devices. The bandwidth allocation management not only allows system users to provide input as to feature delivery preferences but also provides suggestions to configure such feature delivery based on configurations being used by members of the user s network. These and other features of the bandwidth allocation management are described further herein.

With reference now to an exemplary system upon which the bandwidth allocation management services may be implemented will now be described. The system of includes a community of user systems in communication with a host system over one or more networks . The host system executes computer instructions for performing the bandwidth allocation management services described herein. The host system is also communicatively coupled to a storage device .

The user systems each represent computer processing devices through which users at one or more geographic locations may contact the host system . As shown in the user systems may be coupled to the host system via network s . Each user system may be implemented using a general purpose computer executing a computer program for carrying out the processes described herein. The user systems may be personal computers e.g. a lap top a personal digital assistant or host attached terminals. While shown in as desktop devices it will be understood that other types of end user devices may be employed. For example in one exemplary embodiment one or more of the user systems may be mobile devices such as a cellular telephone. The processing described herein may be shared by a user system and the host system e.g. by providing an applet to the user system .

The network s may be any type of known networks including but not limited to a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a global network e.g. Internet a virtual private network VPN and an intranet. The network may be implemented using a wireless network e.g. cellular satellite etc. or any kind of physical network implementation known in the art. A user system may be coupled to the host system through multiple networks e.g. intranet and Internet so that not all user systems are coupled to the host system through the same network. One or more of the user systems and the host system may be connected to the network in a wireless fashion. In one embodiment the network is an intranet and one or more user systems execute a user interface application e.g. a web browser to contact the host system through the network . In another exemplary embodiment one or more of the user systems is connected directly i.e. not through the network to the host system and the host system is connected directly to or contains the storage device .

The storage device includes a data repository with data relating to facilitating the bandwidth allocation management services and may be implemented using a variety of devices for storing electronic information. It is understood that the storage device may be implemented using memory contained in the host system or that it may be a separate physical device e.g. as shown in . The storage device is logically addressable as a consolidated data source across a distributed environment that includes network s . Information stored in the storage device may be retrieved and manipulated via the host system and or via the user systems .

The data repository includes one or more databases containing documents files and related data in support of the bandwidth allocation management services. In an exemplary embodiment the storage device stores registries user system settings and user history information. The system stores registries which in turn maintains corresponding version executables that may be used to determine adjustments to priorities of various features or widgets as will be described further herein. The user history information may be obtained from various system logs such as email past usage of a widget or feature roles and responsibilities of users within a team or group.

The host system depicted in may be implemented using one or more servers operating in response to a computer program stored in a storage medium accessible by the server. The host system may operate as a network server e.g. a web server to communicate with the user systems . The host system handles sending and receiving information to and from the user systems and can perform associated tasks.

The host system may also operate as an application server. The host system executes one or more computer programs to provide the bandwidth allocation management services. As shown in the host system executes a bandwidth allocation management application for implementing the bandwidth allocation management services described herein. Processing may be shared by the user systems and the host system by providing an application e.g. java applet to the user systems . Alternatively the user systems can include stand alone software applications for performing a portion or all of the processing described herein. As previously described it is understood that separate servers may be utilized to implement the network server functions and the application server functions. Alternatively the network server and the application server may be implemented by a single server executing computer programs to perform the requisite functions. For purposes of illustration the host system is described herein as a business enterprise server that provides a business oriented network portal e.g. Intranet for members of the business enterprise e.g. user systems A .

As shown in the user systems collectively form a community of users of the bandwidth allocation management services. As indicated above for purposes of illustration the user systems A represent users who are members or employees of a business enterprise serviced via the host system . Each of the users of user systems A may be assigned various roles and responsibilities with respect to the business goals adopted by the business enterprise of host system . As shown in the user systems may execute applications such as for example a web browser a word processing application communications applications e.g. email instant messaging video conferencing etc. etc.

In one embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application provides a user interface that enables users to provide input to the bandwidth allocation management services as described further herein.

In one exemplary embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application provides the user interface to enable each individual user of user systems A to customize the feature delivery options provided by the bandwidth allocation management services. In an alternative embodiment bandwidth allocation management application may be implemented at a system administration level to provide the functionality of the bandwidth allocation management services without the individual input of user systems A . For example the bandwidth allocation management configurable options may be established at a system administrator level for the users of user systems A . In yet a further embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application may be implemented as a default process in which the bandwidth allocation management application dynamically evaluates system capabilities e.g. system resource availability and intelligently determines and adjusts feature delivery with no input from within the user community or may suggest such adjustments to the user community prior to implementation.

Turning now to an exemplary user interface screen flow diagram and output user interface screen respectively will now be described in an exemplary embodiment. The processes described in assume that a user system has accessed the network and has become online. The processes described in further assume that the user system has pre defined custom configuration settings for the bandwidth allocation management services via the user interface screen . However it will be understood that the exemplary bandwidth allocation management services are not so limited. For example the bandwidth allocation management application may provide the user interface screen to the user system during any point in the user system s online session. Alternatively the bandwidth allocation management application may provide the user system with the ability to enable or disable the bandwidth allocation management services via the user interface screen e.g. enable option and disable option . In a further embodiment the user system may be provided with the ability to select a default option which causes the bandwidth allocation management application to intelligently perform the bandwidth allocation management service functionality described herein without input by the user system . However as indicated above the processes described in assume that the user system has pre configured at least a portion of the bandwidth allocation management services through selection of a custom option in the user interface screen of .

The processes described in further assume that once the user system has accessed the network and one or more applications the bandwidth allocation management application determines the current bandwidth properties e.g. available bandwidth . If the bandwidth availability is determined to be sufficient to load all features or widgets of the portal or the Web application in the accepted response time in one embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application determines the current network state of the user system e.g. which applications currently being accessed and permits each of these widgets or features to be loaded to the user system . However if the bandwidth availability is determined to be constrained in one exemplary embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application switches to an optimization mode and performs the functions described in steps herein.

At step the bandwidth allocation management application accesses the feature delivery settings e.g. user system settings stored in storage device pre configured by the user system . These pre configured settings are shown in . For example once the user system selects the custom option a window is presented for guiding the user system through bandwidth optimization mode selections. The particular options shown in window are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting in scope. As shown in window a user system may select a minimal feature version which causes the bandwidth allocation management application to limit or adjust delivery loading of features or widgets for one or more applications running on the user system . For example if the user system selects the minimal feature version for a given application the bandwidth allocation management application will disable a built in chat feature of the application when it determines that the current bandwidth properties reflect that the user system is operating at less than 5 kilobytes per second kbps . In one embodiment this may be implemented by downloading a light version of the application i.e. one of applications of .

Also as shown in the window of the user system may otherwise select a medium feature version or a maximum feature version . The medium feature version is effectuated when the user system is operating at greater than or equal to 5 kbps but less than 10 kbps. Likewise the maximum feature version is effectuated when the user system is operating at greater than or equal to 10 kbps. In addition the bandwidth allocation management application user interface further provides the user system with the ability to more finely tune the configurable options and by selecting among various features provided by the applications for which adjustments may be implemented in terms of reducing or conserving bandwidth. As shown e.g. in window the user system may select from features such as mail instant messaging calendar and other . These features are shown in for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting in scope. It will be understood that any features of an application widgets plug ins etc. may be configured for adjustment via the bandwidth allocation management services described herein in order to realize the advantages of the exemplary embodiments.

As indicated above in one alternative embodiment of the invention the bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to present the user interface screen to the user system at any time during execution of an application on the network . In this embodiment the user system may be provided with the ability to dynamically select from options or modify pre configured options as the bandwidth availability of the network system or individual user systems change over time.

In an exemplary embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application may further consider past behavior e.g. patterns of feature usage non usage of the user system and or user system peers e.g. user systems B when the user is operating user system A as well as the current state of the user systems in determining when or whether to adjust delivery of features or widgets in order to manage or conserve existing bandwidth at step . As indicated above the host system of stores user history information e.g. log files of activities conducted over time by the user systems . For example suppose that user system A primarily communicates with two user systems B and and has never used a video chat feature with user system but often uses the video chat feature with user system B. In assessing the current state of the network as described above the bandwidth allocation management application determines that user system is currently online and user system B is currently offline. The bandwidth allocation management application may use this current state of the network i.e. user system B offline and user system online in conjunction with the user system s A past history i.e. lack of video chat communications with user system to disable the video chat feature of the messaging application during the user system s A active session. However the bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to monitor the current state of the network and should the user system B become online the bandwidth allocation management application may determine an adjustment to load the video chat feature for the messaging application with respect to the user system A. The online status of user systems may be determined e.g. via interrupts generated either manually or automatically by the system policy settings. In a further example suppose the user system has 100 friends peer computer systems out of which 20 are visible on the user system s messenger application. Assume e.g. that out of these 20 users 10 are in a busy state or do not disturb mode and the remaining 10 peer computers are not equipped with a web cam or do not have bandwidth at their end of the network to provision a video chat. The application may be configured to identify this network state and capabilities and prevent a video chat widget from loading onto the user system .

Based upon the above configurations network states and historical information the bandwidth allocation management application determines adjustments to feature delivery at step . As indicated above the adjustment may be to download a light version of a feature of an application e.g. disable a feature . In one exemplary embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to automatically implement the adjustment at step or may be configured to provide a suggestion to the user system to implement the adjustment at step . As shown e.g. in the user interface includes a notification in a window that a video chat feature has not been downloaded with a messaging application due to the current statuses of online users. For example as shown in window four users are currently online Username1 and Username2 are shown to be in a busy state i.e. busy representing the users current unavailability to chat Username3 is shown e.g. via status icon as lacking video chat capability and Username4 is shown e.g. via status icon as having video chat capability that is rarely if ever used. The notification in window informs the user that the video chat widget was not downloaded to the messaging application. In one alternative embodiment this notification window may not be presented to the user rather the video chat widget is prevented from being downloaded without any further notice to the user in the event of a bandwidth constraint or in view of a desire to conserve unneeded bandwidth. By way of non limiting example the determination of whether an online user has such capabilities may be implemented e.g. by identifying the presence or absence of peripheral components of the online users that are needed to perform the features defined by the widget e.g. the absence of speakers indicates an inability of a user to conduct a voice chat .

In yet further embodiments of the present invention the bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to consider other criteria in determining whether or when to perform an adjustment to a feature delivery of an application. For example suppose that a user system s A calendar application e.g. one of applications indicates a scheduled meeting with another user system B on a specified date and time. Suppose the user system A accesses the network on that date and shortly before the scheduled meeting time. The bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to retrieve the user system s A calendar as well as the historical information e.g. recall in the above example that the user system A frequently communicates via online chat feature with user system B in evaluating whether to disable the video chat feature of the messaging application. Thus in this embodiment even if the bandwidth properties of the network reveal that the network bandwidth capabilities are constrained the bandwidth allocation management application may permit the download of the video chat feature in order to accommodate an anticipated need by the user system A during the current online session. Other examples of this functionality include e.g. a tasked item that requires sharing of a document or file a file sharing widget is loaded when the activity time approaches. Another example is where a user is scheduled to attend a video web conference at 11 00 a.m. the bandwidth allocation management application dynamically fetches audio and video sharing widgets as the scheduled time approaches. The information used in the criteria described above may be gleaned e.g. via a text search on the calendar entries or other system files using keywords and then determining which widget features a system user may require.

In yet a further embodiment the bandwidth allocation management application may be configured to examine the capabilities of peer user systems of a particular user system in determining what features to adjust e.g. disable enable during an online session for the particular user system. For example as indicated above if the user system e.g. system A uses a particular feature on a frequent basis however there is currently no other user system online that is configured with the capabilities required for that particular feature the bandwidth allocation management application may use this current state of the network to adjust e.g. disable the particular feature as its functionality would consume unnecessary resources without any added benefit to the user system A.

As indicated above the feature delivery determination and execution may be implemented by prioritizing packets corresponding to the particular feature subject to adjustment. The bandwidth allocation management application may utilize tuples to decide the loading priority. For example each feature or widget may be assigned an index on the portal of the network and a decision support system of the bandwidth allocation management application includes a set of conditions defined for each widget.

The server system e.g. host system queries the user system plug in to detect status of x y z conditions when the response is received the decision for each widget is calculated based on a formula defined for the widget e.g. FS will be loaded when either of x y z is true .

In the event that the widget the user requires is not loaded by the bandwidth allocation management application the user may simply type the keyword for the widget e.g. meeting calendar etc. in a search box not shown and the widget is fetched. Also the bandwidth allocation management application may be updated for the system based on subsequent user behavior as described in step . This intelligent adaptable and collaborative widget feature delivery system thus optimizes bandwidth usage and delivers best response time when most required in low strength networks.

The adjustments to priority levels of features in widgets may be handled via e.g. available application programming interface functions. Similar such mechanisms can be employed for use with the system which maintains different version executables and their information in its registry. Whenever a new application is to be started the system determines which executable of the application is to be loaded.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon .

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

