---

title: Adjustable armrest mechanism for a materials handling vehicle
abstract: An adjustable armrest mechanism is provided, which is adapted to be coupled to a vehicle frame. The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame, armrest apparatus movably coupled to the base such that the armrest apparatus moves relative to the control handle and pivots about a virtual pivot point in front of the control handle, and a locking device for releasably locking the armrest apparatus to the base in one of at least two positions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058052&OS=09058052&RS=09058052
owner: Crown Equipment Corporation
number: 09058052
owner_city: New Bremen
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 577 filed Oct. 25 2006 and entitled ADJUSTABLE ARMREST MECHANISM FOR A MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLE now U.S. Pat. No. 7 726 745 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 730 581 filed Oct. 27 2005 and entitled ADJUSTABLE ARMREST MECHANISM FOR A MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLE the entire disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a materials handling vehicle comprising an adjustable armrest mechanism adapted to accommodate a wide range of operator elbow and forearm positions.

It is known in the prior art to provide armrests in materials handling vehicles. For example U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004 0245038 A1 discloses an armrest provided with three separate armrest locations 40A 40C each corresponding to an operator of a different size. As illustrated in FIG. 4 of the published application armrest location 40B is spaced further away from an operator than armrest location 40A and armrest location 40C is spaced further away from an operator than armrest locations 40A and 40B. Hence a taller operator must lean further to the side to rest his elbow than a shorter operator.

It is also known to provide an armrest and control handle assembly which assembly is adjustable up and down along a linear path. This assembly is costly to manufacture due to the control handle moving with the armrest.

It is further known to provide a fixed armrest against which an operator may lean while driving a materials handling vehicle. However such an armrest is uncomfortable for shorter operators as they are required to raise their elbows and forearms too high to rest against the fixed armrest. A fixed armrest is also uncomfortable for taller operators as they are required to lean too much to one side such that their elbows and forearms contact the armrest.

An alternative armrest which allows for armrest adjustment to accommodate a wide range of operator elbow and forearm positions is desired.

The present invention relates to an armrest mechanism for a materials handling vehicle. In accordance with one embodiment the armrest mechanism comprises armrest apparatus capable of pivoting about a virtual pivot point located in front of the armrest mechanism and a control handle to be gripped by an operator s hand. The armrest mechanism further includes a pad with a contoured receiving surface that slopes downwardly towards the control handle. Hence operators of various heights may rest their elbow and forearm on the armrest mechanism after an appropriate adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected without being required to raise their elbow and forearm too high drop their elbow and forearm too low or lean too much to the side to contact the armrest apparatus. Also after an appropriate adjustment has been made to the armrest apparatus such that an operator is resting his her elbow and forearm comfortably on the armrest apparatus the operator s hand and forearm are substantially in line with one another i.e. the operator s wrist is not substantially flexed up or down when the operator s hand is gripping a control handle positioned in front of the armrest mechanism. Due to the overall configuration of the armrest mechanism the wrist of substantially all operators including short and tall operators after an appropriate armrest apparatus adjustment has been effected is positioned in an ergonomically neutral posture or position i.e. the wrist is not substantially flexed upward or downward when the operator is gripping the control handle.

In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention an adjustable armrest mechanism is provided coupled to a frame of a materials handling vehicle and spaced from a control handle also coupled to the vehicle frame. The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame and located a distance from the control handle an armrest apparatus movably coupled to the base and a locking device for releasably locking the armrest apparatus to the base in one of at least two positions. The armrest apparatus is movably coupled to the base so that after an adjustment has been made to the armrest apparatus to any one of at least two spaced apart positions such that an operator is resting his her elbow and forearm comfortably on the armrest apparatus the operator s wrist is located in a neutral position. An operator s wrist is considered to be located in a neutral position when his her wrist is not substantially flexed up or down when the operator s hand is gripping the control handle positioned in front of the armrest mechanism.

The armrest apparatus may comprise a mount structure including a side portion provided with at least one arc shaped slot and an upper portion and a pad positioned on the mount structure upper portion.

The base may comprise a support frame fixed to the vehicle frame and at least one guide member coupled to the support frame so as to remain in a fixed position on the support frame.

The guide member may extend into the arc shaped slot in the mount structure side portion such that the mount structure moves along an arc shaped path relative to the support frame. It is contemplated that the mount structure side portion may comprise two or more arc shaped slots and the base fixed to the vehicle frame may comprise two or more guide members each of which extends into a corresponding one of the two or more arc shaped slots in the mount structure side portion.

The locking device may comprise a lever and pawl structure pivotably coupled to the armrest apparatus and a biasing element for biasing the lever and pawl structure in a direction such that the pawl moves toward the rack.

The adjustable armrest mechanism may further comprise structure for applying a force to the armrest apparatus in a direction away from the base. The force applying structure may comprise a spring gas filled strut or like device positioned between the base and the armrest apparatus.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the armrest apparatus may comprise a mount structure including a side portion an upper portion and a tab and a pad positioned on the mount structure upper portion. The tab may be gripped by an operator to move the armrest apparatus relative to the base.

In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention an adjustable armrest mechanism is coupled to a frame of a materials handling vehicle and spaced from a control handle also coupled to the vehicle frame. The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame and located a distance from the control handle armrest apparatus pivotally coupled to the base such that the armrest apparatus pivots about a virtual pivot point located in front of the armrest apparatus the base and the control handle and a locking device for releasably locking the armrest apparatus to the base in one of at least two positions.

In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention an adjustable armrest mechanism is provided which is adapted to be coupled to a vehicle frame. The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame armrest apparatus movably coupled to the base such that the armrest apparatus moves relative to the base and a device spaced from an edge of the armrest apparatus for supporting the weight of the armrest apparatus and an operator s arm resting on the armrest apparatus. The device may comprise a locking device for releasably locking the armrest apparatus to the base in one of at least two positions.

The armrest apparatus may comprise a mount structure including a side portion provided with at least one non linear slot and an upper portion and a pad positioned on the mount structure upper portion. The upper portion may have outer side edges. Preferably the device is substantially centered between the upper portion outer side edges.

The present invention is described herein with reference to a stand up counterbalanced truck . It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention and variations of the invention can be more generally applied to a variety of other materials handling vehicles.

Reference is now made to which is a perspective view of the stand up counterbalanced fork lift truck . The fork lift truck comprises a main body comprising a frame first and second driven wheels coupled to a front portion of the frame only the first wheel is illustrated in and a third steerable wheel coupled to a rear portion of the frame . The first second and third wheels and allow the truck to move across a floor surface. The truck further comprises a mast assembly coupled to the main body frame and a fork carriage assembly coupled to the mast assembly see .

A rider compartment is located within the main body frame for receiving an operator see . Mounted within the rider compartment is a multifunction controller MFC and a tiller A. The speed and direction of movement forward or reverse of the truck can be controlled by the operator via the multifunction controller MFC. Steering is effected via the tiller A.

Mounted within the rider compartment is an operator s back rest . Adjacent to the back rest is an adjustable armrest mechanism constructed in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention see . The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame and an armrest apparatus movably coupled to the base . The base comprises a support frame A bolted welded or otherwise fixed to the main body frame see . The base further comprises first and second guide members A and B coupled to the support frame A so as to remain in a fixed position on the support frame A see . Each first and second guide member A B comprises a bolt A a flat washer B a first bushing guide C with a shoulder D facing away from the washer B a spacer E a second bushing guide F with a shoulder not shown facing toward the spacer E and a nut H see . The bushing guides C and F may be formed for example from a polymeric material. The bolt A flat washer B spacer E and nut H may be formed for example from a metal.

The armrest apparatus comprises in the illustrated embodiment a mount structure and a pad mounted on the mount structure see the pad is not illustrated in . The mount structure includes in the illustrated embodiment a first side portion or plate A provided with an arc shaped slot B and an upper portion or plate C. The pad may be formed from a polymeric material. The pad may be mounted to the mount structure upper portion C via screws. The arc shaped slot B may have a generally constant radius of from about 480 mm to about 720 mm and preferably about 600 mm.

In the illustrated embodiment the pad is formed with a contoured receiving surface A for receiving an operator s elbow E and forearm F see A C and . As is apparent from the pad has its greatest thickness at a rear portion B and its least thickness at a front portion C. Further the contoured receiving surface A slopes downward towards the multifunction controller MFC at an angle of about 6 degrees to horizontal i.e. 6 degrees to a substantially planar bottom surface of the pad .

As can be seen in the guide members A and B extend into the arc shaped slot B in the mount structure side portion A. For each guide member A B see the first bushing guide C is positioned facing an outer surface D of the mount structure side portion A such that the first bushing guide shoulder D contacts the outer surface D and an inner edge surface B of the slot B see . Also for each guide member A B the second bushing guide F is positioned facing an inner surface E of the mount structure side portion A such that the second bushing guide shoulder contacts the inner surface E and the inner edge surface B of the slot B see . A portion F of the mount structure side portion A defines the slot B see .

The armrest apparatus is capable of moving along an arc shaped path relative to the base due to the slot defining portion F of the mount structure side portion A engaging and moving relative to the stationary guide members A B. For example in the illustrated embodiment any given point on the armrest apparatus moves along an arc shaped path having a generally constant radius. It is contemplated that a top surface D of the pad may move through an angular range of from about 0 degree to about 20 degrees and preferably from about 6 degrees to about 18 degrees.

The armrest apparatus may be releasably locked in any one of a number of spaced apart positions relative to the base . In the armrest apparatus is shown located in a lowermost position which is a position that may be used by a short operator. In the armrest apparatus is shown located in an uppermost position which is a position that may be used by a tall operator. A locking device is provided for releasably locking the armrest apparatus in a selected position relative to the base . The locking device comprises a rack fixedly coupled to the base see . The rack is provided with a plurality of teeth A see . The locking device further comprises a lever and pawl structure pivotally mounted to the mount structure and a spring see . The lever and pawl structure comprises a gripping handle A a shaft B and a pawl C. The handle A shaft B and pawl C are integral with one another in the illustrated embodiment. The shaft B extends into an opening A in the mount structure first side portion A and an opening G in a second side portion G of the mount structure so as to allow the structure to pivot relative to the mount structure see . Appropriate elements such as spring biased clips B see not shown in and or like elements are used to maintain the shaft B mounted to the first and second side portions A and G. The spring engages the handle A and the mount structure second side portion G so as to bias the pawl C toward the rack see .

The locking device also functions to support the weight of the mount structure the pad and an operator s arm. Preferably the pawl C is substantially centered under the upper plate C between outer side edges A and B of the upper plate C see so that the combined weight of the operator s arm the mount structure and the pad is generally centrally supported by the locking device .

In the illustrated embodiment as the armrest apparatus moves along its arc shaped path relative to the base it is caused to pivot about a virtual pivot point Vlocated in front of the armrest apparatus the base and the multifunction controller MFC see . Due to the downwardly sloping contoured receiving surface A provided on the pad and the armrest apparatus being adjustable along its arc shaped path operators of differing heights may rest their elbow E and forearm F on the armrest apparatus after an appropriate adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected without being required to raise their elbow E and forearm F too high or too low or lean too much to the side to contact the armrest apparatus . Further the angular orientation of an operator s wrist W relative to his her forearm F after a corresponding adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected remains substantially the same for generally any operator including a short or a tall operator i.e. the wrist W is not substantially flexed upward or downward when the operator s hand H grips the multifunction controller MFC see .

The adjustable armrest mechanism further comprises a spring for applying a force to the armrest apparatus in a direction away from the base so as to assist an operator when the operator moves the armrest apparatus in a direction away from the base see . Fixed to the base is an tube like member having an opening A for receiving a first end of the spring . A second end of the spring is fitted over a curved shaft extending downward from a lower surface of the mount structure upper portion C see .

An adjustable armrest mechanism constructed in accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in where like reference numerals indicate like elements. The armrest mechanism is constructed in generally the same manner as the armrest mechanism of the first embodiment except that a gas filled strut is coupled between the base and the upper portion C of the mount structure instead of a spring. An example gas filled strut is one which is commercially available from Stabilus corporation under the product designation Lift O Mat Number 1417 EP. The strut is coupled to the base and the mount structure upper portion C via bolts studs welds and the like. Because a strut is provided in this embodiment the armrest mechanism lacks an open tube like member and a curved shaft . The strut functions to bias the armrest apparatus of the armrest mechanism in a direction away from the base . A pad is provided on the mount structure upper portion C just as in the embodiment illustrated in but is not illustrated in .

An adjustable armrest mechanism constructed in accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in where like reference numerals indicate like elements. The armrest mechanism comprises a base fixed to the vehicle frame not shown and an armrest apparatus movably coupled to the base . The base comprises a support frame A which in the illustrated embodiment is secured to the vehicle frame via bolts . The base further comprises first second and third guide members A C coupled to the support frame A so as to remain in a fixed position on the support frame A. Each first second and third guide member A C comprises a bolt A a flat washer B a first bushing guide C with a shoulder D facing away from the washer B a spacer E a second bushing guide F with a shoulder not shown facing toward the spacer E and a nut H see .

The armrest apparatus comprises in the illustrated embodiment a mount structure and a pad not shown mounted on the mount structure . The pad is similar to the pad illustrated in and is coupled to the mount structure in the same manner that pad is mounted to the mount structure in the embodiment. The pad includes a contoured receiving surface similar to the contoured receiving surface A provided in the pad . The mount structure includes in the illustrated embodiment a first side portion or plate A provided with first and second arc shaped slots A and B and an upper portion or plate C. The arc shaped slot A may have a radius of from about 520 to about 760 and preferably about 640 mm. The arc shaped slot B may have a radius of from about 400 to about 640 and preferably about 521 mm.

As can be seen in the guide members A C extend into the arc shaped slots A and B in the mount structure side portion A. For each guide member A C the first bushing guide C is positioned facing an outer surface D of the mount structure side portion A such that the first bushing guide shoulder D contacts the outer surface D and an inner edge surface C of a corresponding slot A and B see . Also for each guide member A C the second bushing guide F is positioned facing an inner surface E of the mount structure side portion A such that the second bushing guide shoulder contacts the inner surface E and the inner edge surface C of a corresponding slot A and B see . Portions F of the mount structure side portion A define the slots A and B see .

In the illustrated embodiment the armrest apparatus is capable of moving along an arc shaped path relative to the base due to the slot defining portions F of the mount structure side portion A engaging and moving relative to the guide members A C.

The armrest apparatus may be releasably locked in any one of a number of spaced apart positions relative to the base . A locking device is provided for releasably locking the armrest apparatus in a selected position relative to the base . The locking device comprises the same elements as the locking device described above and illustrated in . Hence the locking device comprises a rack fixedly coupled to the base . The rack is provided with a plurality of teeth A. The locking device further comprises a lever and pawl structure pivotally mounted to the mount structure and a spring . The shaft B of the lever and pawl structure extends into an opening A in the mount structure first side portion A and an opening G in a second side portion G of the mount structure so as to allow the structure to pivot relative to the mount structure .

As the armrest apparatus moves along its arc shaped path relative to the base it is caused to pivot about a virtual pivot point not shown located in front of the armrest apparatus and the base . Due to the downwardly sloping contoured receiving surface provided in the pad and the armrest apparatus being adjustable along its arc shaped path operators of different heights may rest their elbow and forearm on the armrest apparatus after an appropriate adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected without being required to raise their elbow and forearm too high or too low or lean too much to the side to contact the armrest apparatus . Further the angular orientation of an operator s wrist relative to his her forearm F after a corresponding adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected remains substantially the same for generally any operator including a short or a tall operator i.e. the wrist W is not substantially flexed upward or downward when an operator s hand H grips the multifunction controller MFC.

The armrest mechanism illustrated in lacks an active device for applying a biasing force to the mount structure in a direction away from the base . Instead the mount structure is provided with an integral gripping tab which an operator may grip while simultaneously lifting up on gripping handle A to move the armrest apparatus towards or away from the base . Releasing the gripping handle A causes the pawl C to engage a nearby tooth A so as to releasably lock the armrest mechanism in a desired position relative to the base .

It is further contemplated that each of the armrest apparatuses of the present invention may move along a varying arc path for example as defined by a four bar linkage yet still allow an operator s wrist W for generally all operators including both tall and short operators to remain in a neutral position after a corresponding adjustment to the armrest apparatus has been effected i.e. the operator s wrist is not substantially flexed upward or downward when the operator s hand grips the multifunction controller MFC.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

