---

title: Bicyclic indole-pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds selective for P110 delta, and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08158625&OS=08158625&RS=08158625
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08158625
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100526
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 181 458 filed on 27 May 2009 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds for treating disorders mediated by lipid kinases such as inflammation immunological and cancer and more specifically to compounds which inhibit PI3 kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Phosphatidylinositol PI a phospholipid found in cell membranes plays an important role in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 .

Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of the inositol ring of phosphoinositols Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 PDK1 . Binding of Akt to membrane PIP3s causes the translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane bringing Akt into contact with PDK1 which is responsible for activating Akt. The tumor suppressor phosphatase PTEN dephosphorylates PIP3 and therefore acts as a negative regulator of Akt activation. The PI3 kinases Akt and PDK1 are important in the regulation of many cellular processes including cell cycle regulation proliferation survival apoptosis and motility and are significant components of the molecular mechanisms of diseases such as cancer diabetes and immune inflammation Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

PI3 kinase is a heterodimer consisting of p85 and p110 subunits Otsu et al 1991 Cell 65 91 104 Hiles et al 1992 Cell 70 419 29 . Four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified designated PI3K alpha beta delta and gamma each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit. More specifically three of the catalytic subunits i.e. p110 alpha p110 beta and p110 delta each interact with the same regulatory subunit p85 whereas p110 gamma interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit p101. The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are also distinct.

The p110 delta isoform has been implicated in biological functions related to immune inflammatory diseases including signaling from the B cell receptor T cell receptor FcR signaling of mast cells and monocyte macrophage and osteoclast function RANKL signaling Deane J and Fruman D A 2004 Annu Rev. Immunol. 2004. 22 563 98 Janas et al. The Journal of Immunology 2008 180 739 746 Marone R et al. Biochim. Biophy. Acta 2007 1784 159 185. Deletion of the PI3K delta gene or selective introduction of a catalytically inactive mutant of PI3K delta causes a nearly complete ablation of B cell proliferation and signaling and impairment of signaling through T cells as well.

The invention relates generally to Formula I compounds with PI3 kinase inhibitory activity and selective binding to the p110 delta isoform relative to binding to the p110 alpha isoform. Formula I compounds are at least 10 fold selective in binding to the p110 delta isoform relative to binding to the p110 alpha isoform.

including stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The various substituents are as defined herein.

Another aspect of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

Another aspect of the invention provides the use of a Formula I compound in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by the p110 delta isoform of PI3 kinase.

Another aspect of the invention provides the use of a Formula I compound in the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by the p110 delta isoform of PI3 kinase.

The invention also relates to methods of using the Formula I compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions such as systemic and local inflammation immune inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis immune suppression organ transplant rejection allergies ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease dermatitis asthma systemic lupus erythematosus Sj gren s Syndrome multiple sclerosis scleroderma systemic sclerosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP anti neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies ANCA vasculitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD psoriasis and for general joint protective effects.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method of treating a disease or disorder which method comprises administering a Formula I compound to a patient with a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by the p110 delta isoform of PI3 kinase. The method may further comprise administering an additional therapeutic agent selected from a chemotherapeutic agent an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

Another aspect of the invention provides a kit for treating a condition mediated by the p110 delta isoform of PI3 kinase comprising a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I compound and instructions for use.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkylene radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkylene groups include but are not limited to methylene CH ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkenylene refers to linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenylene or vinylene CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term alkynylene refers to a linear or branched divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally. Examples include but are not limited to ethynylene C C propynylene propargylene CHC C and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Arylene means a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of two hydrogen atom from a two carbon atoms of a parent aromatic ring system. Some arylene groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Arylene includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical arylene groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenylene substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenylene indenylene indanylene 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Arylene groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl dihydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

 Inflammatory disorder as used herein can refer to any disease disorder or syndrome in which an excessive or unregulated inflammatory response leads to excessive inflammatory symptoms host tissue damage or loss of tissue function. Inflammatory disorder also refers to a pathological state mediated by influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis.

 Inflammation as used herein refers to a localized protective response elicited by injury or destruction of tissues which serves to destroy dilute or wall off sequester both the injurious agent and the injured tissue. Inflammation is notably associated with influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis. Inflammation can result from infection with pathogenic organisms and viruses and from noninfectious means such as trauma or reperfusion following myocardial infarction or stroke immune response to foreign antigen and autoimmune responses. Accordingly inflammatory disorders amenable to treatment with Formula I compounds encompass disorders associated with reactions of the specific defense system as well as with reactions of the nonspecific defense system.

 Specific defense system refers to the component of the immune system that reacts to the presence of specific antigens. Examples of inflammation resulting from a response of the specific defense system include the classical response to foreign antigens autoimmune diseases and delayed type hypersensitivity response mediated by T cells. Chronic inflammatory diseases the rejection of solid transplanted tissue and organs e.g. kidney and bone marrow transplants and graft versus host disease GVHD are further examples of inflammatory reactions of the specific defense system.

The term nonspecific defense system as used herein refers to inflammatory disorders that are mediated by leukocytes that are incapable of immunological memory e.g. granulocytes and macrophages . Examples of inflammation that result at least in part from a reaction of the nonspecific defense system include inflammation associated with conditions such as adult acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS or multiple organ injury syndromes reperfusion injury acute glomerulonephritis reactive arthritis dermatoses with acute inflammatory components acute purulent meningitis or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders such as stroke thermal injury inflammatory bowel disease granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity.

 Autoimmune disease as used herein refers to any group of disorders in which tissue injury is associated with humoral or cell mediated responses to the body s own constituents.

 Allergic disease as used herein refers to any symptoms tissue damage or loss of tissue function resulting from allergy. Arthritic disease as used herein refers to any disease that is characterized by inflammatory lesions of the joints attributable to a variety of etiologies. Dermatitis as used herein refers to any of a large family of diseases of the skin that are characterized by inflammation of the skin attributable to a variety of etiologies. Transplant rejection as used herein refers to any immune reaction directed against grafted tissue such as organs or cells e.g. bone marrow characterized by a loss of function of the grafted and surrounding tissues pain swelling leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia. The therapeutic methods of the present invention include methods for the treatment of disorders associated with inflammatory cell activation.

 Inflammatory cell activation refers to the induction by a stimulus including but not limited to cytokines antigens or auto antibodies of a proliferative cellular response the production of soluble mediators including but not limited to cytokines oxygen radicals enzymes prostanoids or vasoactive amines or cell surface expression of new or increased numbers of mediators including but not limited to major histocompatability antigens or cell adhesion molecules in inflammatory cells including but not limited to monocytes macrophages T lymphocytes B lymphocytes granulocytes i.e. polymorphonuclear leukocytes such as neutrophils basophils and eosinophils mast cells dendritic cells Langerhans cells and endothelial cells . It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the activation of one or a combination of these phenotypes in these cells can contribute to the initiation perpetuation or exacerbation of an inflammatory disorder.

The term NSAID is an acronym for non steroidal anti inflammatory drug and is a therapeutic agent with analgesic antipyretic lowering an elevated body temperature and relieving pain without impairing consciousness and in higher doses with anti inflammatory effects reducing inflammation . The term non steroidal is used to distinguish these drugs from steroids which among a broad range of other effects have a similar eicosanoid depressing anti inflammatory action. As analgesics NSAIDs are unusual in that they are non narcotic. NSAIDs include aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen. NSAIDs are usually indicated for the treatment of acute or chronic conditions where pain and inflammation are present. NSAIDs are generally indicated for the symptomatic relief of the following conditions rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis inflammatory arthropathies e.g. ankylosing spondylitis psoriatic arthritis Reiter s syndrome acute gout dysmenorrhoea metastatic bone pain headache and migraine postoperative pain mild to moderate pain due to inflammation and tissue injury pyrexia ileus and renal colic. Most NSAIDs act as non selective inhibitors of the enzyme cyclooxygenase inhibiting both the cyclooxygenase 1 COX 1 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 isoenzymes. Cyclooxygenase catalyzes the formation of prostaglandins and thromboxane from arachidonic acid itself derived from the cellular phospholipid bilayer by phospholipase A . Prostaglandins act among other things as messenger molecules in the process of inflammation. COX 2 inhibitors include celecoxib etoricoxib lumiracoxib parecoxib rofecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib.

The terms cancer refers to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg II vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethylacetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

wherein i Xis N and Xis S ii Xis CRand Xis S iii Xis N and Xis NR iv Xis CRand Xis O or v Xis CRand Xis NR 

Ris selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Caryl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene O C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene O C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl C Calkylene C Caryl C Calkyl C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NHR C Calkylene N C Calkyl R C Calkylene N C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene NHC O C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl N C Calkyl R C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl N C Calkyl R and C Calkylene N C Cheterocyclyl R where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH C CH CHOH CHCHOH C CH OH C CH OCH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH C CH CONH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH N CH C CH CONH N CH CHCHS O CH O OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH S O CH cyclopropyl morpholino and 1 1 dioxo thiopyran 4 yl 

Rand R are independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Caryl and C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHOH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH and S O CH 

each of which are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH C CH CHOCH CHF CN CF CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH CHC CH OH CH CH OH CH CHCH OH CHCH OH CH C CH OH C CH OCH CH CH F C CH F CH CHCH F C CHCH F COH CONH CON CHCH COCH CON CH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCHCH NHCH CH NHCHCHOH NHCHCHOCH NHCOCH NHCOCHCH NHCOCHOH NHS O CH N CH S O CH O OH OCH OCHCH OCH CH SH NHC O NHCH NHC O NHCHCH S O CH S O CHCH S O CH S O NH S O NHCH S O N CH CHS O CH 

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Caryl and C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHOH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH and S O CH and

mor is a morpholine group unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH C CH CHOCH CHF CN CF CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH CHC CH OH CH CH OH CH CHCH OH CHCH OH CH C CH OH C CH OCH CH CH F C CH F CH CHCH F C CHCH F COH CONH CON CHCH COCH CON CH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCHCH NHCH CH NHCHCHOH NHCHCHOCH NHCOCH NHCOCHCH NHCOCHOH NHS O CH N CH S O CH O OH OCH OCHCH OCH CH SH NHC O NHCH NHC O NHCHCH S O CH S O CHCH S O CH S O NH S O NHCH S O N CH CHS O CH.

wherein i Xis N and Xis S ii Xis CRand Xis S iii Xis N and Xis NR iv Xis CRand Xis O or v Xis CRand Xis NR 

Ris selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Caryl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl C Calkylene C Caryl C Calkyl C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NHR C Calkylene N C Calkyl R C Calkylene N C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene NH C Calkylene NHC O C Cheteroaryl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl N C Calkyl R C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl N C Calkyl R and C Calkylene N C Cheterocyclyl R where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CHOH CHCHOH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH C CH CONH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH NHS O CH N CH C CH CONH N CH CHCHS O CH O OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH S O CH cyclopropyl and morpholino 

Ris selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Caryl and C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHOH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH and S O CH 

each of which are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH C CH CHOCH CHF CN CF CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH CHC CH OH CH CH OH CH CHCH OH CHCH OH CH C CH OH C CH OCH CH CH F C CH F CH CHCH F C CHCH F COH CONH CON CHCH COCH CON CH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCHCH NHCH CH NHCHCHOH NHCHCHOCH NHCOCH NHCOCHCH NHCOCHOH NHS O CH N CH S O CH O OH OCH OCHCH OCH CH SH NHC O NHCH NHC O NHCHCH S O CH S O CHCH S O CH S O NH S O NHCH S O N CH CHS O CH and

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclyl C Calkylene C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C O C Cheterocyclyl C Calkylene C Caryl and C Calkylene C Cheteroaryl where alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkylene carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHOH CN CF COH COCH COCH CONH CONHCH CON CH NO NH NHCH NHCOCH NHS O CH OH OCH S O N CH SCH CHOCH and S O CH.

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

The relative efficacies of Formula I compounds as inhibitors of an enzyme activity or other biological activity can be established by determining the concentrations at which each compound inhibits the activity to a predefined extent and then comparing the results. Typically the preferred determination is the concentration that inhibits 50 of the activity in a biochemical assay i.e. the 50 inhibitory concentration or IC . Determination of ICvalues can be accomplished using conventional techniques known in the art. In general an ICcan be determined by measuring the activity of a given enzyme in the presence of a range of concentrations of the inhibitor under study. The experimentally obtained values of enzyme activity then are plotted against the inhibitor concentrations used. The concentration of the inhibitor that shows 50 enzyme activity as compared to the activity in the absence of any inhibitor is taken as the ICvalue. Analogously other inhibitory concentrations can be defined through appropriate determinations of activity. For example in some settings it can be desirable to establish a 90 inhibitory concentration i.e. IC etc.

Accordingly a selective PI3K delta inhibitor can be understood to refer to a compound that exhibits a 50 inhibitory concentration IC with respect to PI3K delta that is at least at least 10 fold lower than the IC50 value with respect to any or all of the other Class I PI3K family members.

Determination of the activity of PI3 kinase activity of Formula I compounds is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were assayed for their ability to inhibit PI3K alpha beta gamma and delta isoforms Example 901 . The range of IC50 values for inhibition of PI3K delta was less than 1 nM nanomolar to about 10 M micromolar . Certain exemplary compounds of the invention had PI3K delta inhibitory ICvalues less than 10 nM. The compounds are selective for the p110 delta isoform which is a class Ia PI3 kinase over other class Ia PI3 kinases and are thus selective for the p110 isoform over both the p110 alpha isoform and the p110 beta isoform. In particular they are selective for p110 delta over p110 alpha . The compounds are also selective for the p110 isoform over p110 gamma which is a class Ib kinase. The selectivity exhibited by Formula I compounds of the invention for p110 delta over the p110 alpha isoform of PI3 kinase is at least 10 fold as exemplified by the ratios of biochemical ICvalues. Example 901 .

Certain Formula I compounds may have antiproliferative activity to treat hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The Formula I compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients. Formula I compounds may be tested for in vitro cell proliferation activity and in vivo tumor growth inhibition according to the methods in WO 2006 046031 US 2008 0039459 US 2008 0076768 US 2008 0076758 WO 2008 070740 WO 2008 073785 which are incorporated by reference herein.

Evaluation of drug induced immunosuppression by the compounds of the invention may be performed using in vivo functional tests such as rodent models of induced arthritis and therapeutic or prophylactic treatment to assess disease score T cell dependent antibody response TDAR and delayed type hypersensitivity DTH . Other in vivo systems including murine models of host defense against infections or tumor resistance Burleson G R Dean J H and Munson A E. 1. Wiley Liss New York 1995 may be considered to elucidate the nature or mechanisms of observed immunosuppression. The in vivo test systems can be complemented by well established in vitro or ex vivo functional assays for the assessment of immune competence. These assays may comprise B or T cell proliferation in response to mitogens or specific antigens measurement of signaling through the PI3K pathway in B or T cells or immortalized B or T cell lines measurement of cell surface markers in response to B or T cell signaling natural killer NK cell activity mast cell activity mast cell degranulation macrophage phagocytosis or kill activity and neutrophil oxidative burst and or chemotaxis. In each of these tests determination of cytokine production by particular effector cells e.g. lymphocytes NK monocytes macrophages neutrophils may be included. The in vitro and ex vivo assays can be applied in both preclinical and clinical testing using lymphoid tissues and or peripheral blood House R V. Theory and practice of cytokine assessment in immunotoxicology 1999 Methods 19 17 27 Hubbard A K. Effects of xenobiotics on macrophage function evaluation in vitro 1999 Methods 19 8 16 Lebrec H et al 2001 Toxicology 158 25 29 .

Collagen Induced Arthritis CIA 6 week detailed study was employed using an autoimmune mechanism to mimic human arthritis rat and mouse models Example 902 . Collagen induced arthritis CIA is one of the most commonly used animal models of human rheumatoid arthritis RA . Joint inflammation which develops in animals with CIA strongly resembles inflammation observed in patients with RA. Blocking tumor necrosis factor TNT is an efficacious treatment of CIA just as it is a highly efficacious therapy in treatment of RA patients. CIA is mediated by both T cells and antibodies B cells . Macrophages are believed to play an important role in mediating tissue damage during disease development. CIA is induced by immunizing animals with collagen emulsified in Complete Freund s Adjuvant CFA . It is most commonly induced in the DBA 1 mouse strain but the disease can also be induced in Lewis rats. Formula I compounds were tested in the CIA test Example 902 .

There is good evidence that B cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and or inflammatory disease. Protein based therapeutics that deplete B cells such as Rituxan are effective against autoantibody driven inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis Rastetter et al. 2004 Annu Rev Med 55 477 . CD69 is the early activation marker in leukocytes including T cells thymocytes B cells NK cells neutrophils and eosinophils. The CD69 human whole blood assay Example 903 determines the ability of compounds to inhibit the production of CD69 by B lymphocytes in human whole blood activated by crosslinking surface IgM with goat F ab anti human IgM.

The T cell Dependent Antibody Response TDAR is a predictive assay for immune function testing when potential immunotoxic effects of compounds need to be studied. The IgM Plaque Forming Cell PFC assay using Sheep Red Blood Cells SRBC as the antigen is currently a widely accepted and validated standard test. TDAR has proven to be a highly predictable assay for adult exposure immunotoxicity detection in mice based on the US National Toxicology Program NTP database M. I. Luster et al 1992 Fundam. Appl. Toxicol. 18 200 210 . The utility of this assay stems from the fact that it is a holistic measurement involving several important components of an immune response. A TDAR is dependent on functions of the following cellular compartments 1 antigen presenting cells such as macrophages or dendritic cells 2 T helper cells which are critical players in the genesis of the response as well as in isotype switching and 3 B cells which are the ultimate effector cells and are responsible for antibody production. Chemically induced changes in any one compartment can cause significant changes in the overall TDAR M. P. Holsapple In G. R. Burleson J. H. Dean and A. E. Munson Editors 1 Wiley Liss Publishers New York N.Y. 1995 pp. 71 108 . Usually this assay is performed either as an ELISA for measurement of soluble antibody R. J. Smialowizc et al 2001 Toxicol. Sci. 61 164 175 or as a plaque or antibody forming cell assay L. Guo et al 2002 Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 181 219 227 to detect plasma cells secreting antigen specific antibodies. The antigen of choice is either whole cells e.g. sheep erythrocytes or soluble protein antigens T. Miller et al 1998 Toxicol. Sci. 42 129 135 .

Exemplary Formula I compounds No. 101 137 in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for inhibition of PI3K delta and selectivity according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures and corresponding names ChemDraw Ultra Version 9.0.1 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. .

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Formula I compounds of the present invention are useful for treating a human or animal patient suffering from a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior associated with PI3 kinase in particular with the p110 delta isoform of PI3 kinase such as an immune disorder cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation a metabolism endocrine disorder or a neurological disorder may thus be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. A human or animal patient suffering from cancer may also be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. The condition of the patient may thereby be improved or ameliorated.

Formula I compounds may be useful for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions such as systemic and local inflammation immune inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis immune suppression organ transplant rejection allergies ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease dermatitis asthma systemic lupus erythematosus Sj gren s Syndrome multiple sclerosis scleroderma systemic sclerosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP anti neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies ANCA vasculitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD psoriasis and for general joint protective effects.

Methods of the invention also include treating such diseases as arthritic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis monoarticular arthritis osteoarthritis gouty arthritis spondylitis Behcet disease sepsis septic shock endotoxic shock gram negative sepsis gram positive sepsis and toxic shock syndrome multiple organ injury syndrome secondary to septicemia trauma or hemorrhage ophthalmic disorders such as allergic conjunctivitis vernal conjunctivitis uveitis and thyroid associated opthalmopathy eosinophilic granuloma pulmonary or respiratory disorders such as asthma chronic bronchitis allergic rhinitis ARDS chronic pulmonary inflammatory disease e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease silicosis pulmonary sarcoidosis pleurisy alveolitis vasculitis emphysema pneumonia bronchiectasis and pulmonary oxygen toxicity reperfusion injury of the myocardium brain or extremities fibrosis such as cystic fibrosis keloid formation or scar tissue formation atherosclerosis autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus SLE autoimmune thyroiditis multiple sclerosis some forms of diabetes and Reynaud s syndrome and transplant rejection disorders such as GVHD and allograft rejection chronic glomerulonephritis inflammatory bowel diseases such as chronic inflammatory bowel disease CIBD Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis and necrotizing enterocolitis inflammatory dermatoses such as contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis psoriasis or urticaria fever and myalgias due to infection central or peripheral nervous system inflammatory disorders such as meningitis encephalitis and brain or spinal cord injury due to minor trauma Sjogren s syndrome diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis alcoholic hepatitis bacterial pneumonia antigen antibody complex mediated diseases hypovolemic shock Type I diabetes mellitus acute and delayed hypersensitivity disease states due to leukocyte dyscrasia and metastasis thermal injury granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity.

The methods of the invention can have utility in treating subjects who are or can be subject to reperfusion injury i.e. injury resulting from situations in which a tissue or organ experiences a period of ischemia followed by reperfusion. The term ischemia refers to localized tissue anemia due to obstruction of the inflow of arterial blood. Transient ischemia followed by reperfusion characteristically results in neutrophil activation and transmigration through the endothelium of the blood vessels in the affected area. Accumulation of activated neutrophils in turn results in generation of reactive oxygen metabolites which damage components of the involved tissue or organ. This phenomenon of reperfusion injury is commonly associated with conditions such as vascular stroke including global and focal ischemia hemorrhagic shock myocardial ischemia or infarction organ transplantation and cerebral vasospasm. To illustrate reperfusion injury occurs at the termination of cardiac bypass procedures or during cardiac arrest when the heart once prevented from receiving blood begins to reperfuse. It is expected that inhibition of PI3K delta activity may result in reduced amounts of reperfusion injury in such situations.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the hyperproliferative disorder.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula I may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom. Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs. The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as inflammation or a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second therapeutic compound that has anti inflammatory or anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating an inflammation immune response disorder or hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second therapeutic agent may be an NSAID anti inflammatory agent. The second therapeutic agent may be a chemotherapeutic agent. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a therapeutic agent such as an NSAID.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other therapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other therapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein and those for other heterocycles described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 each of which are expressly incorporated by reference. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

In certain embodiments thiazolopyrimidine compounds of Formula I Xis N and Xis S may be readily prepared using procedures well known to prepare thiazoles pyrimidines and thiazolopyrimidines U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 383 U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 187 777 U.S. Pat. No. 3 763 156 U.S. Pat. No. 3 661 908 U.S. Pat. No. 3 475 429 U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 305 US 2003 220365 GB 1390658 GB 1393161 WO 93 13664 .

In certain embodiments purine compounds of Formula I Xis N and Xis NR may be readily prepared using well known procedures to prepare purines Hammarstrom et al 2007 Tetrahedron Lett. 48 16 2823 2827 Cerna et al 2006 Organic Letters 8 23 5389 5392 Chang et al 2006 J. Med. Chem. 49 10 2861 2867 Yang et al 2005 J. Comb. Chem. 7 474 482 Liu et al 2005 J. Comb. Chem. 7 627 636 Hocek et al 2004 Synthesis 17 2869 2876 Hammarstrom et al 2003 Tetrahedron Lett. 44 8361 8363 Hammarstrom et al 2002 Tetrahedron Lett. 43 8071 8073 Booth et al 1987 J. Chem. Soc Perkin Trans. 1 Organic and Bio Organic Chem. 7 1521 1526 Booth et al 1981 J. Chem. Soc. Chemical Communications 15 788 789 Yoneda et al 1976 J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 1 Organic and Bio Organic Chem. 14 1547 1550 Taylor et al 1971 J. Org. Chem. 36 21 3211 3217 Lister J. H. Fenn M. D. The Purines Supplementary 1 John Wiley Sons 1996 Volume 54 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds Editors Weissberger A. Taylor E. C. Wiley Interscience 1971 Volume 24 Legraverend M. Grierson D. S. 2006 Bioorg. Med. Chem. 14 3987 4006 Hocek M. 2003 Eur. J. Org. Chem. 245 254 U.S. Pat. No. 7 122 665 U.S. Pat. No. 6 743 919 U.S. Pat. No. 5 332 744 U.S. Pat. No. 4 728 644 U.S. Pat. No. 3 016 378 US 2008 0058297 US 2003 0139427 WO 2008 043031 .

Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing Formula I compounds and necessary reagents and intermediates are known in the art and include for example those described in R. Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations VCH Publishers 1989 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3rd Ed. John Wiley and Sons 1999 and L. Paquette ed. Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

A purine compound may be prepared by using 2 4 8 trichloropurine as a starting material. The three chloro groups can be displaced by various substituents. More specifically the most reactive chloro group i.e. chloro at position 4 is substituted with a morpholino group to form morpholinopurine.

For illustrative purposes Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparing Formula I purine compounds as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the General Procedures and Examples sections. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted and discussed in the General Procedures and Examples other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the exemplary compounds prepared by the described methods can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formulas I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

In the methods of preparing Formula I compounds it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like. Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved such as boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach an indole or indole analog at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring of a 2 chloro purine 21. The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a fused bicyclic heterocycle or a fused bicyclic heteroaryl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring of thiazolopyrimidines i thienopyrimidines ii furanopyrimidines iv and pyrrolopyrimidines v . For example 21 may be combined with about 1.5 equivalents of 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indole 24 and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively a nitrogen of the fused bicyclic heterocycle or a fused bicyclic heteroaryl may be protected for example as N THP. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction is then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a microwave reactor such as the Biotage Optimizer Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the Suzuki coupling products 22 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC. Substituents R R R may be R R Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

A variety of palladium catalysts can be used during the Suzuki coupling step to form compounds including exemplary embodiments 22. Suzuki coupling is a palladium mediated cross coupling reaction of a heteroarylhalide such as 21 with a boronic acid such as 24. Low valent Pd II and Pd 0 catalysts may be used in the Suzuki coupling reaction including PdCl2 PPh Pd t Bu PdCldppf CHCl Pd PPh Pd OAc PPh ClPd Pet Pd DIPHOS ClPd Bipy PdCl PhPCHPPh ClPd P o tol Pd dba P o tol Pd dba P furyl ClPd P furyl ClPd PMePh ClPd P 4 F Ph ClPd P CF ClPd P 2 COOH Ph Ph ClPd P 4 COOH Ph Ph and encapsulated catalysts Pd EnCat 30 Pd EnCat TPP30 and Pd II EnCat BINAP30 US 2004 0254066 .

To a 2 6 dichloro purine intermediate 27 in a solvent such as ethanol is added a morpholine or a morpholine analog and a non nucleophilic base such as triethylamine NEt 1.5 eq 63 l . Alternatively acetonitrile may be used as the solvent and potassium carbonate may be used as the base. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for about 1 hour or overnight volatiles removed in vacuo and residue partitioned between DCM and brine. If the mixture is insoluble it may be sonicated and the solid product was collected by filtration. Drying with magnesium sulfate and evaporation of the solvent gives N 2 chloro purin 6 yl amine substituted intermediate 28 often as a crystalline solid or by trituration. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

9 H Purine intermediate 29 is brought up into DMF and 2 equiv of cesium carbonate is added to the reaction mixture. The reaction is heated to 50 C. whereupon 1 to 3 equivalents of an alkyl halide R X are added to the reaction mixture. The reaction is monitored by TLC or LC MS and stirred until completion typically several hours. The reaction mixture is extracted with EtOAc and water and the organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to get crude 9 alkylated purine 30 which is used directly in the next reaction or purified by reverse phase HPLC. Substituents R R and R may be R Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

Generally N 9 tetrahydropyranyl substituted 31 may be treated with catalytic amounts of para toluenesulfonic acid PTSA in a solution of methanol and heated to about 50 C. until the tetrahydropyran THP group is removed to afford compound 32. The reaction may be monitored by LC MS or TLC. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

Generally substituted 33 is suspended in dichloromethane whereupon 3 equivalents of Hunig s base DIPEA and 1.5 equivalents of an amine NH R are added to the reaction mixture. The reaction is monitored by TLC or LC MS until complete usually within 30 minutes. The reaction mixture is extracted with water and the organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to dryness. The intermediate 34 can be taken as crude into subsequent reactions or in some cases is purified by column chromatography.

A 2 6 8 substituted 9 alkylcarboxyl purine 35 where n is 1 to 12 is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 2 7 aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate an excess such as 3 eq of an alkylamine HNRR and an excess such as 3 eq of cesium carbonate in dimethylformamide DMF . Alternatively other coupling reagents may be used. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the acylated crude intermediate which is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield product 36. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

To intermediate 37 in a microwave vial is added 1.2 equivalents of an aryl bromide 1 equivalent of copper I iodide or copper thiophene carboxylate and 1 4 dioxane as solvent. The reaction mixture is degassed under nitrogen for 5 minutes prior to addition of 0.12 equivalents of tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 . The reaction is heated in a CEM or Biotage microwave for 20 30 minutes at 140 C. The crude reaction mixture is filtered and periodically passed through a Biotage Isolute scx 2 basic spe cartridge before being purified via normal or reverse phase chromatography to afford pure product 38. Substituents R and R may be Rand Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of polyfunctionalized purines begins with protection of the N 9 nitrogen of 2 6 dichloro 9H purine as the tetrahydropyranyl group THP . Displacement of the more reactive chloro group with morpholine gives 4 2 chloro 9 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine. The C 8 proton is removed with strong base and reacted with various electrophiles R . After deprotection with mild acid N 9 is alkylated of N 9 with various electrophiles R . Suzuki coupling at C 2 chloro by General Procedure A with various boronate reagents and palladium catalysts gives carbon linked indole and indole analogs as R.

The chemical reactions described in the Examples may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting reactive functional groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods. The spectrometers have an electrospray source operating in positive and negative ion mode. Additional detection was achieved using a Sedex 85 evaporative light scattering detector.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and a 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna 3 m C 2 30 4.6 mm and a 2 mL minute flow rate. The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in methanol solvent B . The initial solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.5 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and a 100 position autosampler using a using a Phenomenex Luna 3 m C 2 30 4.6 mm and a 2 mL minute flow rate The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in acetonitrile solvent B . The initial solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.50 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Method C Experiments performed on a Waters ZMD quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Waters 1525 LC system with a Waters 996 diode array detector and a Waters 2700 autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna 3 m C 2 30 4.6 mm and a 2 mL minute flow rate. The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in methanol solvent B . The initial solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.5 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Method D Experiments performed on a Waters ZMD quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Waters 1525 LC system with a Waters 996 diode array detector and a Waters 2700 autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna 3 m C 2 30 4.6 mm and a 2 mL minute flow rate. The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in acetonitrile solvent B . The initial solvent system was 95 solvent A and 5 solvent B for the first 0.5 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute.

Method E Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ2000 quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with a DAD UV detector and a CTC HTS PAL autosampler using a Higgins Clipeus 5 m C18 100 3.0 mm column at 40 C. and a 1 mL minute flow rate. The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in methanol solvent B . The initial solvent system was 85 solvent A and 15 solvent B for the first 1 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 12 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 7 minutes.

Method F Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ2000 quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with a DAD UV detector and a CTC HTS PAL autosampler using a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C100 3.0 mm column and a 1 mL minute flow rate. The mobile phase consisted of formic acid 0.1 in water solvent A and formic acid 0.1 in acetonitrile solvent B . The initial solvent system was 85 solvent A and 15 solvent B for the first 1 minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a CEM Explorer Smith Synthesizer or a Biotage Initiator which uses a single mode resonator and dynamic field tuning both of which give reproducibility and control. Temperatures from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures up to 20 bar can be reached.

Unless otherwise stated all reactions were performed under an inert i.e. argon or nitrogen atmosphere.

The cyano group of 5 amino 1 methyl 1H imidazole 4 carbonitrile 1 is hydrolyzed with sulfuric acid to give 5 amino 1 methyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxamide 2. Cyclization with urea gives 9 methyl 1H purine 2 6 3H 9H dione 3. Chlorination with phosphorus pentachloride and phosphorusoxychloride gives 2 6 dichloro 9 methyl 9H purine 4 CAS Registry 2382 10 7 .

A solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 3.0 g 10.54 mmol and 4 azetidin 3 ylmorpholine 1.8 g 12.66 mmol in DCE 200 mL was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 h. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.5 g 16.5 mmol was added and the mixture stirred for 18 h then loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 50 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH 100 0 to 99 1 to 98 2 to 95 5 to afford the title compound as a cream solid 2.66 g 61 . LCMS Method C R 2.68 min M H 411.3

A solution of 6 bromomethyl 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidine 500 mg 1.43 mmol 1 oxa 4 9 diaza spiro 5.5 undecan 3 one 315 mg 1.85 mmol and potassium carbonate 450 mg 3.26 mmol in DMF 40 mL was stirred at ambient temperature for 18 hours then loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH 100 0 to 98 2 to 95 5 to afford the title compound as a white solid 515 mg 82 . LCMS Method A R 2.51 min M H 438.1

A mixture of 2 4 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 1.0 g 2.3 mmol hexabutylditin 1.4 mL 2.7 mmol and PdClPBu Ph p NMe 161 mg 0.2 mmol in dioxane 10 mL was degassed and then subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH and loaded onto a Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 25 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue which was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 10 90 . Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give the title compound as white foam 0.9 g 56 . LCMS Method C R 3.88 min M H 693.1 Sn 695.1 Sn 

A mixture of 2 4 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 1.0 g 2.2 mmol hexabutylditin 1.4 mL 2.7 mmol and PdClPBu Ph p NMe 161 mg 0.2 mmol in dioxane 10 mL was degassed and then subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 25 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give a residue which was subjected to flash chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 10 90 . Appropriate fractions were combined and concentrated to give the title compound as a yellow oil 1.1 g 67 . LCMS Method C R 4.83 min M H 694.1 Sn 696.1 Sn 

To a solution of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 c pyrimidine 6 carbaldehyde 1.00 g 3.36 mmol in DCE 50 mL was added 2 piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 630 mg 3.69 mmol trimethyl orthoformate 3.67 mL 33.58 mmol and acetic acid 0.19 mL 3.36 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 3 h sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.10 g 5.03 mmol was added and the resulting mixture stirred for a further 17 h. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge washed with MeOH then eluted with 2 M NHin MeOH DCM. The resultant residue was triturated with MeOH to give the title compound as a white solid 1.12 g 74 . LCMS Method C R 2.88 min M H 453

A mixture of 2 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 194 mg 0.43 mmol hexabutylditin 373 mg 0.64 mmol PdClPBu Ph p NMe 30 mg 10 mol in dioxane 2 mL was purged with nitrogen gas then heated at 150 C. for 20 min in a microwave reactor. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge washed with MeOH then eluted with 2M NHin MeOH. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 05 95 to afford the title compound as a colorless oil 192 mg 63 . LCMS Method D R2.92 min M H 705 Sn 707 Sn 

To 4 2 chloro 9 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 100 g in methanol 500 mL at 50 C. was added p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 6 g . The reaction was stirred for 30 mins whereupon white solid has crashed fully out of solution. The solid was filtered and collected through a Buchner funnel rinsed with methanol and dried under vacuum to get 4 2 chloro 9H purin 6 yl morpholine. Cesium carbonate 200 g and iodomethane 30 mL were subsequently added to a stirring solution of 4 2 chloro 9H purin 6 yl morpholine in DMF at 50 C. The reaction was monitored by lc ms until complete about 30 minutes whereupon the solvent was concentrated to dryness. Subsequent suspension of the crude reaction in water crashed out 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 72 g as a white solid which was filtered and dried under vacuum overnight.

To stirred solution of 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 10 g and N N N N tetramethylethylenediamine 9.0 mL in tetrahydrofuran 200 mL at 78 C. was added 2.5 M of n butyllithium in tetrahydrofuran 35 mL . The solution was stirred at 40 C. for 30 minutes and then re cooled to 78 C. whereupon DMF 8 mL was added and the reaction stirred for another hour. The reaction was quenched into cold 0.25N HCl solution via 10 mL serological pipet aliquots. Ice was added to keep quenching solution temperature below 5 C. to avoid formation of by product during workup. 2 Chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purine 8 carbaldehyde 11 g crashed out as a light yellow solid which was filtered rinsed with water and dried under vacuum.

A solution of 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purine 8 carbaldehyde 17.2 g in MeOH 800 mL at 0 C. was treated portion wise with sodium borohydride 5 g . The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to yield crude 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methanol 16.9 g as a white solid.

To a solution of crude 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methanol 16.5 g in a mixture of dichloroethane 600 mL and THF 400 mL at 0 C. was added phosphorus tribromide 11 mL dropwise. The reaction was stirred for 1 h whereupon the solid that crashed out was filtered rinsed with water collected and dried to give 4 8 bromomethyl 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 15.6 g as a white solid.

2 Piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol 0.73 g was reacted with 4 8 bromomethyl 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 1.6 g via General Procedure C to yield 2 1 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol 1.76 g as a white solid.

A microwave vessel was charged with 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.500 g 1.26 mmol 1 BOC indole 3 yl boronic acid 363 mg 1.39 mmol 1 N sodium carbonate solution 3 mL acetonitrile 9 mL and Pd dppf Cl 103 mg. 0.126 mmol then the mixture was degassed sealed and heated at 140 C. under microwave irradiation for 20 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 100 mL and 1 N sodium carbonate solution 10 mL then the phases were separated. The organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 15 mL then dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by chromatography silica 0 to 15 of a 9.5 0.5 MeOH NHOH solution in dichloromethane followed by trituration with hot ethanol afforded 101 161 mg 27 as a cream powder. MS m e 477 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CHCl d ppm 1.53 1.68 m 2H 1.75 br. s. 1H 1.83 d J 11.6 Hz 2H 2.05 2.22 m 3H 2.30 s 6H 3.04 d J 12.1 Hz 2H 3.81 s 2H 3.88 3.99 m 4H 4.01 4.13 m 4H 7.21 7.32 m 2H 7.37 7.45 m 1H 8.14 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 8.64 8.70 m 1H 8.76 br. s. 1H 

A microwave vessel was charged with 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.2 g indoline 0.12 g p toluenesulfonic acid 0.01 g and DMF 3 mL . The vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. under microwave irradiation for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solid precipitate was filtered and purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish the title compound 0.09 g 38 as an off white solid. MS m e 479 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.36 1.65 m 2H 1.85 d J 11.30 Hz 2H 2.06 t J 10.74 Hz 2H 2.44 br. s. 6H 2.97 d J 11.30 Hz 2H 3.12 t J 8.48 Hz 3H 3.67 3.93 m 10H 4.17 t J 8.67 Hz 2H 6.84 t J 7.35 Hz 1H 7.03 7.29 m 3H 8.31 d J 7.91 Hz 1H .

A solution of indole 0.117 g in DMF 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. then sodium hydride 0.06 g was added. After 15 min 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.395 g was added. The reaction flask was sealed heated at 150 C. for 1 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with water. The solid precipitate was collected by filtration then purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish the title compound 0.156 g 33 as an off white solid. MS m e 477 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.27 1.57 m 2H 1.55 1.79 m 2H 1.95 2.13 m 3H 2.16 s 6H 2.75 3.06 m 2H 3.74 3.89 m 6H 3.91 4.08 m 4H 6.71 d J 3.39 Hz 1H 7.18 s 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.61 s 1H 8.30 d J 3.77 Hz 1H 8.78 d J 7.91 Hz 1H 

To a solution of 4 8 bromomethyl 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 935 mg 2.7 mmol in DCM 30 mL was added 4 morpholino piperidine 505 mg 2.97 mmol and DIEA 0.70 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The mixture was then poured onto water and the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with three times with DCM. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was then purified by flash chromatography 0 30 gradient MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a white solid 95 . LCMS M H 436.2.

To a degassed suspension of 4 1 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl morpholine 249 mg 0.571 mmol 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 indoleboronic acid 189 mg 0.628 mmol 2M NaCOaqueous solution 0.571 mL 1.0 mmol in toluene 5 mL and ethanol 2 mL was added Pd PPh 33 mg 0.029 mmol . The suspension was then stirred under nitrogen at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc and water. The layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 25 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a white solid 357 mg 95.2 . LCMS M H 657.2.

Step 3 To a solution of 4 1 9 methyl 6 morpholino 2 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl morpholine 357 mg 0.544 mmol in ethanol 5 mL was added a 1 M aqueous solution of NaOH 4 mL 4 mmol . After 18 hours of stirring the reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by RP HPLC to give 104 162 mg 57.7 . LCMS M H 517.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.46 s 1H 8.60 m 1H 8.13 s 1H 7.43 m 1H 7.14 m 2H 4.16 s 4H 3.84 s 3H 3.76 t 4H 3.71 s 2H 3.54 t 4H 2.85 d 2H 2.43 t 4H 2.07 m 3H 1.75 d 2H 1.38 m 2H 

A solution of 2 methylindole 0.131 g in DMF 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. then sodium hydride 0.06 g added. After 15 min 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.395 g was added. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water. The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration then purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish the title compound 0.059 g 12 as a light brown solid. MS m e 491 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.33 1.57 m 2H 1.74 d J 12.43 Hz 2H 2.08 t J 10.55 Hz 3H 2.18 s 6H 2.64 s 3H 2.95 d J 11.30 Hz 2H 3.74 3.87 m 6H 3.89 4.04 m 4H 6.42 s 1H 6.98 7.20 m 2H 7.37 s 1H 7.43 7.56 m 1H 8.03 d J 7.54 Hz 1H 

Following the procedures to prepare 104 S 2 4 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 3 methylmorpholino thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 methylpropanamide was converted to 106. LCMS M H 548.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.50 s 1H 8.62 m 1H 8.17 s 1H 7.45 m 1H 7.13 m 2H 7.05 s 1H 6.94 s 1H 4.77 m 1H 4.45 d 1H 4.05 d 1H 3.73 3.88 m 4H 3.58 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 2.38 2.63 m 11H 1.34 d 3H 1.08 s 6H 

To a solution of 4 2 chloro 9 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 1.96 g 6.05 mmol in THF 75 mL was a 2.5 M solution of n BuLi in hexanes 3.2 mL 7.9 mmol at 78 C. The reaction mixture was then stirred at 78 C. for 45 minutes. DMF 0.94 mL 12.1 mmol was then added. The resulting mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours before being poured slowly onto ice. The mixture was then extracted three times with DCM. The combined extracts were washed with water dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 25 EtOAc in heptane to give the title compound 1.1 g 52 . LCMS M H 352.2.

A mixture of 2 chloro 6 morpholino 9 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 9H purine 8 carbaldehyde 245 mg 0.696 mmol 2 4 piperidyl 2 propanol 110 mg 0.77 mmol and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 162 mg 0.77 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 10 mL was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was then extracted with DCM. The combined organic extracts were then washed with water dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 0 100 gradient EtOAc heptane to give the title compound 328 mg 98 . LCMS M H 480.2.

To a solution of 2 1 2 chloro 6 morpholino 9 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol 328 mg 0.685 mmol in methanol 10 mL was added concentrated HCl 0.15 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to give a yellow paste which was then taken up in DMF 10 mL and cooled to 0 C. To this cooled solution was then added sodium hydride 60 dispersion 88 mg 2.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes before the addition of 2 bromoethanol acetate 0.2 mL 1.8 mmol . After 18 hours of stirring at room temperature the reaction was diluted with water. The aqueous mixture was the extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 10 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound 110 mg 26 . LCMS M H 481.2.

Step 4 To a degassed suspension of 2 2 chloro 8 4 2 hydroxypropan 2 yl piperidin 1 yl methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 9 yl ethyl acetate 110 mg 0.23 mmol 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 indoleboronic acid 83 mg 0.27 mmol 2 M NaCOaqueous solution 0.23 mL 0.46 mmol in toluene 3 mL and ethanol 1 mL was added Pd PPh 10 mg 0.009 mmol . The suspension was then stirred under nitrogen at 95 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc and water. The layers were then separated. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude mixture was filtered through a pad of silica gel 10 MeOH in DCM and the filtrate was concentrated to give a yellow paste which was then taken up in ethanol 10 mL . To the solution was added a 1 M aqueous solution of NaOH 2 mL 2 mmol . After 2 hours of stirring at 65 C. the reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by RP HPLC to give 107 32 mg 40 . LCMS M H 520.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.5 s 1H 8.54 m 1H 8.20 s 1H 8.11 d 1H 7.44 m 1H 7.14 m 2H 4.44 t 2H 4.27 s br 4H 3.85 t 2H 3.78 m 4H 3.72 s 3H 2.91 m 2H 1.98 m 2H 1.67 m 2H 1.21 m 3H 1.01 s 6H 

Following the procedures to prepare 104 4 tetrahydro 1 1 dioxo thiopyran 4 ylpiperazine was converted to 108. LCMS M H 565.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.46 s 1H 8.60 m 1H 8.13 s 1H 7.43 m 1H 7.14 m 2H 4.26 s 4H 3.86 s 3H 3.76 m 4H 3.72 s 2H 3.06 m 4H 2.35 2.62 m 9H 1.98 m 4H 

A mixture of 1 1 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 morpholin 4 yl 9H purin 8 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl pyrrolidin 2 one 115 mg 0.26 mmol 1 tert butyldimethylsilanyl 5 fluoro 1H indol 4 yl boronic acid 105 mg 0.36 mmol Pd PPh 30 mg 10 mol and cesium carbonate 167 mg 0.51 mmol in dioxane water 5 2 mL was purged with nitrogen gas then heated at 140 C. for 30 min in a microwave reactor. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge washed with MeOH then eluted with 2 M NHin MeOH. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography Si PPC MeOH DCM gradient 0 100 to 07 93 to give 109 as a colourless oil 13 mg 9 . LCMS Method F R8.15 min M H 547.3. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.74 dd J 9.1 4.8 Hz 1H 8.30 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 7.28 7.24 m 1H 7.08 6.99 m 1H 6.58 d J 3.6 Hz 1H 4.42 4.30 m 6H 4.09 3.97 m 1H 3.88 t J 4.75 Hz 4H 3.72 s 2H 3.35 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 2.95 d J 11.3 Hz 2H 2.39 t J 8.1 Hz 2H 2.32 2.22 m 2H 2.06 1.95 m 2H 1.77 1.61 m 4H 1.52 t J 7.15 Hz 3H 

N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine 0.41 g was reacted with 4 8 bromomethyl 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl morpholine 1.0 g via General Procedure C to yield 1 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine 0.52 g as a white solid. This intermediate was reacted with 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indol 3 ylboronic acid via General Procedure B to give intermediate N N dimethyl 1 9 methyl 6 morpholino 2 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 amine. The intermediate was suspended in MeOH 3 mL whereupon 3N KOH 0.3 mL was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 50 C. for several hours until the protecting group was removed. Reverse phase purification gave 110. MS Q1 475.3 M . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.46 s 1H 8.66 8.51 m 1H 8.13 d 1H 7.48 7.36 m 1H 7.19 7.08 m 2H 4.26 s 4H 3.93 d 3H 3.83 3.75 m 4H 3.70 s 2H 2.84 d 2H 2.15 s 6H 2.11 1.94 m 3H 1.72 d 2H 1.36 q 2H 

Following the procedures to prepare 104 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl piperazine was converted to 111. LCMS M H 517.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.47 s 1H 8.60 m 1H 8.14 d 1H 7.44 m 1H 7.15 m 2H 4.27 m 4H 3.93 m 2H 3.86 s 4H 3.78 m 4H 2.75 3.31 s br 4H 1.79 1.98 s br 2H 1.43 1.68 s br 2H 

A microwave vessel was charged with dimethyl 1 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 tributylstannanyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 methyl piperidin 4 yl amine 0.4 g in dioxane 8 mL . The vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon. To this mixture was added 3 bromo 5 methyl indole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 0.23 g copper iodide 0.14 g and tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium 0.08 g . The vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon again then the mixture was then irradiated with microwaves at 150 C. for 35 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then filtered through HPLC filter. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue obtained was purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane . The residue obtained was dissolved in anhydrous methanol and 4.0 N HCl in dioxane 6 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the precipitate collected by filtration then dried to yield the title compound 0.04 g 11 as a light yellow solid. MS m e 491 M H . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 2.00 br. s. 2H 2.11 2.21 m 2H 2.45 s 3H 2.72 s 8H 3.31 br. s. 3H 3.86 3.95 m 4H 4.06 4.26 m 4H 4.32 br. s. 2H 7.07 dd J 8.29 1.51 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 8.29 Hz 1H 7.84 s 1H 8.17 s 1H 8.76 br. s. 1H 

2 1 2 Chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol was reacted with 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indol 3 ylboronic acid via General Procedure B to give intermediate 2 1 9 methyl 6 morpholino 2 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol. The intermediate was suspended in MeOH 3 mL whereupon 3N KOH 0.3 mL was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 50 C. for several hours until the protecting group was removed. Reverse phase purification gave 115. MS Q1 490.3 M . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.46 s 1H 8.67 8.51 m 1H 8.13 d 1H 7.53 7.25 m 2H 7.20 7.07 m 2H 4.27 s 4H 4.02 s 1H 3.84 s 3H 3.76 dd 12.2 4H 3.69 s 2H 2.88 d 2H 1.97 t 2H 1.66 d 2H 1.21 dt 3H 1.02 s 6H 

A degassed solution of 9 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl 1 oxa 4 9 diazaspiro 5.5 undecan 3 one 150 mg 0.34 mmol 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 indoleboronic acid 155 mg 0.51 mmol Pd PPh 40 mg 0.035 mmol and CsCO 225 mg 0.69 mmol in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 6 mL and water 3 mL was subjected to microwave irradiation at 140 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give 9 2 1 benzenesulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl 1 oxa 4 9 diazaspiro 5.5 undecan 3 one as a crude oil. Aqueous NaOH 12.5 M 0.4 mL was added to a solution of 9 2 1 benzenesulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl 1 oxa 4 9 diazaspiro 5.5 undecan 3 one in 1 4 dioxane 4 mL and IMS 4 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 90 min and then concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in MeOH then loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to afford a sticky solid. The solid was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH 100 0 to 99 1 to 95 5 followed by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Luna C 18 20 mM EtN in water on a gradient of 20 mM EtN in acetonitrile 90 10 to 5 95 to afford 116 as a white solid 72 mg 40 . LCMS R 5.05 min M H 519.2. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.69 8.64 m 1H 8.45 s 1H 8.15 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.44 7.40 m 1H 7.30 7.22 m 3H 5.91 s 1H 4.17 s 2H 4.08 4.03 m 4H 3.94 3.89 m 4H 3.85 s 2H 3.26 d J 2.6 Hz 2H 2.78 2.69 m 2H 2.47 t J 11.2 Hz 2H 1.96 d J 13.8 Hz 2H 1.77 1.67 m 2H 

A degassed solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl 2 3 morpholin 4 yl azetidin 1 ylmethyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyrimidine 210 mg 0.51 mmol 1 phenylsulfonyl 3 indoleboronic acid 231 mg 0.77 mmol Pd PPh 60 mg 0.052 mmol and CsCO 332 mg 1.03 mmol in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 8 mL and water 4 mL was subjected to microwave irradiation at 150 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to give 5 1 benzenesulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 7 morpholin 4 yl 2 3 morpholin 4 yl azetidin 1 ylmethyl thiazolo 5 4 c pyrimidine as a crude oil. Aqueous NaOH 12.5 M 0.6 mL was added to a solution 5 1 benzenesulfonyl 1H indol 3 yl 7 morpholin 4 yl 2 3 morpholin 4 yl azetidin 1 ylmethyl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine in 1 4 dioxane 6 mL and IMS 6 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h then concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved in MeOH then loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge 10 g . The cartridge was then washed with MeOH and the desired product was subsequently eluted using 2 M NHin MeOH. The eluent was collected and concentrated to afford a sticky solid. The solid was purified by flash chromatography Si PPC DCM MeOH 100 0 to 98 2 to 95 5 followed by trituration from hot MeOH to afford 117 as a tan solid 117 mg 47 . LCMS Method E R 7.47 min M H 492.2. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.65 8.60 m 1H 8.44 s 1H 8.13 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.44 7.39 m 1H 7.31 7.25 m 2H 4.43 t J 4.6 Hz 4H 3.99 s 2H 3.91 t J 4.7 Hz 4H 3.73 t J 4.5 Hz 4H 3.66 t J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.18 3.07 m 3H 2.40 2.31 m 4H 

To a solution of 1 benzenesulfonyl 7 fluoro 1H indole 1.00 g 3.63 mmol in CCl 20 mL was added a solution of saturated sodium bicarbonate 40 mL and bromine 0.19 mL 3.81 mmol at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature for 16 hours the reaction was diluted with DCM and water. The organic extract was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate 10 aqueous sodium thiosulfate dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The product was obtained as an off white solid 1.22 g 95 

To a mixture of dimethyl 1 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 tributylstannanyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl amine 250 mg 0.396 mmol 1 benzenesulfonyl 3 bromo 7 fluoro 1H indole 163 mg 0.460 mmol copper I thiophene 2 carboxylate 37 mg 0.19 mmol and Pd PPh 44 mg 0.038 mmol was added THF 2 mL . The reaction vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon. The reaction mixture was diluted with hexane filtered through a plug of solka floc and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was triturated with hexane and then purified by flash chromatography silica 0 10 MeOH NHOH 9 1 in DCM . The elutant was then concentrated to give an off white solid which was taken up in ethanol 2 mL . A 1 M aqueous NaOH solution 0.25 mL was then added and the resulting mixture was stirred at reflux for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated and triturated with water. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography silica 0 10 MeOH NHOH 9 1 in DCM to give 118 as an off white solid 41.5 mg 30 . LCMS M H 495. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 12.1 s 1H 8.38 d 1H 8.19 d 1H 7.32 s 1H 7.08 m 1H 6.98 m 1H 3.96 m 4H 3.81 m 6H 2.93 d 2H 2.16 s 6H 2.05 t 3H 1.72 d 2H 1.40 m 2H 

A solution of 2 methyl 5 fluoroindole 0.164 g in DMF 6 mL was cooled to 0 C. then sodium hydride 0.066 g added. After 30 min 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.395 g was added. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. After 3 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The resulting residual oil was separated from the aqueous layer and then purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish 119 0.053 g 10 as a yellow solid. MS m e 509 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.33 1.57 m 2H 1.74 d 2H 2.08 t 3H 2.18 s 6H 2.64 s 3H 2.95 d 2H 3.74 3.87 m 6H 3.89 4.04 m 4H 6.42 s 1H 6.98 7.20 m 1H 7.37 m 1H 7.43 s 1H 8.03 m 1H .

A solution of 5 fluoroindole 0.148 g in DMF 6 mL was cooled to 0 C. then sodium hydride 0.06 g added. After 30 min 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.395 g was added. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. After 3 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The solid separated was filtered and then purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish 120 0.252 g 51 as a off white solid. MS m e 495 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.33 1.57 m 2H 1.74 d 2H 2.08 t 3H 2.18 s 6H 2.95 d 2H 3.74 3.87 m 6H 3.89 4.04 m 4H 6.75 d 1H 7.0 7.10 m 1H 7.37 s 1H 7.6 7.7 m 1H 8.33 d 1H 8.5 8.6 d 1H .

To a degassed mixture of 2 methyl 2 4 4 morpholino 2 tributylstannyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl propanamide 394 mg 0.568 mmol 4 bromo 7 fluoro 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H pyrrolo 3 2 c pyridine 168 mg 0.473 mmol copper I iodide 135 mg 0.709 mmol in THF 4 mL was added Pd PPh 30 mg 0.02 mmol . The reaction mixture was reacted in the microwave at 140 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was then filtered through paper and concentrated. The crude product dissolved in DCM and filtered through a column of silica gel 5 MeOH in DCM . The elutant was then concentrated to give a yellow paste which was taken up in ethanol 2 mL and 1 4 dioxane 2 mL . A 12M aqueous NaOH solution was then added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was then loaded onto a Biotage Isolute SPE SCX 2 column. The column was first washed with water MeOH and DCM. The product was eluted with 2 M NHin MeOH and concentrated. The crude was further purified by flash chromatography using a Biotage KP NH column 5 MeOH in DCM to give 121. LCMS M H 539.2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.21 s 1H 8.27 d 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.27 m 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.93 m 1H 3.98 t 4H 3.85 s 2H 3.81 t 4H 2.43 2.58 m 8H 1.08 s 6H 

Following the procedures to prepare 104 racemic cis 3 fluoro N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine was converted to 1 2 1H indol 3 yl 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl 3 fluoro N N dimethylpiperidin 4 amine. The enantiomers of the final product were separated by SFC to give 123. LCMS M H 493.2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.5 s 1H 8.61 m 1H 8.13 m 1H 7.42 m 1H 7.14 m 2H 4.27 s br 4H 3.85 s 3H 3.79 m 6H 3.04 m 1H 2.91 m 1H 2.05 2.29 m 5H 1.59 1.84 m 2H 1.17 t 1H 

To a solution of 6 fluoroindole 1.14 g 8.44 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added potassium hydroxide 0.521 g 9.28 mmol at 0 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 minutes before the addition of iodine 2.57 g 10.1 mmol . After stirring at room temperature with protection from light for 18 hours the reaction was diluted with saturated sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 5 MeOH in DCM to give 3 iodo 6 fluoroindole as a red solid 1.44 g 65.4 .

To a cooled 0 C. solution of 3 iodo 6 fluoroindole 0.50 g 1.92 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added sodium hydride 60 dispersion 115 mg 2.87 mmol . The resulting mixture was then stirred at 0 C. for 5 minutes before the addition of benzenesulfonyl chloride 0.37 mL 2.9 mmol . After stirring at 0 C. for 30 minutes the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with saturated ammonium chloride. The aqueous mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 0 50 gradient EtOAc heptane to give 6 fluoro 3 iodo 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indole 0.852 g quant. .

Step 3 To a degassed mixture of 4 1 9 methyl 6 morpholino 2 tributylstannyl 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl morpholine 200 mg 0.3 mmol 6 fluoro 3 iodo 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indole 75 mg 0.187 mmol copper I thiophene 2 carboxylate 36 mg 0.19 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 3 mL was added Pd PPh 11 mg 0.0093 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated in the microwave at 140 C. for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated and then dissolved in DCM and filtered through a column of silica gel 10 MeOH in DCM . The elutant was then concentrated to give a yellow paste which was taken up in ethanol 2 mL and 1 4 dioxane 10 mL . A 1 M aqueous NaOH solution 1.0 mL was then added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was then loaded onto a Biotage Isolute SPE SCX 2 column. The column was first washed with MeOH. The product was then eluted with 2 M NHin MeOH and concentrated. The crude was further purified by RP HPLC to give 124 12.2 mg 18 . LCMS M H 508.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.5 s 1H 8.58 m 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.21 m 1H 6.99 m 1H 4.26 s br 4H 4.02 s 1H 3.82 s 3H 3.76 m 4H 3.69 s 2H 2.88 m 2H 1.97 m 2H 1.66 m 2H 1.17 m 3H 1.02 s 6H 

To a degassed mixture of 2 methyl 2 4 4 morpholino 2 tributylstannyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl propanamide 150 mg 0.22 mmol 3 bromo 2 methoxymethyl 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indole 82 mg 0.22 mmol copper I thiophene 2 carboxylate 41 mg 0.22 mmol in dioxane 2 mL was added Pd PPh 12 mg 0.011 mmol . The reaction mixture was reacted in the microwave at 140 C. for 35 min. The reaction mixture was filtered through paper and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 20 MeOH in DCM to give a yellow paste which was dissolved in dioxane 5 mL and ethanol 1 mL . A 12 M aqueous solution of NaOH was then added. The resulting mixture was then stirred at 65 C. for 15 hours. The reaction mixture was then loaded onto a Biotage Isolute SPE SCX 2 column. The column was washed with MeOH and the desired product was then eluted with 2 M NHin MeOH and further purified by RP HPLC to give 126 12.4 mg 10.2 . LCMS M H 564.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.48 s 1H 8.55 m 1H 7.44 m 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.10 m 2H 7.05 m 1H 6.93 m 1H 5.19 s 2H 3.90 m 4H 3.83 m 6H 3.47 s 3H 2.42 2.58 m 8H 1.08 s 6H 

To a solution of 2 methoxymethyl 1H indole 57 mg 0.35 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added sodium hydride 60 dispersion 15 mg 0.38 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 minutes before the addition of 2 1 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 morpholino 9H purin 8 yl methyl piperidin 4 yl propan 2 ol 120 mg 0.29 mmol . The mixture was then heated in the microwave at 180 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with water. The mixture was extracted with three times with EtOAc. The combined extracts were washed with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was then purified by flash chromatography 0 100 gradient EtOAc heptane followed by RP HPLC to give 127 29.2 mg 19 . LCMS M H 534.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.18 d 1H 7.57 d 1H 7.20 t 1H 7.12 t 1H 6.66 s 1H 4.98 s 2H 4.25 s br 4H 4.02 s 1H 3.81 s 3H 3.77 m 4H 3.72 s 2H 2.90 d 2H 1.99 m 2H 1.67 m 2H 1.21 m 3H 1.02 s 6H 

Following the procedures for 126 3 bromo 2 cyano 1 phenylsulfonyl 1H indole was converted to 129. LCMS M H 545.2. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.8 s 1H 8.75 d 1H 7.49 d 1H 7.44 s 1H 7.40 t 1H 7.28 t 1H 7.06 m 1H 6.93 m 1H 4.04 m 4H 3.87 s 2H 3.80 m 4H 2.41 2.64 m 8H 1.08 s 6H 

A solution of 5 benzyloxyindole 0.245 g in DMF 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. then sodium hydride 0.06 g added. After 30 min 1 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperidin 4 yl dimethyl amine 0.395 g was added. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The solid separated was filtered and then purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NHOH mixture in dichloromethane . The residue obtained was dissolved in ethanol 30 mL and dichloromethane 20 mL . Palladium on carbon 10 40 mg was added. The mixture was degassed and was purged with hydrogen and continued under a hydrogen balloon overnight. The reaction mixture was filtered through solka floc. The filtrate was concentrated and purified by chromatography silica 0 to 20 of a 49 1 MeOH NH4OH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish 132 0.012 g 15 as a white solid. MS m e 493 M H H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.7 1.8 m 2H 2.0 2.1 d 2H 2.3 m 3H 2.7 s 6H 2.95 d 2H 3.2 m 2H 3.89 4.04 m 10H 6.5 d 1H 6.75 d 1H 6.95 d 1H 7.2 br. s 1H 7.4 s 1H 8.2 d 1H 8.5 d 1H .

A microwave vessel was charged with 2 4 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 tributylstannanyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 0.50 g in dioxane 10 mL . The vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon. To this mixture was added 3 bromo 2 methyl indole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 0.30 g copper thiocarboxylate 0.07 g and tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium 0.084 g . The vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon again then the mixture was irradiated with microwaves at 150 C. for 40 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then filtered through HPLC filter. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue obtained was purified by chromatography silica 0 to 10 of a 49 1 MeOH NH4OH mixture in dichloromethane . The residue obtained was dissolved in anhydrous methanol and 4.0 N HCl in dioxane 20 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h followed by heating at 50 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue obtained was diluted with water and neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium carbonate solution. The precipitated solid was collected by filtration and the residue obtained was purified by chromatography silica 0 to 10 of a 49 1 MeOH NH4OH mixture in dichloromethane to furnish 133 0.057 g 15 as a white solid. MS m e 534 M H . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d ppm 1.1 s 6H 2.6 app. t 4H 2.85 s 3H 3.8 m 6H 3.91 m 4H 6.6 6.7 br. s 2H 7.07 m 2H 7.31 m 2H 8.5 m 1H 11.0 s 1H 

To a solution of 3 bromo 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 0.500 g 2.54 mmol in DCM 25 mL was added dimethyl pyridin 4 yl amine 3 mg 0.02 mmol and boc anhydride 0.554 g 2.54 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and water was added. The solids were collected by filtration and the crude product was dissolved in ethyl acetate. The remaining fine precipitate was filtered and the filtrate concentrated to give 3 bromo pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester as an off white crystalline solid 0.659 g 87 .

Step 2 To a mixture of 2 4 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 tributylstannanyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl isobutyramide 275 mg 0.396 mmol 3 bromo pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 177 mg 0.596 mmol copper I thiophene 2 carboxylate 76 mg 0.40 mmol and Pd PPh 46 mg 0.040 mmol was added 1 4 dioxane 2 mL . The reaction vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon under sonication. The reaction mixture was heated in the microwave at 140 C. for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture volume was doubled with a solution of 10 MeOH in DCM. The mixture was filtered through a plug of solka floc and the filtrate was concentrated. The green residue was triturated with hexane and dried in vacuo. The light green solid was purified by flash chromatography silica 0 10 of a 9 1 MeOH NHOH solution in DCM to give 137 20.6 mg 10 as an off white solid. LCMS M H 521. H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 12.0 s 1H 8.79 s 1 8.39 d 1H 8.37 d 1H 8.23 d 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.07 d 1H 6.95 d 1H 3.97 m 4H 3.83 m 6 2.55 m 4H 2.46 m 4H 1.08 s 6H 

PI3K enzymatic activity was assayed by measuring the amount of product phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 phosphate PIP3 formed from substrate 4 5 phosphatidylinositol 4 5 phosphate PIP2 using a fluorescence polarization displacement assay. The decrease in fluorescence polarization of a fluorescent PIPprobe is measured as it is displaced from a PIP binding protein GRP 1 detector by PI3K catalyzed product. Assays were conducted in 384 well black Proxiplates in the presence of 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 5 glycerol 25 M ATP 10 M PIP Echelon Biosciences 0.05 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammonio 1 propanesulfonate 1 mM dithiothreitol and 2 DMSO. The kinase reactions were initiated by the addition of 40 ng mL p110 p85 300 ng mL p110 p85 40 ng mL p110 or 40 ng mL p110 p85 Upstate Group Millipore Dundee UK and 10 M PIP Echelon Biosciences to the wells. The reactions were stopped at timepoints that yielded a fixed change in fluorescence polarization consistent with initial rate conditions typically 30 minutes by the addition of 12.5 mM EDTA 100 nM GRP 1 detector and 5 nM tetramethylrhodamine labeled PIP TAMRA PIP Echelon Biosciences . After 60 minutes of incubation at room temperature to allow equilibration of labeled and unlabeled PIP3 binding the parallel and perpendicular components of the fluorescence emissions from each sample were measured at an excitation wavelength of 530 nm and an emission wavelength of 590 nm using an Envision fluorescent plate reader with a rhodamine filter PerkinElmer Life and Analytical Sciences Wellesley Mass. . The assay is capable of detecting 0.1 2.0 M PIPproduct. The ICvalues were obtained by fitting the dose dependent inhibition data to a 4 parameter equation using Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 uM. The Formula I compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

Recombinant PI3K p110 isoforms alpha beta and delta may be prepared and purified according to US 2008 0275067 from recombinant PI3K heterodimeric complexes consisting of a p110 catalytic subunit and a p85 regulatory subunit overexpressed using the BAC TO BAC HT baculovirus expression system GIBCO BRL and then purified for use in biochemical assays. The four Class I PI 3 kinases are cloned into baculovirus vectors as follows 

p110 delta A FLAG tagged Eastman Kodak Co. U.S. Pat. No. 4 703 004 U.S. Pat. No. 4 782 137 U.S. Pat. No. 4 851 341 version of human p110.delta Chantry et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1997 272 19236 41 is subcloned using standard recombinant DNA techniques into the BamH1 Xba1 site of the insect cell expression vector pFastbac HTb Life Technologies Gaithersburg Md. such that the clone is in frame with the His tag of the vector.

p110 alpha Similar to the method used for p110 delta described above a FLAG tagged version of p110 alpha Volinia et al 1994 Genomics 24 3 427 77 was subcloned in BamH1 HindIII sites of pFastbac HTb Life Technologies such that the clone was in frame with the His tag of the vector.

p110 beta A p110 beta see Hu et al. 1993 Mol. Cell. Biol. 13 7677 88 clone was amplified from the human MARATHON Ready spleen cDNA library Clontech Palo Alto Calif. according to the manufacturer s protocol using the specified primers.

The p110 delta binding IC50 values and delta alpha selectivity of selected compounds from Table 1 include 

The efficacy of Formula I compound inhibitors of PI3K delta to inhibit the induction and or progression of collagen induced arthritis was tested in mice. DBA1 J male mice Jackson Labs 5 6 weeks of age are acclimatized for one week and are then injected intra dermally at the base of the tail with 0.1 ml of an emulsion of Bovine Type II Collagen 100 mg and an equal volume of Complete Freunds Adjuvant 200 mg . Three weeks later mice are injected intra dermally at the base of the tail with 0.1 ml of an emulsion of Bovine Type II Collagen 100 mg and an equal volume of Incomplete Freunds Adjuvant for boost. Dosing generally starts as soon as animals display signs of joint inflammation or clinical score 1 2.

All mice are evaluated 2 3 times a week for arthritis using a macroscopic scoring system for each paw. At the end of the experiment clinical scores are obtained to evaluate the intensity of edema in the four paws. A score of 0 to 4 is assigned to each paw. Animals are scored 0 when no inflammatory signs swelling and redness are observed in any of the small joints intraphalangeal metacarpophalangeal metatarsophalangeal or large joints wrist carpus ankle tarsus . Animals are scored 1 when very slight to slight inflammation was observed swelling and or redness of paw or one digit 2 moderate edema swelling in two or more joint 3 severe edema gross swelling of the paw with more than two joints involved and 4 when very severe edema severe arthritis of the entire paw and digits is present. The arthritic index for each mouse is evaluated by adding the four scores of the individual paws giving a maximum score of 16. Plasma and serum samples are taken at 1 hour orbital bleed post dose and 24 hrs cardiac puncture post dose. Samples are stored at 20 C. until analysis. At termination the hind paws are transected at the distal tibia just proximal to the tarsal joint. The left and right hind paws are placed in the histology cassettes individually and fixed in 10 formalin. These paws are sent to histology dept for further process.

Materials Bovine Type II collagen immunization grade 2 mg ml 5 ml vial in 0.05 M acetic acid solution store at 20 C. from Chondrex LLC Seattle Wash. Adjuvant complete H37 Ra 6 10 ml box contains 1 mg ml . For use in animal immunological studies for laboratory use store at 4 C. from Difco Laboratories Detroit Mich. 48232 7058 USA. Adjuvant Incomplete H37 Ra 6 10 ml box For use in animal immunological studies for laboratory use store at 4 C. from Difco Laboratories.

Human blood is obtained from healthy volunteers with the following restrictions 1 week drug free non smokers. Blood approximately 20 mls to test 8 compounds is collected by venipuncture into Vacutainer tubes with sodium heparin.

Cynomolgus monkey blood is obtained courtesy of the LAT group from monkeys not previously exposed to or after a washout period from chemical dosing. Additional cyno blood draws may be collected during the course of pharmacokinetic or toxicology studies. Blood 25 30 mls for na ve monkeys or 3 4 mls from monkeys on studies requiring repeated draws is collected by venipuncture into Vacutainer tubes with sodium heparin.

Solutions of Formula I compounds at 1000 or 2000 M in PBS 20 are diluted by three fold serial dilutions in 10 DMSO in PBS for a nine point dose response curve. An aliquot of 5.5 l of each compound is added in duplicate to a 2 ml 96 well plate 5.5 l of 10 DMSO in PBS is added as control and no stimulus wells. Human whole blood HWB 100 l is added to each well. After mixing the plates are incubated at 37 C. 5 CO 100 humidity for 30 minutes. Goat F ab anti human IgM 10 l of a 500 g ml solution 50 g ml final is added to each well except the no stimulus wells with mixing and the plates are incubated for an additional 20 hours. At the end of the 20 hour incubation samples are incubated with florescent labeled antibodies for 30 minutes at 37 C. 5 CO 100 humidity. Include induced control unstained and single stains for compensation adjustments and initial voltage settings. Samples are then lysed with Pharmingen Lyse according to the manufacturer s instructions. Samples are then transferred to a 96 well plate suitable to be run on the AMS 96 well system on the BD Calibur FACs machine. Data acquired and Mean Fluorescence Intensity values were obtained using Cell Quest Software. Results are initially analyzed by FACS analysis software Flow Jo . The IC50 for test compounds is defined as the concentration which decreases by 50 the percent positive of CD69 cells that are also CD20 positive stimulated by anti IgM average of 8 control wells after subtraction of the average of 8 wells for the no stimulus background . The IC50 values are calculated by ActivityBase using Xlfit version 3 equation 201.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

