---

title: Gyroscopic stabilizer
abstract: A gyroscopic stabilizer has a ring mounted at a missile rocket nozzle exit for rotation about the exit. The ring bears vanes extended inwardly into gases exiting from the nozzle and configured for rotation by the exiting gases so that the rotating mass of the ring gyroscopically stabilizes the missile. The ring may be mounted by a bearing having rolling elements or sliding surfaces. The axial length of the ring may be substantially less than its diameter. The ring has a low moment of inertia and is accelerated to stabilizing speed by vanes minimally impeding the exiting gases. When the stabilizer is used on a rocket propelled missile launched from a tube, the missile is fully stabilized in the tube before burnout and there is no rotational friction between the tube and the missile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08581160&OS=08581160&RS=08581160
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08581160
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to missile stabilization by rotation and relates to rockets having an element rotated by gas discharge.

It is well known to gyroscopically stabilize an elongated body such as a football bullet or rocket propelled missile by rotation of the entire body about its longitudinal axis. While it is conceptually possible to achieve such stabilization by rotation of a portion of such a body insofar as known to the applicant no such arrangement for gyroscopic stabilization has been deployed to any extent if at all despite possible advantages.

For example in unguided shoulder launched recoilless rocket munitions the current state of the art is rotation of an entire munition around its axis by fins which pop out at the tail of the munition by rifling grooves within a launcher tube engaging the munition or by fins or cutouts disposed at a rocket nozzle for impingement by rocket exhaust gases.

With these munitions rocket gas generation must end before the munition has left the launching tube to prevent injury to the operator and is typically in the order of 0.01 second. Also in these munitions simplicity and low cost are essential so that no active guidance can be provided and the munition is guided solely by directing its launching tube.

Pop out fins do not begin to rotate a munition until after it has exited its launcher so that a munition with pop out fins is subject to misdirection immediately upon exiting the tube as by wind forces tipping by gravity or residual unbalanced gas forces. Also with pop out fins there are many parts to be assembled the fins create excess drag they may engage objects along the trajectory and the shock of pop out may damage the munition.

Rifling adds to the weight and expense of the launcher creates an unbalanced force and incurs friction losses.

With fins or cutouts for impingement by rocket exhaust the burn time is extremely short and the entire munition is relatively heavy a useful amount of rotational inertia cannot be obtained without large internal nozzle features that impede gas flow and cause thrust loss. Also the munition spins against a launching tube incurring friction losses. Such thrust and friction losses also occur when a munition is rotated by auxiliary nozzles having a circumferential direction.

The advantages of rotating less than all of a munition for gyroscopic stabilization are recognized in U.S. Pat. No. 6 666 144 which issued to Kim et al on 23 Dec. 2003 and in U.S. Pat. No. 2 611 317 issuing to Africano on 23 Sep. 1952. However in these patents the rotating part has a axial length substantially greater than its diameter and thus apparently a relatively high moment of inertia.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 666 144 discloses a rocket motor and warhead system where the warhead is decoupled from the rocket motor so the entire motor can spin separately. The motor is spun by flutes machined in the rocket nozzle body. Relative motion between the motor and warhead is provided by annular bearings typically made from a plastic material such as polytetrafluoroethylene or acetal and a dry film lubricant may be applied to reduce friction. Such a bearing is stated to be less expensive than a ball bearing and to not degrade during storage as do lubricants used with ball bearings. It is apparent that this patent does not disclose decoupling of a portion of a rocket motor from the rest of the motor. Accordingly the disclosed decoupled motor has a relatively higher moment of inertia than any lesser portion of the motor so that internal nozzle features which impede gas flow are required to a greater extent than with such a lesser motor portion.

U.S. Pat. No. 2 611 317 discloses a rocket projectile in which a conical nozzle exit portion is rotationally mounted on the rest of the motor and projectile by a ball bearing at the nozzle throat. The nozzle portion is provided with internal vanes responsive to the flow of propellent gases to rotate the nozzle portion. This patent is restricted to rotating the entire conical rearward portion of the nozzle. It is apparent that this conical rearward portion has a relatively higher moment of inertia than any lesser portion of the nozzle or motor so that internal nozzle features which impede gas flow are required to a greater extent than with such a lesser portion.

Also in U.S. Pat. No. 2 611 317 the conical portion is mounted rotationally at the nozzle throat where the temperature and pressure are relatively high with attendant sealing difficulties particularly at ball bearings having the above mentioned storage problems. Further the conical portion is cantilevered from the rest of the motor at the bearing and seal region so that precision fitting and careful balance would be required for maximum effectiveness.

The present invention in an exemplary embodiment utilizes a ring rotationally mounted on a propelled body and rotated by at least one fluid flow associated with propulsion of the body. For example the fluid flow may be air flowing externally of the body due to passage of the body through the atmosphere or in particular may be gases exiting from a rocket nozzle for propelling the body. The mass of the ring is selected so that at the rotational speed provided by the flow the rotating ring gyroscopically stabilizes the body.

Generally a propelled body is elongated along an axis which corresponds to the direction in which the body is propelled and the features of the body generally have at many places along the axis a circular cross section about the axis. Such an axis is also the central axis of a ring embodying the present invention.

The ring is rotated by vanes extending generally radially from the ring into the fluid flow and configured in any suitable manner as in the turbine art so that impingement of the flow on the vanes motivates the ring rotationally about its axis. The ring and the vanes may be mounted in any suitable disposition in relation to a propelled body for extension of the vanes into the desired flow. Thus the vanes may extend radially outwardly from the ring into air flow externally or the body or the vanes may extend radially inwardly of the ring into rocket propulsion gases flowing centrally of the ring. In some applications and exemplary embodiments it may be desirable to provide a ring of the subject invention with vanes extending inwardly and outwardly for driving the ring by fluid flows both internally and externally of the ring.

In an exemplary embodiment the present invention is particularly effective with such a ring rotationally mounted on a rocket nozzle of a missile. The ring is disposed at and around the exit of the nozzle for rotation by propulsion gases exiting from the nozzle and centrally through the ring. In this exemplary embodiment only inwardly extending vanes are required and the external diameter of the ring would be somewhat less than that of a launching tube for the missile. These gases may have a velocity of as much as 6000 feet per second in the shoulder launched missile application described above where the missile is fully accelerated by a rocket burning out in the launching tube. The ring may at the same time and by vanes that minimally impede the exiting gases be rotationally accelerated to such a speed that only a relatively light and low moment of inertia ring is needed for gyroscopic stabilization of the entire missile. In the above application a ring embodying the principles of the present invention may have the necessary weight and moment of inertia with an axial length less than its diameter or even not more one fourth of its diameter.

Any suitable bearing arrangement providing low friction in both the radial and longitudinal directions may be used to mount the a ring of the present invention on a corresponding nozzle.

With the above identified shoulder launched recoilless rocket munitions where rocket gas generation is generally in the order of 0.01 second a bearing arrangement at the rocket nozzle exit will not be subjected to a relatively high temperature if not directly impacted by the exhaust gas. As a result conventional bearing structures and materials which are not especially heat resistant may be effective in the practice of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

Conventional ball or roller bearings conventionally lubricated may be used with the inner race being part of or attached to a rocket nozzle of otherwise conventional construction and with the outer race being part of or attached to a stabilizing ring of the present invention.

However where simple and inexpensive construction is important and where rocket gas generation is in the order of only 0.01 seconds such a ring may be mounted by a bearing having sliding surfaces disposed between solid materials even though thrust loads may be high. Such surfaces may employ an anti friction material such as polytetrafluoroethylene or graphite either in materials filled therewith or as a dry lubricant or might be hardened smooth steel surfaces lubricated with appropriate grease. The sliding surfaces may be a portion of a unitary nozzle or a unitary stabilizing ring or may be a layer or an insert applied to the nozzle or ring.

A nozzle constructed of graphite composite material may give a satisfactory anti friction surface. Further this nozzle also may have sufficient strength to withstand the necessary forward acceleration force on a stabilizing ring of the present invention and also withstand with gas thrust forces acting rearwardly on the rotating vanes of the ring.

A bearing for mounting a rotating ring at the exit of the rocket nozzle regardless of whether the bearing contact is by rolling elements or surfaces of solid materials may be assembled by a pair of annular elements. The pair of elements have the bearing contact between the elements and may be connected by screw threads arranged so that the rotational thrust of the ring does not disconnect the annular elements. With such a bearing one of the annular elements may be the ring itself and either may be a rolling element race or associated with a sliding bearing surface.

It may be desirable to provide a certain amount of sliding friction between bearing surfaces mounting a rotating rocket projectile stabilizing ring of the present invention so as to rotate the rest or some portion of the projectile at a relatively low speed for balancing out imperfections in the projectile s construction

It is a general object of the present invention to provide improved accuracy in rocket propelled devices particularly shoulder launched missiles.

A more specific object is to provide such improved accuracy without rotation of the body of a missile so as to eliminate rotational friction between the body and a launching tube and spinning body Magnus effects after launching.

Another more specific object is to provide such improved accuracy by gyroscopic stabilization that is fully effective before exit of a missile from a launching tube so as at exit to avoid tip off errors and immediately resist deviations by the wind.

A further object is to provide in a shoulder launched or other rocket propelled device greater gyroscopic stabilization than can be obtained by rotating the entire device or a major portion thereof.

A particular object is to provide such gyroscopic stabilization in a missile propelled by a rocket that burns out before exiting a launching tube.

Still another object is to provide the above advantages with minimal impedance to rocket nozzle gas flow.

Yet another object is to provide the above objects with a structure which is light in weight and easily adaptable to existing missiles launching tubes and logistics.

Still further objects are to provide the above and other objects by simple economical sturdy and fully effective structures for shoulder launched missiles and other rocket propelled devices.

Referring with greater particularity to the drawings show a first embodiment of the present invention as a gyroscopic stabilizing ring depicted in a schematically represented weapon system including a shoulder launched unguided missile generally indicated by numeral and disposed in a launching tube from within which the missile is launched. Such a missile generally has a forward warhead portion which is not involved in the present invention and has a rearward rocket motor or rocket portion which is indicated generally by numeral and which for purposes of exposition may be considered as rearward of dash line .

Rocket motor has a rearwardly diverging conical rocket nozzle disposed in propulsive relation to the rest of the missile and terminating in a circular exit opening of predetermined diameter for propulsion gases generated by the motor and indicated in by arrow so as to propel missile in a direction opposite arrow . The exiting of propulsion gases from opening is initiated before the missile leaves the launching tube and continues for a predetermined length of time. In shoulder launched missiles the length of the tube and amount of rocket propellant are selected so that as mentioned above exiting of propulsion gases from the nozzle terminates before the missile leaves the launching tube generally in not more than about 0.01 second.

It is evident that missile is a propelled body and that gases are a fluid flow associated with propulsion of the body and pass in a predetermined direction relative to the body. This direction being along a central axis shown in along which the missile is elongated and propelled. The central axis is the central axis of ring nozzle and opening as well as the rest of the missile which generally is configured with circular cross sections and is thus generally cylindrical.

Referring again to it is seen that ring is mounted on nozzle at opening and coaxially thereof for passage of propulsion gases axially of and centrally through the ring . The inner diameter of the ring corresponding to the diameter of opening by being substantially the same for least disturbance of the flow of the gases.

More particularly the ring is shown as so mounted by a bearing disposed on the nozzle such a bearing is indicated by numeral in and by numeral in . The bearing serving to position the ring axially in relation to the nozzle and provide for rotation of the ring relative to nozzle and about its exit opening . This rotation is provided by bearing being a ball bearing and bearing utilizing sliding surfaces. Particular arrangements of these bearings being described in greater detail below.

Ring bears a plurality of turbine like vanes which extend radially inwardly of the ring and may be disposed so as to extend into propulsion gases . The vanes are configured so that the flow of these gases impinging on the vanes motivates the ring rotationally about axis so that rotation of the ring as indicated by arrow in tends to gyroscopically stabilize missile the mass and moment of inertia of the ring being selected for this purpose.

Vanes are fixedly connected to the ring generally as shown in the Figures by being unitarily constructed therewith in any suitable manner. The ring and vanes may be constructed of any suitable material such that the rotating elements associated with the ring have a desired moment of inertia for stabilizing missile . If required the material can be selected to withstand the temperature and erosion of propulsion gases . However in the above described shoulder launched missile application of the present invention no heat resistant materials are required.

Also in this exemplary embodiment where the corresponding fluid flow such as gases has satisfactory velocity characteristics and where the corresponding vanes such as vanes are suitably configured to drive a stabilizing ring for example corresponding to ring to a rotational speed sufficient to stabilize gyroscopically a body such as missile the ring may be narrow axially. Since the ring will accordingly have a low moment of inertia the ring may be accelerated to stabilize rotational speed by vanes minimally impeding the exiting gases.

More particularly and as seen in where the inner diameter of stabilizing ring is about the same as the diameter of the nozzle opening the axial length of the ring may be not more than one fourth of the opening diameter diameter and thus less than this diameter or the outer diameter of the ring.

The gyroscopic stabilizer structure just described and shown in may be particularly effective when used in a method mentioned above for stabilizing rocket propelled shoulder launched missiles typified by missile .

In this method propulsion gases from opening may rotate ring during a length of time beginning at initiation of rocket gas generation and may terminate shortly before missile exits from its launching tube so that rocket burnout occurs in the launching tube. This length of time is such that gases impinge on vanes and drive ring and its associated rotating elements to a rotational speed sufficient for gyroscopic stabilization of missile . These events occur before exiting launching tube with a particular moment of inertia of ring with particular velocity characteristics of gases such as its impulse and variation during the length of time and with a configuration of vanes adapted for these velocity characteristics. This stabilization may be achieved as stated above by vanes such as vanes which minimally impede gases .

Based on this method a rocket propelled missile exemplified by missile is fully stabilized in its launching tube for example tube before rocket burnout occurs in the tube. Accordingly and during launching there is no rotational friction between the tube and the missile.

One skilled in the arts of rocket propelled missiles and rotating fluid driven devices may be able to determine effective structural and propulsive parameters for gyroscopic stabilization in accordance with the present invention corresponding to missile .

Another embodiment of a gyroscopic stabilizer of the present invention is represented in where a gyroscopic stabilizing ring is mounted externally of a body by a bearing which positions the ring axially in relation to the body and provides for rotation of the ring about the body . Bearing is depicted as a ball bearing but any suitable bearing may be used as discussed below. The body is propelled through a fluid so that there is a flow as indicated by arrow of the fluid external to and axially of the ring . The ring has a plurality of vanes extending radially outward from it into flow so that the flow impinges on the vanes and motivates the ring rotationally about its axis. The resulting rotation of the ring tending to stabilize gyroscopically the body.

The fluid may be atmospheric air as with a surface weapon or may be water as with a submarine vehicle. In any case the ring is provided with a suitable mass and configuration of its vanes so that in an intended application a device represented fragmentarily by body is stabilized in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Since ring is driven by flow of fluid through which body passes ring and vanes need not be disposed at any particular location along the body. Accordingly in body is depicted as extending forward and rearward of the ring.

A further embodiment of a gyroscopic stabilizer of the present invention is represented in which shows a gyroscopic stabilizing ring mounted on a body by any suitable bearing which as with bearing positions the ring axially in relation to the body and provides for rotation of the ring about the body . Ring is disposed so that there is a fluid flow centrally through the ring and also a fluid flow externally thereof. These flows being in directions generally along the axis of the ring. Flow may be propulsion gas as with ring body then being a nozzle corresponding to nozzle and flow may be in fluid through which body is propelled by flow . Ring bears vanes extending radially inwardly into flow and bears vanes extending radially outwardly into flow . Vanes and are appropriately configured in relation to flows and so that each of these flows which are associated with propulsion of body can motivate the ring rotationally about its axis and the resulting rotation of the ring tends to gyroscopically stabilize the body.

In the various embodiments of the present invention bearings and are shown as mounting the corresponding gyroscopic stabilizing rings and on the associated missile or propelled body or . It is mentioned above that the bearing may have rolling contact as with bearings and or sliding contact as with bearing . In particular applications of the subject invention rolling or sliding contact may be advantageous. Particular structures and materials for these purposes will shortly be described with reference to which shows a ball bearing structure identified by numeral and to which shows a bearing structure identified by numeral and employing sliding contact.

In either case axial forces due to impingement of fluid flows and on the corresponding vanes may be transferred to the associated missile related rocket nozzle or body without axial displacement of the ring along its axis relative to the missile nozzle or body. Moments due to gyroscopic reaction in planes intersecting this axis must be transferred to the missile nozzle or body without displacement of the ring axially or transversely so that these moments can provide the gyroscopic stabilization of the present invention.

More specifically in the embodiment of bearings and provide ring and nozzle with connecting elements such that the ring is maintained in coaxial disposition to nozzle exit for rotation relative thereto by propulsion gases . Accordingly the ring is maintained in an axial disposition relative to the nozzle for transfer of axial forces and moments between the nozzle and the ring .

A bearing mounting a gyroscopic stabilizing ring or of the present invention and providing the above described transfers of forces and moments must not have enough rotational friction to impede rotation of the ring by the corresponding fluid flow to the extent that stabilizing rotational speed is not attained.

Bearing structures and have common features due to similarities in their function and assembly. These features may be identified by the terms used in the claims where a claim covers common features. The numerals used in with structure have a numerical value ten greater than the corresponding numerals used in with structure .

It is apparent from that structures and have opposing force and moment transfer surfaces borne by circular elements coaxially related to gyroscopic stabilizing ring . These elements being screwthreadably connected as described below. Surfaces and of these elements are sometimes termed second bearing surfaces in the claims and rotate with the ring. Surfaces and of these elements are sometimes termed first bearing surfaces in the claims and are fixed to missile at its nozzle . It may be seen that surfaces and are disposed in facing relation axially of ring as are surfaces and .

It is also apparent that structures and have respective first annular mounting elements and which are portions of nozzle and have second annular mounting elements and which are respective portions of ring . In elements and are connected by mounting elements indicated generally by numeral and elements and are connected by elements indicated generally by numeral . Elements includes a ball which is one ball of a ball bearing.

In element includes an annular bearing ring . Ring extends around mounting element which is the rearward portion of nozzle . Rotation therebetween being prevented in any suitable manner as by screws one of which is indicated by numeral . Ring in an exemplary embodiment may be constructed of any suitable ant friction material and have a cross section of an elongated hexagonal shape so that the ring has a forward sliding bearing surface and a rearward sliding bearing surface .

In connecting elements include a connecting ring disposed around mounting element the ring may bear a third bearing surface facing second bearing surface . In correspondingly connecting elements include a connecting ring disposed around mounting element . Ring bearing a third bearing surface facing second bearing surface .

In connecting elements include first screwthreads which are coaxially related to and borne by gyroscopic stabilizing ring and may be disposed about mounting member outwardly of ball . In correspondingly connecting elements include first screwthreads which are coaxially related to and borne by gyroscopic stabilizing ring and may be disposed about mounting member outwardly of bearing ring .

In connecting element includes second screwthreads disposed on connecting ring and disposed to engage first screwthreads so as to draw stablilizing ring and nozzle together with their respective mounting members and into the assembled relationship as shown. Likewise as shown in connecting element includes second screwthreads disposed on connecting ring and disposed to engage first screwthreads so as to draw stablilizing ring and nozzle together with their respective mounting members and into the depicted assembled relationship.

It is apparent from that surfaces and have a bearing function in relation to corresponding axially facing surfaces and . Surfaces and are disposed for heat conduction respectively from propulsion gases at the interior of nozzle and vanes by way respectively of members and . Since the predetermined length for generation of propulsion gas with the above described shoulder launched missiles is not more than about 0.01 the amount of heat transferred from the propulsion gas to members and is limited. Accordingly this bearing function is not impaired by this limited amount of heat even though ring is constructed of an anti friction not normally suited to the temperatures of propulsion gases such as gases .

Although the present invention has been herein shown and described in connection with what is conceived as the exemplary embodiments it is recognized that departures may be made therefrom within the scope of the invention which is not limited to the illustrative details disclosed.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

