---

title: Systems and methods for communicating documents via an autonomous multiple-function peripheral device
abstract: A multiple-function peripheral device includes a packet-switched network interface and an autonomous application programming interface. The application programming interface requests image information from a remote server via the packet-switched network interface in a first mode of operation. The application programming interface sends image information to a remote device via the packet-switched network interface in a second mode of operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08116303&OS=08116303&RS=08116303
owner: Xpedite Systems, LLC
number: 08116303
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100822
---
The present application is a continuation in part CIP of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 852 315 filed on Sep. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Communicating Documents and a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 207 310 filed on Sep. 9 2008 entitled Systems and Methods for Communicating Documents Via an Autonomous Multiple Function Peripheral Device which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

Facsimile fax technology has been a successful means to transmit documents electronically. With the emergence of publicly accessible data networks and electronic mail e mail applications it appeared as though that fax communications would be rapidly replaced by e mail. However it is now clear that the two technologies will co exist for a while.

In a deployment of fax machines in an office environment equipped with Internet access a fax server is connected to the public switched telephone network PSTN by one or more dedicated lines such as T1 E1. As observed from the perspective of the fax server the PSTN is both the source of incoming faxes as well as the destination for outgoing faxes. The fax server is also connected to a packet switched network which provides connections to users. In this way the fax server provides desktop faxing capabilities via various e mail applications. The fax server can also be used to provide fax back transaction confirmation fax broadcasting or automated form processing.

The fax server uses specialized interface circuits for converting the fax information communicated by the users. When a document arrives at the fax server the fax server converts the document into a format that is suitable for transmission over the PSTN. Thereafter the fax server sends the converted document over the PSTN via its dedicated interface circuits. Conversely for a fax arriving at the fax server the fax server identifies the destination user converts the incoming fax transmission into a format suitable for delivery to the destination user and sends the converted document to the destination user over the internal IP network.

In a common enterprise the users are not only connected to the fax server via the internal internet protocol IP network but are also connected to an internetworking gateway which connects the internal IP network to the Internet. The gateway allows a user to communicate electronically with other parties connected to the Internet. Such electronic communications may include store and forward messages e.g. e mail real time one way communications e.g. live TV real time two way communications e.g. Internet telephony etc. .

The gateway is typically connected to an Internet Service Provider ISP . The connection between the gateway and the ISP or the PSTN is typically established via dedicated T1 E1 lines or in some cases optical fiber similar to the connection between the fax server and the PSTN.

It is apparent that a first set of dedicated T1 E1 lines are required to provide fax functionality and a second set of dedicated T1 E1 lines or other data transmission media are required to provide Internet access. The use of two sets of dedicated data transmission media is expensive to maintain and moreover it is possible to experience the situation in which either set of lines is idle while the other set is being used at its maximum capacity. In such a situation the capacity of the underused set of lines goes to waste. The requirement for dedicated hardware for interfacing with the PSTN translates into a further non negligible expense for the enterprise.

The introduction of data network interfaces to remote offices and home offices enables remote enterprise workers and home users to communicate electronically with the enterprise and with other parties connected to the Internet. Such electronic communications may include store and forward messages e.g. e mail real time one way communications e.g. live TV real time two way communications e.g. Internet telephony etc. .

Economical multiple function peripheral devices suitable for remote office and home office use enable various combinations of print copy and scan to store functionality to end users. To keep these multiple function peripheral devices affordable manufacturers have relied on the processing capability and applications that operate on a local computing device and have not integrated simple mail transfer protocol functionality in these devices. Thus an operating computing device has been required to receive and produce a hard copy of a facsimile message via these multiple function peripheral devices.

Accordingly it would be desirable to develop systems and methods that overcome these shortcomings in the integration and flexibility of fax functionality.

Systems and methods that communicate documents to and from a multiple function peripheral MFP via an autonomous application programming interface and a data network are invented and disclosed. The autonomous application programming interface enables the MFP to send and receive image information without a computing device. Received image information can be in the form of a stored fax intended for a user of the MFP. A fax is sent from the MFP as image information via a data network to a fax service. The fax service is configured to interpret information in the image information and deliver the same.

An embodiment of a multiple function peripheral device comprises a packet switched network interface communicatively coupled to a translator via a data network and an autonomous application programming interface configured to request image information from a remote server via the packet switched network interface in a first mode of operation.

An embodiment of a method for processing documents includes the following steps associating a destination identifier with a multiple function peripheral device coupled to a data network receiving a facsimile format message intended for the multiple function peripheral device as defined by the destination identifier storing the facsimile format message and upon receipt of a request from the multiple function peripheral device communicating the facsimile format message via commands in hypertext transfer protocol.

Another embodiment of a method for processing documents includes the following steps registering a user of a multiple function peripheral device associating the user with an identifier that uniquely identifies the multiple function peripheral device on a data network accepting image information via commands in hypertext transfer protocol from the multiple function peripheral device converting the image information into a facsimile format message and communicating the facsimile format message.

Other devices methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one skilled in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. All such additional devices methods features and advantages are defined and protected by the accompanying claims.

Systems and methods that communicate documents are invented and disclosed. A multiple function peripheral MFP coupled to a data network in an enterprise environment sends and receives fax messages absent fax modems and the PSTN. Fax messages are received at a fax server or translator. The translator converts and appends the received PSTN facsimile to an image format file as an e mail message or extracts the image format file information and appends the same in an e mail attachment. Both tagged image file format TIFF and portable document format PDF are supported. In an alternative embodiment the received fax is converted into commands using a printer command language PCL . The PCL commands are directed to the destination MFP which generates a hard copy representation of the fax in accordance with the commands. The e mail message with the attached fax message is forwarded via one of two methods. The methods are selectable depending on user preference.

The first method forwards the e mail message from the translator to an e mail server where the message is stored until application software operable on the destination MFP requests the stored e mail message using an e mail account assigned to the MFP. The application software receives the e mail message with the attached fax discards the e mail message and prints the fax. In some embodiments the MFP alerts a designated individual that a fax has been printed. Otherwise the fax is available in the output bin for pickup and distribution to an addressee or for designated distribution.

The second method uses an e mail delivery agent within the translator to forward the e mail message to a message transfer agent MTA . The e mail delivery agent uses the destination phone number extracted from the PSTN fax to identify a destination domain. The e mail delivery agent performs a domain name system DNS lookup for information associated with the identified destination domain. A mail exchange MX record provided by a client of a fax service is used to identify a mail server for processing the message. The MTA relays the e mail message in accordance with the client s internal DNS mechanism. In one embodiment a specific device name is used. In other embodiments a client specific internal IP address is used to route the e mail message to an SMTP server in the designated MFP. When more than one mail exchange record is included with the e mail message the mail exchange records can be prioritized with a preference number that indicates the order in which the MFPs should be used. This enables the use of primary and backup MFPs for processing the fax. Again the MFP receives the e mail message with the attached fax discards the e mail message and prints the fax. As described above the MFP can be configured to alert a designated individual that a fax is available at the MFP. The designated individual need not be an addressee listed on the fax.

The MFP scans an outgoing document in fax emulation or local area network fax mode. The operator of the MFP enters a destination phone number just as with a fax machine. However instead of using a fax modem and the PSTN at the customer premise to communicate the fax message to its intended recipient the present system converts the scanned document into an image format file that is attached to an e mail message addressed to a fax service or translator. Again both TIFF and PDF are supported. No additional address information is required from the operator of the MFP. The MTA which can be integrated in the MFP or enabled in a local area network coupled device can be configured to provide one or more encoded commands in the generated e mail message. The MTA generates a source address in accordance with identifying information extracted from the MFP. The translator identifies and applies the encoded commands to the attachment to generate an outgoing fax. The outgoing fax is transmitted via the PSTN to the destination phone number. A delivery confirmation is returned to the sending or originating MFP via the e mail server or MTA. The delivery confirmation may be sent as an e mail message or as an attachment to an e mail message.

In one embodiment a user identifier is associated with the outgoing fax instead of or in addition to the MFP specific identifier. When this is the case the system can use the user identifier when generating the fax coversheet and when returning a confirmation. In this embodiment a fax confirmation can be forwarded to a particular user s e mail account rather than or in addition to the MFP that was used to scan the document. A user identifier can be communicated to the MFP in multiple ways. For example a card reader can be used to scan information available on an employee identification card a radio frequency receiver can be used to scan radio frequency identifiers from passive or active tags that can be incorporated in an employee identification card or a user specific code can be entered via the user interface on the MFP. Preferably the MFP or an external MTA will have a lookup table that can be used to determine the user of the MFP. The translator can use the user information to forward the confirmation message to the specified user.

In one embodiment a MFP coupled to a data network in a small office or home environment sends and receives fax messages absent a fax modem an external MTA a computing device and the PSTN. A user of a network based fax service shares personal information with a network based service and receives a username and password. Fax messages are received on behalf of the user at a network coupled fax server or translator. The translator converts and stores the received PSTN facsimile in an image format file as a collection of print commands or as a page of information suitable for a browser application. The MFP uses an autonomous application programming interface to periodically request stored facsimile messages from the service. The service identifies and forwards any stored facsimile messages intended for the user associated with the username and password via the network directly to the MFP. In turn the MFP generates a hard copy of the received facsimile messages. The MFP is further configured to scan and communicate a document for delivery in a facsimile format by the fax service.

An optional feature forwards a copy of facsimile format messages to an identified destination. The optional feature can be enabled at an enterprise level or a user level. The copy may be forwarded upon receipt by the fax service or concurrently or subsequent to delivery of the facsimile message to the MFP. The identified destination can be an email address a fax address i.e. a phone number or a user list that associates both a destination email address and a fax address with an individual.

Having generally described operation of the systems and methods for communicating documents various additional embodiments will be described with respect to . is a functional block diagram illustrating an embodiment of an example network environment. Network environment includes PSTN data network and customer network . Translator is coupled to PSTN via link and data network via link . An e mail server is coupled to data network via link . Customer network is coupled to data network via link .

E mail server is a data network coupled MTA or system of MTAs used to route e mail and serve e mail by storing e mail messages and supporting customer access using post office protocol POP internet message access protocol IMAP or other protocols.

Translator includes PSTN interface packet switched interface and engine . PSTN interface makes the necessary data and signal translations to send and receive data including fax signal transmissions via PSTN . Similarly packet switched interface makes the necessary data and signal translations to send and receive data packets via data network . Engine includes a processor and memory not shown to enable processing of incoming and outgoing fax documents.

Customer network includes MTA MFP MFP and MFP . The number of MTAs and MFPs within customer network may be expanded as desired to meet the fax communication and printing needs of the supported enterprise. MFP is coupled to MTA via link . MFP is coupled to MTA via link . MFP is coupled to MTA via link . In turn MTA is coupled to data network via link . MTA receives and relays incoming e mail messages and associated attachments in accordance with the customer network s domain name system which assigns an Internet protocol address to each physical device coupled to customer network . In addition MTA generates an e mail message with an image format file attachment and forwards the e mail message in accordance with the phone number entered by a user of one of MFP MFP and MFP . MTA will include one or both of an MFP identifier and a user identifier in the generated e mail message.

It is important to note that the network environment illustrated in is not the only contemplated embodiment. For example either or both of the translator and the e mail server may be implemented within and under the management and control of customer network . In addition a single MTA is illustrated in communication with MFP MFP and MFP within customer network . Alternatively the MTA functionality can be implemented within application software and or firmware operable within each of MFP MFP and MFP such as with SMTP server SMTP server and SMTP server . It should be further understood that each of the illustrated communication links with data network such as link link and link or internal links within customer network such as link link and link may be partially or entirely enabled wirelessly.

Engine includes software and or firmware that detects and processes a received fax message. That is engine includes conversion logic message generation logic and communication logic . Conversion logic is configured to convert the fax format message into an image format file. In this regard conversion logic can be configured to convert the fax into a TIFF or a PDF file. Message generation logic is configured to generate an e mail message addressed to the intended recipient of the fax message and attach the image format file. Message generation logic uses information from dialed number identification service DNIS store as well as account store to address the message. DNIS store includes information that is used by the message generation logic to direct an inbound fax message to the appropriate e mail address. In the illustrated embodiment a client generated MX record includes information that can be used to direct the e mail message either to e mail server or to MTA . Account store includes a unique phone number and e mail address for each MFP e.g. MFP in the system. Communication logic forwards an appropriately configured e mail message and the attachment to MTA via link link and link . Alternatively communication logic sends the e mail message and the attachment to an e mail account enabled by e mail server via link link and link .

When the MTA receives the e mail message and attachment relay logic interprets the name of the destination MFP and uses a local DNS mechanism to identify the local IP address. Once the local IP address is identified MTA forwards the e mail message and attachment accordingly. In the illustrated embodiment the e mail message and the attachment are designated for delivery to MFP via link . Otherwise in accordance with a configured parameter SMTP server operable on the MFP periodically sends a request to e mail server to forward e mail messages in store that are addressed to MFP . In response e mail server forwards the appropriately addressed e mail messages from store along with their attachments to SMTP server .

In addition to SMTP server MFP includes software and or firmware that processes a received e mail message. That is MFP includes discard e mail logic and print attachment logic . Discard e mail logic strips the attachment from its host e mail message. Print attachment logic renders the information in the image format file into a hard copy representation of the received fax message .

MFP includes software and or firmware that processes a document. That is MFP includes scan in fax mode logic and generate image file logic . Scan in fax mode logic receives a destination phone number and captures an image of each page of the document . Generate image file logic converts the captured image into a image format file. As further illustrated in MFP can be configured to receive user identifier . As described above a user identifier can be communicated by any number of various mechanisms. The user identifier can be entered via a user interface on MFP . The user identifier can be received via a passive or active radio frequency identification tag worn or otherwise attached to an operator of the MFP . In addition the user identifier can be received from a badge scanner coupled to the MFP . Regardless of the mechanism for communicating the user identifier MFP communicates the image file and the MFP identifier and or user identifier via link to MTA .

MTA includes software or firmware that further processes a document. In this regard MTA includes message generation logic attachment logic and communication logic . Message generation logic creates an e mail message. The e mail message includes a to field entry with the destination phone number inserted as a prefix concatenated to a server name and an extension of an e mail account associated with translator . Attachment logic appends or otherwise associates the image file as an attachment to the created e mail message. Communication logic sends the generated e mail message and the attachment to translator via link link and link .

Engine within translator includes software and or firmware that detects and processes a received e mail message. That is engine includes discard message logic format logic and communication logic . Discard message logic removes the attachment from the received e mail message. Format logic in accordance with one or more encoded commands in the e mail message adds and appropriately formats a cover sheet to be sent with the fax message. Communication logic forwards appropriately translated fax format information via PSTN to the destination phone number.

Task bar includes a set of pushbuttons arranged left to right that when selected perform a respective operational task open a tool configure various application parameters etc. As is known each of the pushbuttons may be labeled with an icon indicative of the associated operation tool or configuration item to be manipulated.

Header includes a set of data entry fields and a configuration or edit panel. Specifically header includes from field to field CC field subject field and attachment field . Each of from field to field CC field subject field and attachment field are configured to receive and or display alphanumeric strings. From field is arranged to receive and display a first alphanumeric string that identifies the source of the message in message body . To field is arranged to receive and display a second alphanumeric string that identifies an intended destination for the message in message body . CC field is arranged to receive and display a third alphanumeric string that identifies additional parties or destinations that are to receive a copy of the message in message body . Subject field is arranged to receive and display a fourth alphanumeric string that discloses what the message in message body concerns. Attachment field is arranged to receive and display a fifth alphanumeric string that includes a filename of one or more files attached to the e mail message . Header further includes task configuration bar which includes a set of pushbuttons labeled with icons indicative of an associated task that is performed when the pushbutton is active and selected. For example task configuration bar may include pushbuttons associated with print save edit including cut copy and paste selected text strings and formatting tasks.

In the illustrated embodiment from field includes a string of sub strings separated by three instances of a period. The first sub string ATL 07 MS3A identifies the location of the source MFP that generated the e mail message. The second sub string printers indicates that the MFP is capable of printing files and is coupled to the customer network . The third sub string domain indicates the name of the customer s network domain. The fourth sub string com reveals the extension of the address of the MFP. The to field includes a string of sub strings identifying an e mail address. The first sub string 8665551212 includes the destination phone number associated with the intended recipient of the fax message. The second sub string servername reveals the domain name of the translator that will process the message. The third sub string com reveals the extension of the address associated with the translator . The attachment field includes a string that represents the filename of the file attached to the e mail message. The illustrated filename indicates that the file was generated on Aug. 17 2007. The file was generated as the result of the third scanned document processed on that day and includes 12 pages.

 Subject field includes three strings separated by semicolons. The first of the strings NOBODY is a command that directs the translator to ignore any information in the body of e mail message . The second string CP NONE is a command that directs the translator to omit a coversheet from the outgoing fax message. The third string REPORT NONE DETAIL EXCEPTION is used to direct the translator how to report fax delivery. Additional and alternative encoded instructions can be easily enabled to instruct the translator to use information in the body to generate and format a cover sheet to be inserted into the outgoing fax message.

Generally in terms of hardware architecture the above described MTA translator and SMTP server each include respective processors and memories as well as local and external interfaces. Each respective combination is arranged such that the processor is in communication with the memory via the local interface. The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control power and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The respective processors are hardware devices for executing software particularly that stored in the associated memory devices. The processors can be any custom made or commercially available processor configured to execute software instructions.

The respective memories can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. read only memory ROM hard drive tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM etc. . Moreover the respective memories may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Each memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but still accessible via the associated processor.

One or more programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be stored in the respective memories. In addition each of the memories may include an operating system that essentially controls the execution of the illustrated functions and perhaps additional functions such as scheduling input output control file and data management memory management communication control and related services.

When implemented as source programs the programs are translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like to operate properly in connection with the operating system.

The external interfaces perform signal conditioning and data format conversions to enable communication through one or both of wired and wireless networks. Wired interfaces are compatible with Ethernet standards and TCP IP. Wireless interfaces are compatible with one or more of the infrared data association IrDA and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers I.E.E.E. family of wireless data communication protocols. It should be understood that other data network interfaces compatible with other communication standards and protocols may also be used.

Additional interfaces and mechanisms can be coupled to each of the MTA translator and SMTP server to configure these devices. These mechanisms may include browsers or other software not shown configured to expose configuration parameters data tables and other information to external devices. Moreover the local interface can be configured with one or more man machine interfaces such as a keyboard a display a printer etc. Such human machine interfaces may include touch sensitive displays or the combination of a graphical user interface and a controllable pointing device such as a mouse to enable an operator to configure or otherwise modify MTA translator or SMTP server gateway and gateway .

When instructions and data elements are implemented in software it should be noted that these software elements can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a RAM electronic a ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

In an alternative embodiment where one or more of instructions operable within MTA translator and SMTP server are implemented in hardware the instructions can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are each well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

Method begins with block where a destination identifier is associated with a specific MFP coupled to a data network. Thereafter as shown in input output block a fax message intended for the MFP as defined by the destination identifier is received. Upon receipt of the fax an e mail message is generated with an image format file attachment as shown in block . As further indicated in block the attachment includes an electronic representation of the fax message. Next as shown in input output block the e mail message is communicated to a transfer agent configured to forward or relay the e mail message to the MFP.

Method begins with input output block where an e mail message including an attachment in an image file format is received from a MFP operating in facsimile mode the MFP providing PSTN information in the e mail message. Thereafter as shown in block a destination address compatible with a data network is generated in accordance with information provided in the e mail message. Next as shown in input output block the e mail message is communicated along with the destination address and at least one instruction for processing the attachment.

Translator includes PSTN interface packet switched interface and engine . PSTN interface makes the necessary data and signal translations to send and receive data including fax signal transmissions via the PSTN . Similarly packet switched interface makes the necessary data and signal translations to send and receive data packets via the data network . Engine includes a processor and memory not shown to enable processing of incoming and outgoing fax documents. Engine receives or is otherwise in communication with a user register which stores personal information about the user s of equipment within customer premises . The user register may include account information including names usernames and one or more identifiers that uniquely identify the MFP . Engine further includes logic located within the 3party copy generator that when executed by the processor enables the optional transfer of an additional copy of messages to and from the customer premises to a predetermined or second destination. The second destination can be an email address or a facsimile address. When the second destination is an email address the message may be sent via communication link to data store which holds indexes and exposes the stored copies. When the second destination is a phone number the message may be sent via communication link to a facsimile device .

The customer premises include a data modem and the MFP . The customer premises may at times include an operational computer . Data modem provides the necessary data and signal translations to send and receive data packets between the customer premises and devices coupled to the data network . The data modem is coupled to the MFP via link and to the computer via link . Each of the illustrated communication links with data network such as link or link or internal links within customer premises such as link or may be partially or entirely enabled wirelessly.

The MFP includes an autonomous application programming interface API . The API includes one or more Internet services that permit a user of a coupled computing device with a browser application to communicate with the MFP . The Internet services may include status information such as a device name a system name firmware identifiers an IP address and a media access control address among other information. The Internet services may further include status information concerning packets transmitted received transmission errors device on off status and diagnostics etc. In addition the API includes a pull function a push function and a print control interface . The pull function periodically communicates with the translator via data modem link data network and link to retrieve previously stored facsimile format messages. A delay period between communication sessions with the translator may be user configured via a registration and configuration process shown by link . The pull function receives the necessary information to reproduce the facsimile message. The pull function forwards the received information to the print control interface which uses the print engine in the MFP to produce a hard copy representation of the facsimile message s . The push function communicates with the translator when an operator of the MFP has supplied a document to be communicated via the translator in a facsimile format to a device coupled to the PSTN and associated with a destination identifier i.e. a phone number .

Link couples the computer to the user register enabling a user to register or subscribe to a communication service. Computer is shown within customer premises in the example embodiment. It should be understood that a user or others associated with a user of the communication service could use a computing device or other interface located in other locations remote from customer premises to communicate with engine via data network or PSTN to register the user and configure a suitable user profile. It should be further understood that once registered and configured the computer is no longer needed to communicate facsimile messages.

The particular content of the message information in the additional copy depends on whether the original message was an inbound message or an outbound message. Inbound messages are those that are sent via facsimile from PSTN to customer premises via the translator . Outbound messages are those that originate as an image scanned or otherwise generated at the MFP and that are sent via email from the customer premises to an intended recipient via the translator and one or more of the PSTN and the data network .

When the message is an inbound message the document i.e. the copy provided by the 3party copy generator includes the name of the user a facsimile number associated with the user the ANI of the received facsimile message as well as the date and time that the facsimile was received. Both the user and the facsimile number associated with the user are retrieved from the user s profile. It should be understood that additional data elements which may be found in a facsimile header or a document processing header are also available for inclusion in the message sent to a 3party associated with the second identifier.

When the user s profile indicates a desire for inbound messages to be sent via email an email message containing a copy of the information in the inbound facsimile message will include a message body and an attachment. The attachment will include a copy of the inbound facsimile in a format also specified in the user s profile. The body of the email message sent to the 3party will be customizable. A default version of the email message will include the email address of the recipient of the copy an indication that the copy was sent from the service provider as well as an indication of the recipient of the original facsimile message. The email message may also include a notice that the attached document was received by at 

When the user s profile indicates a desire for inbound messages to be sent via facsimile a facsimile message containing a copy of the information in the inbound facsimile will be preceded by a customizable cover page. A default version of the facsimile cover page will include the facsimile number of the recipient of the copy an indication that the copy was sent from the service provider. The facsimile message may also include a notice that the attached document was received by at 

When the message is an outbound message the document i.e. the copy provided by the 3party copy generator includes the name of the user the from address on the message the destination address es from the message the text contained in the message body the subject line as well as the date and time that the message was received. Both the user and an address associated with the originating user are retrieved from the user s profile.

When the user s profile indicates a desire for outbound messages to be sent via email an email message containing a copy of the information in the outbound message will include a message body and at least one attachment. The attachment s will be copies of the attachment s contained in the original message. The body of the email message sent to the 3party will be customizable. A default version of the email message will include the email address of the recipient of the copy an indication that the copy was sent from the service provider as well as an indication of the source of the original message. The email message may also include a notice that the attached document was sent by at 

When the user s profile indicates a desire for outbound messages to be sent via facsimile a facsimile message containing a copy of the information in the outbound facsimile will be preceded by a customizable cover page. A default version of the facsimile cover page will include the facsimile number of the recipient of the copy an indication that the copy was sent from the service provider the delivery date number of pages and a note that the message is from the user. The facsimile message may also include a notice that the attached document was sent by at 

As indicated above the 3party copy will be enabled via individual user preferences stored in a user s profile. The profile can be enabled at an enterprise or group level as well as an individual user level. Individual profile elements will specify both the drop location and address type for the 3party copy. The presence of a complete and properly formatted delivery address or second identifier and address type will enable the 3party copy generator to provide the above described features. It is anticipated that access to these profile elements may be restricted to administrators of the service or customer employees agents with suitable privileges.

The 3party copy generator is configured to mark or otherwise designate copied messages for a copied message billing rate that may differ from the rate or rates applied to other messages processed by the translator .

The method begins with block where a service associates a destination identifier with a multiple function peripheral device coupled to a data network. The destination identifier can include a media access control address an IP address a hostname etc. The service will have stored information concerning the location or owner of the MFP. Thereafter as shown in input output block the service receives a facsimile format message intended for the MFP device as defined by one or more destination identifiers. Next the service stores the received facsimile format message as indicated in block . The service may convert the received facsimile format message into a stream of printer commands or a browser page that is buffered or otherwise stored in a data store under the control of the service. In decision block the service determines if a request has been received from the MFP device. When a request has not been received as indicated by the flow control arrow labeled NO processing returns to decision block after a service configurable wait or delay time t in block . When a request has been received from the MFP as indicated by the flow control arrow labeled YES the service communicates the previously stored and perhaps converted facsimile format message via commands in hypertext transfer protocol via a secure sockets layer to the MFP device.

In an alternative and optional mode of operation a second destination identifier associated with an information recording feature is identified as indicated in optional block . As described above the second destination can be identified via one or more of an email address a facsimile address i.e. a phone number or a list address. A list address includes a name along with one of the email address the facsimile address or both addresses. When a list address is used to identify the second destination a user name and a code identifying a select priority for delivering a copy of the image information from the MFP device as stored in a profile are used to control delivery of the copy.

Once the second identifier has been identified in block the facsimile format message intended for the MFP device is forwarded to the second destination in accordance with the profile information associated with the MFP device that generated the message as shown in I O block . The copy of the message intended for the user associated with the MFP device may be stored indexed and made available in accordance with one or more compliance standards for recording communications.

The method begins with block where a service registers a user of a MFP device that is directly accessible via a data network. As part of a registration process the service collects and stores information concerning the network location type model or other information concerning the MFP device and or its user s . In block the service associates the user with a first identifier that uniquely identifies the MFP device on a data network. The first identifier can include a media access control address an IP address a hostname etc. Thereafter as shown in input output block the service accepts image information via commands in hypertext transfer protocol via a secure sockets layer from the MFP device. Next as shown in block the service converts the image information into a facsimile format message. After conversion into a facsimile format message the service communicates the message as shown in input output block . The service communicates the facsimile to a destination identifier communicated in the image information or in a separate command communicated from the MFP device during the same communication session with the service.

In an alternative and optional mode of operation a second destination identifier associated with an information recording feature is identified as indicated in optional block . As described above the second destination can be identified via one or more of an email address a facsimile address i.e. a phone number or a list address. A list address includes a name along with one of the email address the facsimile address or both addresses. When a list address is used to identify the second destination a user name and a code identifying a select priority for delivering a copy of the image information from the MFP device as stored in a profile are used to control delivery of the copy.

Once the second identifier has been identified in block the facsimile format message is forwarded to the second destination in accordance with the profile information associated with the MFP device that generated the message as shown in I O block . The copy of the message originating with the MFP device and intended for delivery to one or more recipients may be stored indexed and made available in accordance with one or more compliance standards for recording communications.

As described above the flow diagrams of and show the architecture functionality and operation of an implementation of example methods for communicating documents. The described functions can be embodied in source code including human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the scope of the claims to the precise forms disclosed. Modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed however were chosen and described to enable one of ordinary skill to utilize various embodiments of the present systems and methods. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

