---

title: Method and system of plotting values indicative of characteristics of an underground formation
abstract: Plotting values indicative of characteristics of an underground formation. At least some of the illustrative embodiments include: obtaining a plurality of values indicative of characteristics of an underground formation; and plotting the plurality of values on an output device of a computer system. The plotting may further include: plotting parallel to a first axis a first plurality of symbols where each symbol is indicative of a value of a characteristic of a first portion of the underground formation, location of the first plurality of symbols with respect to the first axis is indicative of a first parameter, and location of the first plurality of symbols with respect to a second axis is indicative of a second parameter distinct from the first parameter; and wherein location of at least one symbol with respect to the first axis is also indicative of a third parameter, different than the first and second parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554485&OS=08554485&RS=08554485
owner: Landmark Graphics Corporation
number: 08554485
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100901
---
In the continuing advancements in identification and recovery of natural resources such as oil and natural gas trapped in underground formations many companies use computer models of the underground formation. Particular models look forward in time i.e. the model predicts formation response to future actions such as hydrocarbon removal and or secondary recovery techniques and yet other models look backward in time i.e. the models estimate past characteristics of the underground formation in geologic time for example hundreds of thousands or millions of years in the past .

In order extract useful information from the models in many cases the values of multiple characteristics need to be simultaneously analyzed visually. However two dimensional display devices of most computer systems do not lend themselves well to simultaneous display of more than two or three parameters at any one time. Even projecting a three dimensional graph onto the two dimensional display device has limitations.

Thus any advance in the synthesis and visualization of data would provide a competitive advantage in the market place.

Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate software companies may refer to a component by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. In the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to . . . . Also the term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect or direct connection. Thus if a first device couples to a second device that connection may be through a direct connection or through an indirect connection via other devices and connections.

 Characteristic in relation to an underground formation shall include not only present day characteristics but also past characteristics modeled or measured and expected future characteristics.

The following discussion is directed to various embodiments of the invention. Although one or more of these embodiments may be preferred the embodiments disclosed should not be interpreted or otherwise used as limiting the scope of the disclosure including the claims. In addition one skilled in the art will understand that the following description has broad application and the discussion of any embodiment is meant only to be exemplary of that embodiment and not intended to intimate that the scope of the disclosure including the claims is limited to that embodiment.

The various embodiments are directed to methods and systems to display or visualize multiple characteristics of an underground formation. The characteristics include not only present day characteristics e.g. present day depth present day horizontal location seismic derived values but also include derived simulated or modeled characteristics. The modeled characteristics further include not only future expected characteristics of the underground formation but also characteristics of the underground formation in the past on a geologic time scale i.e. hundreds of thousands or millions of years . For ease of description the bulk of the description is discussed in terms of modeled characteristics on a geologic time scale however the description being directed to modeled characteristics on a geologic time scale shall not be read as a limitation as to the applicability of the various embodiments.

Using at least some present day data e.g. seismic data data regarding proximate fault lines etc. a computer model of a present day underground formation may be constructed where the model estimates various characteristics of the formation on a geologic time scale the model sometimes referred to as a basin simulation model or just basin model . For example shows a plot of an illustrative parameter being depth of the formation as a function of geologic time that could be extracted from a basin model. In particular shows that for an illustrative portion of a formation the portion of the formation initially started at the surface point and over time became increasingly deeper with the portion of the formation eventually reaching a maximum depth point . Thereafter the portion of the formation was subjected to lifting forces such that depth began to decrease point eventually becoming the present day depth point . It should be understood however that the plot of is only for a relatively small portion of an underground formation. Another portion though geologically connected present day may likewise start at the surface but experience different depths as a function of geologic time.

In order for a geologist to make an evaluation of a formation for hydrocarbon presence quality quantity and or extraction location the geologist may need to visually evaluate characteristics over geologic time of various portions the formation. For example a geologist may want to compare the depth of the various portions of the formation over geologic time or may want to compare the temperature of the various portions of the formation over geologic time. In order to highlight the difficulty in visualization of the related art consider which shows a plot of present day depth of an underground formation as a function of horizontal position. In particular the abscissa of is horizontal location labeled as X Y and the ordinate is present day depth. The horizontal location is labeled as X Y to convey that the visualization is from a particular point relative to the surface of the earth but does not convey a particular viewing direction. illustrates that the formation of interest has differing depths as a function of location. For example portion is more shallow than portion . Moreover illustrative may also convey additional information such as the type of formation material by way of the cross hatch or fill color between line delineating the top surface or horizon of the formation and line delineating the bottom surface or horizon of the formation.

In the related art a comparison of a particular characteristic over geologic time across different portions of the formation is difficult. For example creating a query line or box may trigger the computer system to display an additional two dimensional plot such as or that shows the geologic characteristic of interest for the particular location indicated by box . Likewise creating a query line or box may trigger an additional two dimensional plot such as or that shows the geologic characteristic of interest for the particular location indicated by box however synthesizing the data as between the two locations is difficult as the information is presented on two different charts. Moreover the geologist may need to see the change in the geologic characteristic along the portions of the formation between the portion and portion yet separate windows with graphs of the geologic characteristic for all the portions between portion and portion cannot be easily simultaneously displayed.

In accordance with particular embodiments a graph of present day depth of an underground formation e.g. is modified to overload at least one axis to simultaneously convey two parameters and thus the graph itself conveys three parameters. Moreover values of characteristics are plotted within the graph using symbols such as color so that a single two dimensional plot simultaneously conveys four parameters of interest. illustrates a plot in accordance with at least some embodiments where one axis is overloaded to show two parameters. In particular shows a plot of present day depth of an underground formation as a function of horizontal position in accordance with at least some embodiments. The abscissa of is horizontal location again labeled as X Y and the ordinate in a first sense is present day depth. In the illustrative formation has differing depth as a function of location. For example portions of the formation are shallower than portions .

In the illustrative graph of a plurality of symbols is plotted parallel to the ordinate where each symbol in the plurality of symbols is indicative of a value of first characteristic of a first portion of the formation. In particular for portion of the formation four illustrative symbols labeled A through D are plotted. In the illustration of each symbol is a quadrilateral with particular cross hatching but other symbols such as sections of color may be equivalently used. Moreover the size of each symbol is exaggerated in for clarity. In some embodiments each symbol may be relatively small e.g. a single line width on a paper plot single pixel of a display device or a small group of pixels on a display device . In some cases there may be enough symbols to give the appearance of smoothly varying the color and in yet other cases the program that plots the symbols may fill the space between symbols such that the color appears to smoothly vary between the symbols.

The location of the plurality of symbols in accordance with the various embodiments conveys information to the viewer. In particular in accordance with at least some embodiments the position each symbol with respect to the ordinate is indicative of a first parameter. For example consider that the symbols are indicative of temperature of the portion of the formation on a geologic time scale. Thus symbol A is in this example is indicative of temperature of the portion of the formation at the creation of the formation symbol D is indicative of temperature of the portion of the formation present day and symbols B and C are indicative of temperatures between creation and present day. Thus with respect to the vertical extent of symbols considered as a group in this example the ordinate represents geologic time.

In addition to the symbols with respect to the ordinate representing a first parameter one or more of the symbols with respect to the ordinate also represent a second parameter. For example taken as a group the symbols with respect to the ordinate convey both a present day depth of the portion of the formation as well as a thickness of the portion of the formation . Thus in this example the top of symbol A with respect to the ordinate represents present day depth of the top of portion of formation and the bottom of symbol D with respect to the ordinate represents present day depth of the bottom of portion of formation and thus the symbols as a group in this example define the thickness of portion of formation .

Thus the ordinate in is overloaded . With the example parameters above the ordinate not only is indicative of present day depth and indirectly thickness but also within the vertical extent of the formation is indicative of geologic time. It should be understood however that the overloading may take place without the ability to fully identify any particular parameter. For example within the vertical extent of the formation the ordinate may be indicative of geologic time but it is not necessary that geologic time is precisely identified only that geologic time decreases downward in this example. Furthermore the thickness of the overloaded parameter does not have to be confined within the formation. For example to aid in interpretation the overloaded parameter can be stretched deeper than the bottom of the formation for which it represents.

The symbols for portion again convey information for a relatively small portion of the formation . Additional sets of symbols for additional portions of a formation may be plotted. For example for portion of the formation a plurality of symbols labeled A through D are plotted. The symbols illustratively abut symbols and also illustratively abut each other. Moreover in order to simplify the discussion for portions and the symbols and respectively are equally sized however the symbols need not be of equal size. In fact given that within formation the symbols are plotted with respect to an overloaded ordinate the size of the symbols may change depending on the value of the characteristic plotted. Consider as an example portion . In portion one symbol dominates the portion. In the illustrative case of the symbols representing temperature of the portion of the formation over geologic time for portion the temperature represented by symbol was present in the formation significantly longer than the temperature represented by portion .

In the example above the symbols represent temperature of the formation over geologic time. By scanning across the formation the eye can quickly and easily identify portions of the formation that have experienced particular temperatures for particular times. Consider as a more specific example that the cross hatch being lines from lower left to upper right e.g. used in symbol C represent a golden zone of temperatures where hydrocarbon formation is most likely e.g. the golden zone of 80 Degrees Celsius C to 120 C . The longer a portion of the formation remains within the golden zone the more likely it is that the portion of the formation contains hydrocarbons in commercial quantity and or quality. Thus the eye can quickly determine that for the example characteristic of temperature over geologic time portions of the formation spent significant time at the golden zone of temperatures and thus are prime candidates for placement of a wellbore. Moreover the illustrative graph of directly indicates the depth and horizontal location of the desirable locations.

Illustrative was discussed in terms of the symbols being representative of a value of the characteristic being temperature over geologic time. However any of a variety of characteristics could be plotted. For example the symbols plotted could be derived from a basin model where the basin model provides values indicative of temperature of the portion over to geologic time net depth of the portion over geologic time porosity of the portion over geologic time permeability of the portion over geologic time density of the portion with respect to geologic time and lithology i.e. elemental and or mineralogical make up of the portion with respect to geologic time. Further the symbols plotted could be derived from a model that predicts future states of the formation such as values indicative of formation pressure with respect to time net reserves with respect to time or water saturation with respect to time. Moreover the graphing technique need not be limited to values derived from models. For example in other embodiments the graphing technique may be used to display measured characteristics such as amplitude of reflected seismic signals from 4D seismic surveys with respect to a seismic event e.g. explosive charge detonation phase of reflected prestack i.e. signals before significant processing seismic signals with respect to angle for a seismic event or frequency of reflected prestack seismic signals with respect to offset e.g. distance for a seismic event.

The various embodiments have been discussed to this point in terms of the output produced on an output device of a computer system. The specification now turns to the illustrative hardware and software environments used to produce the output. In particular at a high level production of the illustrative can be considered to be a two step process. A first computer system gathers and creates data upon which the illustrative plot is based and saves the data to some form of portable storage device e.g. magnetic disk drive optical disk drive flash device . Thereafter a second computer system is provided the portable storage device and in particular the data files on the portable storage device and creates the second hardware and software environment which creates the illustrative plot from the data. The gathering and creation is addressed first.

In accordance with at least some embodiments a first hardware and software environment is invoked to gather data and save the data to a memory device such as a portable storage device. In particular a first hardware and software environment is invoked to gather information such as the locations of the formation top and bottom i.e. the surfaces or horizons and also to gather data that will be represented in the overloaded portion in this example data with respect to geologic time from a basin model. The first hardware and software environment stores the conglomerated data to the portable storage device in any suitable standard such as the Society of Exploration Geophysicists SEG SEG Y format though other formats and after developed formats may be equivalently used. Saving the conglomerated data in a suitable standard format may be referred to as saving the data to a 2D or 3D grid format or simply saving the data to a standard stacked seismic data format. In the illustrative case of SEG Y the seismic data format involves overloading the data with at least two parameters. A first parameter that contains the formation amplitude information correlated to location and or depth and a second parameter that contains the overloaded data e.g. data in geologic time from the basin model also correlated to location and or depth.

In many cases the portable storage device is created and then given to a client e.g. working interest owner mineral rights owner for viewing and analysis. Thus a second hardware and software environment is invoked to view and analyze the data. In accordance with the various embodiments any of a variety of viewing and analysis programs may be used. For example the SEISWORKS brand products available from Landmark Graphics Corporation of Houston Tex. may be used to read the data from the portable storage device and produce the plot on a display device. Other products also available form Landmark Graphics Corporation that may read the data and display plots comprise the GEOPROBE brand products POWERVIEW brand products DECISIONSPACE brand products.

While the hardware and software environment to this point has assumed a first computer systems to create the data in the seismic data format and a second distinct computer system to read the data in the seismic data format and produce the plots in some cases the same computer system both creates the data in the seismic data format and produces the plot.

The specification now turns to an illustrative computer system on which the various aspects may be implemented. In particular illustrates a computer system in accordance with at least some embodiments. In particular computer system comprises a main processor coupled to a main memory array and various other peripheral computer system components through integrated host bridge . Computer system may implement multiple main processors . The main processor couples to the host bridge by way of a host bus or the host bridge may be integrated into the main processor . Thus the computer system may implement other bus configurations or bus bridges in addition to or in place of those shown in .

The main memory couples to the host bridge through a memory bus . Thus the host bridge comprises a memory control unit that controls transactions to the main memory by asserting control signals for memory accesses. In other embodiments the main processor directly implements a memory control unit and the main memory may couple directly to the main processor . The main memory functions as the working memory for the main processor and comprises a memory device or array of memory devices in which programs instructions and data are stored. The main memory may comprise any suitable type of memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM or any of the various types of DRAM devices such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM extended data output DRAM EDODRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM . The main memory is an example of a non transitory computer readable medium storing programs and instructions and other examples are disk drives and flash memory devices.

The illustrative computer system also comprises a second bridge that bridges the primary expansion bus to various secondary expansion buses such as a low pin count LPC bus and peripheral components interconnect PCI bus . Various other secondary expansion buses may be supported by the bridge device . However computer system is not limited to any particular chip set manufacturer and thus bridge devices and expansion bus protocols from any of a variety of manufacturers may be equivalently used.

Firmware hub couples to the bridge device by way of the LPC bus . The firmware hub comprises read only memory ROM which contains software programs executable by the main processor . The software programs comprise programs executed during and just after power on self tests POST procedures as well as memory reference code. The POST procedures and memory reference code perform various functions within the computer system before control of the computer system is turned over to the operating system.

The computer system further comprises a network interface card NIC illustratively coupled to the PCI bus . The NIC acts as to couple the computer system to a communication network such the Internet.

Still referring to computer system may further comprise a super input output I O controller coupled to the bridge by way of the LPC bus . The Super I O controller controls many computer system functions for example interfacing with various input and output devices such as a disk drive keyboard a pointing device e.g. mouse game controller and various serial ports. The super I O controller is often referred to as super because of the many I O functions it performs.

The computer system further comprises a graphics processing unit GPU coupled to the host bridge by way of bus such as a PCI Express PCI E bus or Advanced Graphics Processing AGP bus. Other bus systems including after developed bus systems may be equivalently used. Moreover the graphics processing unit may alternatively couple to the primary expansion bus or one of the secondary expansion buses e.g. PCI bus .

The graphics processing unit couples to a display device which may comprise any suitable electronic display device upon which any image or text can be displayed. The graphics processing unit comprises one or more onboard processors as well as onboard memory . The processor performs graphics processing as commanded by the main processor . Moreover the memory may be significant on the order of several hundred megabytes or more. Thus once commanded by the main processor the graphics processing unit may perform significant calculations regarding graphics to be displayed on the display device and ultimately display such graphics without further input or assistance of the main processor .

Thus the computer system of is illustrative of the hardware environment that may collect data and store the data in the seismic stacked data format. The system of is also illustrative of the hardware environment that may read data in the seismic stacked data format and produce the plot on a display device.

Basic graphics library overlays menu and interface software . Basic graphics library is an application programming interface API for computer graphics. The functions performed by basic graphics library may comprise for example geometric and raster primitives viewing and modeling transformations lighting and shading hidden surface removal alpha blending translucency anti aliasing and texture mapping. A particularly useful basic graphics library is OpenGL marketed by Khronos Group of Beaverton Oreg. and particular OpenGL 2.0 and above. The OpenGL API is a multi platform industry standard that is hardware window and operating system independent. OpenGL is designed to be callable from multiple programming languages such as C C FORTRAN Ada and Java.

Visual simulation graphics library overlays the basic graphics library . Visual simulation graphics library is an API for creating real time multi processed 3 D visual simulation graphics applications. Visual simulation graphics library provides functions that bundle together graphics library state control functions such as lighting materials texture and transparency. These functions track state and the creation of display lists that can be rendered later. A particularly useful visual simulation graphics library is Open Scene Graph which is also available from Khronos Group. OpenSceneGraph supports the OpenGL graphics library discussed above. Open Scene Graph operates in the same manner as OpenGL Performer providing programming tools written in C C for a large variety of computer platforms.

A data gathering program of the various embodiments overlays the various libraries. The data gathering program may gather data such as formation horizon information as well as the data to be overloaded e.g. data from a basin model with respect to geologic time or data from prestack seismic with respect to offset or angle . Program then saves the data on a memory device in a gridded or seismic data format. Program interfaces with and may utilize the functions carried out by the visual simulation graphics library basic graphics library menu and interface software and operating system . In some embodiments program is written in an object oriented programming language e.g. C to enable the creation and use of objects and object functionality. Likewise a plotting program such as a SEISWORKS brand program overlays visual simulation graphics library . The plotting program may read data stored in a seismic standard data format and produce an overloaded plot such as in . Plotting program interfaces with and may utilize the functions carried out by the visual simulation graphics library basic graphics library menu and interface software and operating system . In some embodiments program is written in an object oriented programming language e.g. C to enable the creation and use of objects and object functionality.

Some or all of the software environment may be stored on a long term non volatile storage device within computer system such as disk drive and loaded to the main memory during booting and or initial operation of the computer system . In other embodiments some or all of the software environment may be loaded into the main memory by way of the NIC .

From the description provided herein those skilled in the art are readily able to combine software created as described with appropriate general purpose or special purpose computer hardware e.g. graphics processing unit to create a computer system and or computer subcomponents in accordance with the various embodiments to create a computer system and or computer subcomponents for carrying out the methods of the various embodiments and or to create a non transitory computer readable storage media for storing a software program to implement the method aspects of the various embodiments.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. For example while the plotting value has been discussed with respect to a display device of a computer system any output device e.g. a display device a plotter and printer may be equivalently used as the output device on which the plotting takes place. Moreover overloading the vertical axis is merely illustrative and any axis could be equivalently overloaded. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

