---

title: Systems and methods for sharing threaded conversations on mobile communications devices
abstract: Embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for sharing threaded conversations on mobile communications devices. In one embodiment, a method may include: receiving, at a service provider system, a message containing a thread file associated with a forwarded message thread from a forwarding party mobile communications device, wherein the thread file comprises message text and sender information obtained from each of multiple text messages in the forwarded message thread, and wherein the message identifies at least one new recipient; identifying the message as containing a thread file; generating and associating a unique thread identifier with the thread file; and transmitting the thread file with the unique thread identifier over a wireless network for delivery to the at least one new recipient for display of the forwarded message thread.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849322&OS=08849322&RS=08849322
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08849322
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101011
---
Aspects of the invention relate generally to wireless messaging and more particularly to systems and methods for sharing threaded conversations on mobile communications devices.

Many mobile communications devices e.g. cellular phones smart phones etc. are capable of sending and receiving Short Message Service SMS messages or other text based messages. Mobile communications devices MCD have also begun grouping multiple messages together for display on a single screen which represent a conversation between two people. A grouping is typically referred to as a message thread or a conversation thread. For example all messages between the user s device and another device that occur over a predefined period of time may be grouped as a single thread for display together to the user.

Conventional devices however are limited to displaying conversations between only two people and not more. In addition there currently exists no means for forwarding an entire message thread to a new person or device. Some devices allow forwarding a single text based message to another person but not multiple grouped messages. Therefore a need exists for systems and methods that allow sharing threaded conversations on mobile communications devices.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for sharing threaded conversations on mobile communications devices. In one embodiment a method for forwarding a message thread from a mobile communications device is provided. The method may include displaying multiple text messages between at least two thread participants on a forwarding party mobile communications device display as a message thread receiving an instruction to forward the message thread to at least one new recipient mobile communications device obtaining message text and sender information for each of the multiple text messages in the message thread generating a thread file including the obtained message text and sender information for each of the multiple text messages in the message thread and transmitting the thread file for delivery from the forwarding party mobile communications device to the at least one new recipient mobile communications device for display of the message thread.

According to another embodiment a method for receiving a forwarded message thread at a mobile communications device is provided. The method may include receiving at a new recipient mobile communications device a message associated with a thread file wherein the thread file comprises message text and sender information obtained from each of the multiple text messages in a forwarded message thread forwarded from a forwarding mobile communications device obtaining the thread file and obtaining the message text and sender information for each of the multiple text messages from the thread file generating the forwarded message thread containing the obtained message text and sender information for each of the multiple text messages and displaying the forwarded message thread on a display of the new recipient mobile communications device wherein the forwarded message thread comprises a text message for each of the multiple text messages in the forwarded message thread.

According to another embodiment a method for forwarding a message thread between mobile communications devices is provided. The method may include receiving at a service provider system a message containing a thread file associated with a forwarded message thread from a forwarding party mobile communications device wherein the thread file comprises message text and sender information obtained from each of the multiple text messages in the forwarded message thread and wherein the message identifies at least one new recipient identifying the message as containing a thread file generating and associating a unique thread identifier with the thread file and transmitting the thread file with the unique thread identifier over a wireless network for delivery to the at least one new recipient for display of the forwarded message thread.

According to yet another embodiment a system for forwarding a message thread between mobile communications devices is provided. The system can include a wireless operator system having at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor operable to execute the computer executable instructions. The processor may be operable to execute the computer executable instructions to receive a message containing a thread file associated with a forwarded message thread from a forwarding party mobile communications device wherein the thread file comprises message text and sender information obtained from each of multiple text messages in the forwarded message thread and wherein the message identifies at least one new recipient identify the message as containing a thread file generate and associate a unique thread identifier with the thread file and transmit the thread file with the unique thread identifier over a wireless network for delivery to the at least one new recipient for display of the forwarded message thread.

According to yet another embodiment a mobile communications device for forwarding a message thread is provided. The device may include computer executable instructions and at least one processor operable for executing the computer executable instructions to display multiple text messages between at least two thread participants on the mobile communications device display as a message thread receive an instruction to forward the message thread to at least one new recipient mobile communications device obtain message text and sender information for each of the text messages in the message thread generate a thread file including the obtained message text and sender information for each of the text messages in the message thread and transmit the thread file for delivery to the at least one new recipient mobile communications device for display of the message thread.

According to yet another embodiment a mobile communications device for receiving and displaying a forwarded message thread is provided. The device may include computer executable instructions and at least one processor operable for executing the computer executable instructions to receive a message associated with a thread file wherein the thread file comprises message text and sender information obtained from each of multiple text messages in a forwarded message thread forwarded from a forwarding mobile communications device obtain the thread file and obtain the message text and sender information for each of the text messages from the thread file generate the forwarded message thread containing the obtained message text and sender information for each of the text messages and display the forwarded message thread on a display of the mobile communications device wherein the forwarded message thread comprises a text message for each of the text messages in the forwarded message thread.

Additional systems methods apparatus features and aspects may be realized through the techniques of various embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein with reference to the description and to the drawings and are considered a part of the claimed invention.

Embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for sharing threaded messages with other mobile communications devices. As discussed many mobile communications devices e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a pager a tablet computer a media player etc. generate a single view referred to herein as threaded view or conversation view that displays multiple text based messages e.g. SMS messages between two recipients such that users can see a thread of the past messages shared between the two recipients. However conventional threaded or conversation views are limited to displaying messages between two users and do not have the ability to forward the multiple messages of the thread to one or more new recipients optionally inviting them to participate in the threaded conversation. According to the embodiments described herein these systems and methods provide the ability to forward a message thread to a new mobile communications device recipient not yet participating in the conversation. Moreover upon the new recipient s device receiving the forwarded message thread the new recipient can view the entire conversation between the two original thread participants as well as optionally reply to one some or all of the thread participants thus joining the conversation thread.

According to one embodiment an SMS client on a user s the forwarding party s MCD allows generating a thread file also generally referred to herein as a flat thread file but not limited to a flat file structure that contains the message text and sender information from the message thread to be forwarded. This flat thread file can then be forwarded to the intended forward recipients. SMS messaging Multimedia Message Service MMS messaging or mobile email applications can be utilized to forward the flat thread file containing the forwarded message thread details via the wireless operator system to the recipient MCD s .

Depending upon the technique utilized to forward the flat thread the recipient mobile device may receive the flat thread file differently. For example if the flat thread file is transmitted by the forwarding party using SMS the wireless operator system may first transmit a forwarded thread message availability notification to the recipient party s MCD receipt of which causes the SMS client on the recipient party s MCD to retrieve the flat thread file stored at the wireless operator system over a network e.g. via an hyper text transmission protocol HTTP session . If the flat thread file is forwarded via MMS messaging then the wireless operator system may first transmit an MMS control message containing a location identifier to the flat thread file stored at the wireless operator system. Otherwise if the flat thread file is transmitted via mobile email e.g. as an attachment or in the body then the SMS client and or email client of the recipient party s MCD may include processing logic to identify the email as containing the flat thread file and extract the flat thread file therefrom.

Upon receiving the flat thread file whether by SMS MMS or mobile email the SMS client on the recipient s MCD then parses the flat thread file to display the message text and the sender information as a threaded conversation on the new recipient s MCD. Also as part of forwarding the message thread the wireless operator system or any of the MCDs can generate a unique thread identifier which will allow identifying and associating subsequent messages with the forwarded message thread and or create a new forwarded message thread from the originally forwarded message thread such as processing replies or subsequent forwards by one or more of the parties.

More details regarding the various means for implementing the embodiments of the invention are provided below with reference to .

An example system will now be described illustratively with respect to . The system may include one or more network operators and associated wireless operator systems at least one forwarding mobile communications device MCD at least one recipient MCD one or more wireless networks and one or more other networks e.g. the Internet wide area network local area network private network public network etc. generally referred to herein as the Internet . Each of the aforementioned systems or system components is configured for accessing and reading associated computer readable media having data stored thereon and or computer executable instructions for implementing the various methods described herein. By executing computer executable instructions each of these computer systems may form a special purpose computer or a particular machine. As used herein the term computer readable medium may describe any form of computer memory or memory device.

The wireless operator system may be one or more wireless operator systems each associated with one or more suitable processor driven devices that facilitate the transmission of text based messages as well as other wireless communications between MCDs such as but not limited to a server computer a mainframe computer one or more networked computers a desktop computer a personal computer an application specific circuit microcontroller minicomputer or any other processor based device. The execution of suitable computer implemented instructions by the wireless operator system may form a special purpose computer or other particular machine that is operable to facilitate forwarding message threads as discussed herein. Although a single wireless operator system is described herein the operations and or control of the wireless operator system may be distributed amongst any number of computers and or processing components. Moreover in some instances the operations described herein may be performed by multiple wireless operator systems such as if different wireless operators are involved in the transmission of the text based messages.

Details of the wireless operator system are described with reference to which illustrates a schematic view of an example computer system according to one embodiment. The wireless operator system thus includes one or more processors one or more memory device s one or more input output I O interface s and one or more network interface s communicating over a data communications bus . The memory device may be any suitable memory device for example caches read only memory devices random access memory devices magnetic storage devices removable storage devices etc. Additionally any number of logical data storage constructs may be stored as desired within the memory device such as any number of suitable databases. The memory device may further store a wide variety of data such as message thread information unique thread identifications flat thread files sender and recipient information and the like. Additionally the memory device may store executable programmed logic instructions and or various program modules utilized by the wireless operator system for example an operating system a Short Message Service Center SMSC Gateway a Multimedia Message Service Center MMSC Gateway a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Gateway an Email Gateway an Intercarrier Gateway a Home Agent and a thread forwarding module such as are described in more detail herein. The operating system may be a suitable software module that controls the general operation of the wireless operator system and may also facilitate the execution of other programmed logic by the one or more processors for example the thread forwarding module. The operating system may be but is not limited to Microsoft Windows Apple OSXTM Linux Unix or a mainframe operating system.

With continued reference to the wireless operator system the one or more I O interfaces may facilitate communication between the wireless operator system and one or more input output devices for example one or more user interface devices such as a display keypad mouse pointing device control panel touch screen display remote control microphone speaker etc. that facilitate user interaction with the wireless operator system . The one or more network interfaces may facilitate connection of the wireless operator system to one or more suitable networks for example the Internet and or the wireless network illustrated in . In this regard the wireless operator system may receive and or communicate information to other components of the system such as the MCDs other wireless operator systems and or other components conventionally associated with wireless communications networks.

As illustrated in the wireless operator system includes a number of programmed logic modules including but not limited to an SMSC Gateway an MMSC Gateway a WAP Gateway an Email Gateway an Intercarrier Gateway and a Home Agent each adapted to facilitate wireless communications as is conventionally known. Briefly the SMSC Gateway may be adapted for receiving and processing SMS messages from subscriber MCDs and from other wireless operators e.g. via an Intercarrier Gateway . As part of the SMSC Gateway operations a received SMS message may be initially stored at the wireless operator system and subsequently sent to the intended recipient s when they are available commonly referred to as store and forward handling . The MMSC Gateway operates in a similar manner but when sending the MMS message to the intended recipient s an MMS control message is first sent to the recipient MCD device s when available e.g. as an SMS message which includes a link e.g. a uniform resource identifier URI or a uniform resource locator URL . Upon receipt of the MMS control message the MCD initiates an HTTP session e.g. via the MCD s WAP module to retrieve the MMS message identified by the link the URI or URL . A WAP Gateway is generally utilized for handling WAP communications from MCDs such as for handling requests to access web based pages and or requests for files and for translating text based messages requests into HTTP based requests. An Email Gateway is generally utilized to handle email messages transmitted to from MCDs. An Intercarrier Gateway is utilized to exchange messages between wireless operator systems such as if a recipient is a subscriber of a different wireless operator than the sending party. A Home Agent is utilized to maintain an IP address or other routing identifier for subscriber s MCDs regardless of their actual location. Each of these modules will be discussed in more detail below with reference to the various embodiments for forwarding text based message threads. It is appreciated that the aforementioned features of an MCD are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting.

The MCDs are operable for communication over one or more wireless networks . An MCD may be any device operable for wireless communications e.g. cellular Wi Fi Internet communications WiMAX network communications and the like such as but not limited to a mobile phone a pager device a smart phone a personal audio player a personal device assistant a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a media player or any other suitable portable device operable for wireless communications. Accordingly each MCD is associated with a wireless operator system also referred to as a subscriber of the wireless operator and communicates at least partially over the wireless network s operated by the wireless operator system . When MCDs that subscribe to one wireless operator system are communicating with MCDs that subscribe to another wireless operator system then typically communications are transmitted between the MCDs over both respective wireless networks such as is facilitated by the Intercarrier Gateways of the wireless operator systems .

Details of the MCDs are described with reference to which illustrates a schematic view of an example MCD according to one embodiment. Each MCD includes a memory a processor a transceiver and a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card or any other means to uniquely store and identify the user subscriber of the MCD each in communication over one or more data communications buses . The memory may be any suitable memory device for example caches read only memory devices random access memory devices magnetic storage devices removable storage devices etc. and may be operable to store programmed logic data and an operating system . According to one example the programmed logic may include an SMS and or MMS or mobile email client and a thread forwarding module such as may be programmed to implement the message thread forwarding features described in more detail herein. The processor or processors may be operable to execute the programmed logic and the operating system and may be any microprocessor microcontroller or any other processing device. The transceiver is operable for receiving and transmitting wireless signals such as may be used for carrying voice and or data e.g. voice calls SMS messages MMS messages mobile email etc. . Example wireless transceivers include but are not limited to radio frequency transceivers IEEE 802.11 type also referred to as Wi Fi Bluetooth infrared and the like. In addition an input output I O controller is operable to facilitate control of input and output to and from the MCD user via the display and the keypad and optionally via other interface devices. The I O controller can thus be implemented in hardware software firmware or any other combination thereof and may include interface drivers buffers or interrupts to handle the input and output of audio video data graphics etc. The display may be any display for displaying graphics video text etc. on the MCD such as but not limited to the screen e.g. LCD touchscreen monitor and or other display. The keypad entry component may be any input device such as but not limited to conventional phone type keypad e.g. 0 9 plus characters QWERTY keypad touchscreen interface graffiti interface and or any other input device. It is appreciated that the aforementioned features of an MCD are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting.

The wireless network may be any wireless network operable for wireless communications operating under any cellular or other wireless network protocol e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA etc. . In addition the wireless network may provide MCDs wireless access to the Internet for example to access the world wide web or to utilize HTTP communications sessions such as when retrieving MMS messages and or mobile emails. Due to network connectivity various methodologies described herein may be practiced in the context of distributed computing environments. Although the system is shown for simplicity as including one intervening wireless network and Internet it is to be understood that any other network configuration is possible which may optionally include a plurality of networks each with devices such as gateways and routers for providing connectivity between or among networks.

The system shown in and described with respect to is provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are possible. Accordingly embodiments of the invention should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment system architecture or device configuration.

According to various embodiments any number of recipients may be identified. A recipient may be selected from a list from contact date or entered directly. In addition in one embodiment the forwarding user may select a subset of messages to forward such as if not all individual messages of the current message thread are desired to be forwarded. A user interface may be provided that allows selecting one some or all of the individual messages in the original message thread e.g. check box highlighting etc. or the messages to be excluded. The flat thread file that is generated will reflect the selected messages such that when executed by the recipient MCD the forwarded message thread will only display those selected by the user. It is appreciated however that in other embodiments all of the individual messages in the message thread are forwarded either by default or by limitation for example .

Upon receipt of the SMS message containing the flat thread file as described in more detail with reference to the wireless operator system such as via thread forwarding module or any other programmed logic identifies the message as having a flat thread file stores the flat thread file at least temporarily and optionally generates a unique thread identifier also referred to herein as a conversation ID and associates the identifier with the flat thread file containing the forwarded message thread. The unique thread identifier may be utilized to subsequently group replies forwards new messages etc. to allow creating or continuing the conversation thread. The wireless operator system then transmits a message thread availability notification to the recipient MCD notifying the MCD that a flat thread file is available for retrieval. As discussed in more detail below this message thread availability notification may be a silent notification which will cause the SMS client or other programmed logic operable to implement thread forwarding module of the recipient MCD to identify that a flat thread file containing a forwarded message thread is available for retrieval. In another embodiment the message thread availability notification may be a visible message e.g. an SMS or MMS message that indicates to the user that a flat thread file containing a forwarded message thread is available for retrieval and requires user input to retrieve the flat thread file e.g. hyperlink accept command etc. . The message thread availability notification may be transmitted as an SMS message a WAP push message an MMS message and the like.

According to one embodiment the SMSC Gateway of the wireless operator system as described with reference to may be operable to receive and transmit SMS messages between the forwarding MCD and the recipient MCD . If the two MCDs are subscribers of different wireless operators then the Intercarrier Gateway also described with reference to may be operable to facilitate exchanging the SMS messages and or flat thread files or any other message types such as MMS messages and mobile email messages described with reference to respectively between the wireless operator systems for communication over the different wireless networks . In one embodiment the SMSC Gateway may be modified or otherwise include the programmed logic such as a thread forwarding module to perform at least in part the thread forwarding operations performed by the wireless operator system . It is appreciated however that these system components and modules are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting.

In response to the message thread availability notification also discussed with reference to the recipient MCD such as via the SMS client or MMS client etc. initiates an HTTP session with the wireless operator system over the Internet via the wireless network to download the flat thread file . The flat thread file which contains the unique thread identifier if generated is then downloaded to the recipient MCD for parsing and display of the message thread as displayed originally to the forwarding MCD . According to certain embodiments either the WAP Gateway and or the MMSC Gateway modules of the wireless operator system may facilitate transmitting the flat thread file via the HTTP session .

In addition if the recipient of the forwarded message thread wishes to reply a reply can be sent to one more than one or all of the original thread participants. An SMS reply message without forwarding the original message thread can be sent according to conventional SMS messaging protocol. For example the SMS client of the MCD may send separate individual SMS reply messages to each recipient or in another example the SMS client may send a single reply message and the service operator system such as the SMSC Gateway may replicate the message for delivery to the intended recipients.

However in one embodiment the user or the system may indicate that the message thread is to be forwarded with the reply. In that instance the recipient MCD generates a new flat thread file or supplements the existing flat thread file received to display the original message thread and transmits it along with a reply message to the new recipient party or parties in a manner similar to that performed by the original forwarding MCD . It is appreciated that the new reply message may be included with the new flat thread file may be a message sent with the new reply message or may be a separate message sent separately. Because a unique thread identifier has now been generated it can be included with the new flat thread file such as in the header to allow the wireless operator system and or the SMS clients of each of the MCDs to utilize the unique thread identifier for grouping subsequently received messages with the same identifier into a conversation thread.

According to another embodiment instead of the recipient MCD generating a new flat thread file the wireless operator system such as via the thread forwarding module can retrieve the previously stored original flat thread file and make it available to the new recipient s when transmitting the new reply message . Thus upon receipt of the reply message and the new flat thread file the new recipient MCDs can use the unique thread identifier to group and display all of the original messages of the original message thread between the two original participants with all subsequent replies between all of the participants.

In another embodiment instead of re capturing the original message thread messages when generating a reply message or when transmitting a reply by the wireless operator system a new thread can be started that does not include any of the original message thread messages but does include any new message that has the unique conversation identifier associated therewith. Thus the SMS client or any other programmed logic can be programmed to identify messages containing the same unique thread identifier and group into a single message thread. In some embodiments additional message identifiers and or time stamps can be utilized to facilitate ordering the individual messages within the message thread according to the order received or sent to accurately represent the conversation.

After storing at least temporarily the flat thread file and optionally generating the unique thread identifier the network operator system generates and transmits an MMS control message to the recipient MCD s which includes a location identifier e.g. URI or URL etc. of the flat thread file . As is typical with MMS protocol upon receipt of the MMS control message the recipient MCD begins an HTTP session e.g. via a WAP module to retrieve the flat thread file based on the location identifier in the MMS control message over the Internet via the wireless network . The flat thread file is retrieved from the wireless operator system . The flat thread file may then be parsed for display by the MMS client such as if programmed with a thread forwarding module or passed to the SMS client if it is programmed with a thread forwarding module. Similar to that described above with reference to the recipient MCD may also be operable to reply to one or more of the thread participants and or forward the message thread with a reply in the same or similar manner using MMS messaging protocol.

In this embodiment the MMSC Gateway of the service provider system as described with reference to is operable to receive MMS messages and to facilitate forwarding the flat thread file to the recipient MCD s . In addition to the MMSC Gateway the Home Agent may be utilized to resolve the identities of the MCDs and the SMSC Gateway may also optionally be programmed to facilitate storing the flat thread file generating the unique thread identifier and coordinating delivery of the flat thread file to the recipient MCD s .

In this embodiment upon identifying the email message as containing the flat thread file the flat thread file can be stored locally by the wireless operator system and pushed to or retrieved based on polling by email clients of the recipient MCD s . In addition a unique thread identifier is generated and associated with the mobile email and flat thread file prior to transmission of the email to the recipient MCD s .

In embodiments in which the flat thread file is forwarded according to mobile email protocol the Email Gateway and or WAP Gateway of the service network operating system as described with reference to are operable to receive mobile email messages and to facilitate forwarding the email messages containing the flat thread file to the recipient MCD s . In addition to the Email Gateway and or WAP Gateway the Home Agent may be utilized to resolve the identities of the MCDs and the SMSC Gateway may also optionally be programmed to facilitate storing the flat thread file generating the unique thread identifier and coordinating delivery of the flat thread file via the Email Gateway and or WAP Gateway to the recipient MCD s .

When the recipient MCD identifies the mobile message as containing a flat thread file it is configured to retrieve the flat thread file parse the contents of the flat thread file and display the threaded message by the SMS client to the user. For example in one embodiment the mobile email client of the recipient MCD includes programmed logic to identify the mobile message as containing the flat thread file e.g. by header information containing a unique thread identifier etc. and then hands the flat thread file to the SMS client for parsing and displaying. In another example the SMS client of the recipient MCD may include programmed logic to monitor mobile email messages attachments and or header information and when identifying one as containing a flat thread file the SMS client retrieves the flat thread file from the mobile email client and performs the parsing and display. In yet another embodiment the mobile email client may include programmed logic to save any flat thread files to a predefined location in memory upon receipt. The SMS client in this example will also include programmed logic to monitor that location in memory and when a new flat thread file is saved thereto the SMS client retrieves the flat thread file and parses and displays the message thread on the MCD . Communication calls between the mobile email client the SMS client the MMS client and or memory locations as discussed herein may be performed according to any number of operations such as but not limited to calls or application programming interface API calls between the modules. Similar to that described above with reference to the recipient MCD may also be operable to reply to one or more of the thread participants and or forward the message thread with a reply in the same or similar manner using mobile email protocol.

The method may begin at block in which the forwarding party s MCD which is utilized to carry on an text based conversation with another MCD displays a message thread containing multiple messages between the original two thread participants. An example message thread may be provided as follows 

At block the MCD is operable to present via a user interface an option to the user to forward the message thread to another party who is not one of the original two thread participants. The option may be presented according to any number of suitable techniques including but not limited to a menu based option a hard keyed option and the like. As part of the option the user interface will allow for entry or selection of one or more forwarded recipients to receive the message thread. These may be keyed in or selected from existing data such as from a menu or from contacts data stored in memory.

At block the MCD receives a command by the user to forward the message thread to the one or more thread recipients. As discussed above with reference to the MCD may be adapted to transmit the forwarded message thread using SMS protocol MMS protocol or mobile email protocol. At block upon receiving the instructions to forward the message thread the MCD such as via the SMS client extracts the message text and message sender identifiers e.g. phone number International Mobile Subscriber Identity etc. from each of the individual text messages of the message thread. Additional information can also be extracted according to some embodiments such as but not limited to time and or dates e.g. time date stamp message identifiers nicknames or aliases and the like. At block a flat thread file is generated that contains the message text and sender identifier information and optionally any additional information extracted at block . Any number of file formats for creating the flat thread file can be utilized such as but not limited to text files comma separated files XML files WML files and the like.

Following block is block in which after generating the flat thread file and obtaining the recipient s identifier s the forwarding MCD transmits the flat thread file to the wireless operator system over the wireless network for delivery to each of the identified recipient MCD s . As described the flat thread file may be attached included in or otherwise associated with an SMS message an MMS message or a mobile email according to various embodiments.

In addition according to some embodiments the SMS MMS or email message generated at block may further include adapted header information that contains an indicator associated with a forwarded message thread e.g. the flat thread file . For example the SMS client MMS client or mobile email client may add a Thread ID also referred to as Conversation ID field to the message header that can be used by the service provider system and subsequent message recipient MCD s to indicate that a forwarded message thread is attached or otherwise available. In one embodiment when initially forwarding the message thread from the forwarding MCD the value associated with the Thread ID field is left blank or to a default value leaving the generation and population of the actual unique thread identifier to the service provider system . Even with a blank Thread ID field value the service provider system will be able to identify the incoming SMS MMS or mobile email message as containing a flat thread file for forwarding to one or more recipient MCDs . In another embodiment however the Thread ID field value may be initially populated by the MCD . The field value may be automatically generated by the MCD or may be supplied by the user. According to this example embodiment the wireless operator system may replace the initial Thread ID field value or may retain and utilize and or supplement the Thread ID field value as the unique thread identifier. It is appreciated that according to other embodiments any other suitable techniques for identifying that the SMS MMS or mobile email message transmitted from the forwarding MCD includes a forwarded message thread may be utilized such as but not limited to a status indicator other header field value or values content supplied in the body of the flat thread file content supplied in the body of the SMS MMS or mobile email message and the like. An example SMS header including a blank Thread ID field may be provided as follows 

Accordingly the method may end after block having extracted message content generated a flat thread file and forwarded the flat thread file via an SMS MMS or mobile email message to a wireless operator system for forwarding to one or more forwarding recipients.

The method may begin at block in which the service operator system receives a message containing a flat thread file for forwarding to one or more recipient MCDs . As discussed the message may be an SMS message an MMS message or a mobile email message according to various embodiments. At block the wireless operator system identifies the SMS MMS or mobile email message as containing a flat thread file and generates a unique thread identifier to associate with the forwarded message thread. According to one embodiment the wireless operator system can identify the message as containing a flat thread file by the presence of a Thread ID field in a message header whether initially populated with a unique identifier or not as described with reference to . In another embodiment the wireless operator system may include programmed logic to analyze the content of the message and or attachment received to identify that the message does include a flat thread file for forwarding to one or more recipient MCDs . As previously discussed in some embodiments the service provider system may not generate and associate a unique thread identifier such as when subsequent threading based on a forwarded message is not to be supported utilizing a thread identifier or if one is already generated e.g. by the forwarding MCD etc. . Following block is block in which the wireless operator system stores the flat thread file locally for subsequent delivery to the intended recipient MCD s . The wireless operator system may store the flat thread file temporarily just for initial delivery to the recipient MCD s or it may persist the flat thread file such as if it can be utilized to re forward the message thread when replying or when adding yet additional recipients as thread participants.

At decision block the it is determined whether the wireless operator system is to transmit the flat thread file utilizing SMS MMS or mobile email protocol. In one embodiment the wireless operator system is configured to utilize the same protocol by which the forwarded message was received from the forwarding MCD . Though in other embodiments the wireless operator system may be configured to utilize a different protocol to forward the flat thread file. As one example the wireless operator system may be configured to always forward the flat thread file via MMS protocol when receiving a forwarded flat thread file as an SMS or an MMS message. Additional details of the operations performed according to these different protocols are described with reference to above.

If forwarding the flat thread file as a mobile email such as if the original forwarded message was received as a mobile email at block then block follows in which the unique thread identifier is associated with the mobile email containing the flat thread file and the email message is forwarded to the recipient MCD s . As discussed above the flat thread file may be attached to a mobile email message as an attachment or it may be included in the body of the email. This can depend upon how it is received from the forwarding MCD . At this point the unique thread identifier defined in block is also associated with the email message such as in the header of the email message as described with reference to . Upon receipt of the email message the recipient MCD will process the flat thread file for displaying the forwarded message thread as described with reference to below.

If forwarding the flat thread file as an SMS message or an MMS message then blocks follow. At block a thread availability notification message is transmitted to the recipient MCD s which identifies a location e.g. URI or URL of the flat thread file stored at the wireless operator system . If being forwarded as an SMS message this availability notification may be sent as a typical SMS message a silent SMS message which is not noticed by the user of the recipient MCD but handled by the modified SMS client automatically or a WAP push message. If being forwarded as an MMS message the thread availability notification message may be a conventional MMS control message sent to the MCD with a URI or URL link to the stored flat thread file. At blocks the wireless operator system allows retrieval of the flat thread file by the recipient MCD s such as by an HTTP session initiated by the MCD .

Accordingly the method may end after blocks or having facilitated forwarding a message thread to one or more recipient MCDs as a flat thread file associated with an SMS MMS or mobile email message.

The method may begin at block in which the recipient MCD receives a thread availability notification from the wireless operator system . As described with reference to if the forwarded thread is being sent associated with an SMS or MMS message a notification message is initially transmitted to the recipient MCD after which the MCD is to retrieve or download the flat thread file from the wireless operator system . Thus for messages being sent according to SMS or MMS protocol a flat thread file is not transmitted therewith. However when the flat thread file is being forwarded with a mobile email message then the availability notification received at block may be the actual email message and the flat thread file may be attached embedded or otherwise associated therewith such that the MCD is not required to perform a separate download.

Following block is block in which the recipient MCD retrieves the flat thread file. If the thread availability notification is being sent via SMS or MMS the recipient MCD initiates an HTTP session with the wireless operator system over the Internet via the wireless network such as by utilizing a WAP browser of the MCD . If the thread availability notification is sent as a mobile email message then the MCD simply retrieves the flat thread file from within the email message e.g. from an attachment or from within the body at block . In one embodiment the SMS client of the recipient MCD includes programmed logic to perform the retrieval of the flat thread file such as to initiate the HTTP session utilizing the WAP browser module or to retrieve the flat thread file from the mobile email client. In other embodiments however the MMS client and or the mobile email client may be configured with programmed logic to perform the retrieval of the flat thread file.

Following block is block in which the recipient MCD parses and extracts or otherwise obtains or retrieves the flat thread message file. According to one embodiment the SMS client is configured with programmed logic to perform the parsing and extraction of the message thread content from the flat thread file. In one example the SMS client accesses the flat thread file such as after downloaded by the WAP browser or upon transmission from the MMS client and or the mobile email client. After the SMS client obtains the flat thread file it executes programmed logic to analyze and parse the data which extracts message text and sender information. Extracting the message text and sender information allows displaying the flat thread file on the display of the recipient MCD at block which represents the same similar message thread as forwarded by the forwarding MCD . In one embodiment if a new message having message text was generated and forwarded with the flat thread file from the forwarding MCD it can be appended to the message thread at block for display as the final message in the displayed message thread. In other embodiments some or all of the retrieval parsing and or extracting may be performed by other MCD modules such as by the MMS client and or the mobile email client.

Following block is decision block in which it is determined whether the recipient wishes to reply to the forwarded thread. A reply can be sent to one more than one or all of the original thread participants. In addition a reply can further allow forwarding the original message thread to allow continued display of the message thread in its entirety. If the recipient does not wish to reply at block then the method may end. However if the recipient does wish to reply then decision block follows. At decision block it is determined whether the reply is to include the message thread. This determination may be based on the programmed logic of the MCD or it may be determined by the user. For example according to one embodiment the system may be configured such that the original message thread is not forwarded with a reply and any subsequent messages begin a new message thread which can be grouped according to the unique thread identifier. In another embodiment the system may be configured so the original message thread may always be forwarded with a reply to allow re creating the original message thread and including all subsequent messages in the same original message thread. In yet another embodiment the system may be configured so that only the unique thread identifier is transmitted with the reply message which may allow only messages subsequent to the generation of the unique thread identifier to be grouped in a new message thread or may allow retrieving and forwarding the original message thread from the wireless operator system to re create the original message thread and all subsequent messages.

Accordingly if at block no thread is to be forwarded then block follows. At block an SMS reply message without the original message thread can be sent to one or more recipients according to conventional SMS messaging protocol. For example if replying to both of the original thread participants at this point there would be two but during subsequent correspondence there may be more the SMS client of the MCD may send separate individual SMS reply messages to each recipient or in another example the SMS client may send a single reply message and the wireless operator system such as the SMSC Gateway may replicate the message for delivery to the intended recipients.

However if at block it is determined that the message thread is to be forwarded to re create the original message thread then block follows. At block the flat thread file that is retrieved by the recipient MCD at block can be included with the reply message in the same or similar manner as described with reference to and the operations associated with forwarding the original message thread can be similarly performed. Thus the reply message can include the flat thread file so that upon receipt by the reply recipient MCD s the flat thread file can be retrieved parsed and display the original message thread in addition to the subsequent replies. In another embodiment however instead of the recipient MCD generating a new flat thread file or forwarding the original flat thread file the wireless operator system can retrieve the previously stored original flat thread file based on the unique thread identifier included in the reply message and make the flat thread file available to the new recipient s when transmitting the new reply message.

Otherwise instead of re capturing the original message thread messages when generating a reply message a new thread can be started that does not include any of the original message thread messages but does include any new message that has the unique thread identifier associated therewith. Thus the SMS client or any other programmed logic of an MCD can be programmed to identify messages containing the same unique thread identifier and group them into a single message thread.

The method may therefore end after blocks or depending upon whether a reply message is transmitted and whether a message thread is to be forwarded with the reply message.

Accordingly the example systems and methods described herein provide the ability to share threaded text based messages with other MCDs which have conventionally been restricted to displaying a message thread between two recipients only. However according to the embodiments described herein a message thread can be forwarded to a new recipient MCD by generating a flat thread file and forwarding that flat thread file to the recipient MCD. The flat thread file allows the recipient MCD to parse and extract the original message thread contents between the two original thread participants for display on the new recipient s MCD who could not otherwise participate in the threaded conversation.

Various block and or flow diagrams of systems methods apparatus and or computer program products according to example embodiments are described above. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that are executed on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example embodiments of the invention may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that are executed on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

