---

title: Interactive credential system and method
abstract: The interactive credential system and method has a database containing employee-employer-applicant surveyed information, industry specific criteria, such as insurance loss history and account performance, an authorization code for authorizing access to the database and a control device, operatively associated with the database, for presenting weighted scores. The system further includes a surveyed party processor operatively associated with the control device, and wherein the surveyed party processor is capable of transmitting the authorization code to view the surveyed information. The system also has a participant processor that is capable of requesting authorization to download the employee-employer-applicant information, including weighted scores computed from the system's algorithms processed from industry specific parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290797&OS=08290797&RS=08290797
owner: Evalscore, LLC
number: 08290797
owner_city: Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100804
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 213 468 filed on Jun. 19 2008 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 081 130 filed on Apr. 10 2008 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 710 885 filed on Feb. 26 2007 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 480 679 filed on Jul. 3 2006 now abandoned .

The present invention relates to the information technology industry for the systematic implementation of resource management using employee employer applicant dynamics and participant surveys. More specifically but not by way of limitation the present invention relates to an interactive credential system and method incorporating industry specific parameters for evaluation and subsequent scoring with emphasis on a proprietary method of employment insurance and finance information processing.

As the insurance industry has incorporated the use of Medical Information Bureaus MIB s for Life and Health Insurance underwriting and Motor Vehicle Reports MVR s and claims information provided by CLUE for property and casualty insurance risks this invention in one embodiment is designed to launch a web based system to provide real time employee credentials for employment and insurance underwriting by full disclosure of prior work history performance and specialized credentials while eliminating insurance and financial information processing deficiencies that currently exist in the prior art.

The system herein disclosed consists of an interactive web based information inference engine for the management of employee credentials as well as prior work history and performance as reported by industry sources. The system may include a certification program to award all companies that incorporate the system for the maintenance of current employees new hires as well as the real time processing of pertinent information critical to industries such as insurance and finance. The system allows for a second tier of performance information on businesses in order to provide consumers with real time full disclosure of businesses past performance and or their aggregated analysis of insurance loss history performance customer satisfaction and weighted scoring. The system may include the launching of a secure business web site through the incorporation of password protection and personal pin numbers to insure the privacy of each applicant s scoring and the restriction of use by unauthorized personnel. Such a system of industry specific criteria evaluated scored and monitored in real time through electronic alerts does not exist in the prior art.

In another embodiment an interactive credential system and method that utilizes a survey system is also disclosed. Survey information of a surveyed party is compiled from various respondents. The survey information is used by participants of the system as fully disclosed in the description of the preferred embodiments.

Therefore there is a need for an on demand systematic real time performance scoring method as a management tool in order to improve the underwriting process of insurance policies credit provisions as well as the management of employees with industry specific credentials. By virtue of the disclosed system member companies will experience economic efficiencies from the reduction of Human Resource activity for new hire verification reference checks on discharged employees and insurance cost savings by the improved risk management practices through behavior modification and improved safety provisions by the incorporation of real time loss control alerts provided by program implementation. Additionally as the insurance industry has incorporated multiple tools for underwriting consideration the current industry methods fall short of real time insurance performance analysis and measurable non discriminatory indexes therefore there is a need for a single interactive credential system and method wherein a participant can be surveyed by various respondents and scored by real time insurance loss history performance by line of coverage based upon historical earned premium vs. claims experience with a separate assessment and scoring model for insurance performance indicators such as insurance payment history non renewals cancellations misrepresentations etc. with weighted results of scores and sub scores calculated and made available to selected participants.

Prior to the establishment of credit bureaus many businesses were forced to verify credit ratings on prospective clients prior to the granting of credit based upon the disclosure of the prospective client s credit facilities and payment history. This effort was time consuming and costly to the prospective creditors as each disclosed creditor would have to be contacted manually for a credit rating or payment history. Thus if your prospective client had established credit with SEARS JC PENNY Joe s Hardware VISA etc. it was imperative that each individual creditor disclose individual ratings and payment history in order for new credit facilities to properly underwrite the credit risk.

This process was costly as it required additional credit personnel in order to gather the credit information to establish the credit worthiness of the applicant and the establishment of a new line of credit. Many credit facilities had limited hours of operation for this specific tasks and restricted many retailers from establishing credit for point of sale transactions.

After undergoing a financial revolution whereby credit information was consolidated by a third party into a clearing house scored and then made available to prospective credit facilities for a nominal charge with the touch of a keystroke many of these problems were alleviated.

As the present insurance industry shares many of the deficiencies of the early years of credit bureaus a new business model and method is required to similarly revolutionize the commercial and personal insurance industry while also contributing to an enhanced risk management culture.

Currently the commercial insurance industry is impaired by underwriting inefficiencies due to the lack of access to complete real time insurance loss history available at point of sale to be utilized in the evaluation of risk in the underwriting process much like the credit industry of the past. Currently the industry typically requires the assembly of prior loss experience of up to five years of previous coverages provided by each insurance company for each policy period by line of coverage for underwriting consideration. Although each company could make electronic data available to insured s agent of record it would not benefit other agents attempting to quote risk and the process would still be time consuming for the retrieval of each detailed policy history but most importantly would lack the detail of automation and the aggregated analysis of all prior years as requested by prospective insurers for trending. Example if the insured has been insured by 3 insurance companies over the past 5 years the information retrieved by company A would not reflect information for company B and C. Therefore the need for the collection aggregation evaluation assessment and subsequent scoring of the present method.

Many states have enacted laws that require insurance companies to provide the policy holder with their loss experience with a request properly executed with name policy number policy period etc. Many states have enacted laws specifying a maximum number of days that the insurance company has to comply. As an example Louisiana law provides that an insurance company must provide this information within 30 days of a duly executed request. Therefore U.S. commercial insurance policy holders are disadvantaged by the process of choosing new insurers due to the time delay and the effort to seek their previous loss runs from several companies within the typical 5 year previous history which is resolved by the real time process of this method.

Insurance companies can hold this provision as leverage against a current policyholder as some will hold out until the final deadline in order to prevent their insured from seeking other competitive bids. Further many insurance companies will not quote a new risk without a completed application along with the required loss runs attached in order to properly evaluate the risk. Also insurers are disadvantaged by the absence of real time numerical assessments of loss history and account performance and lack format continuity provided by current static information which requires the constant request of updated history as the loss history may change for years after receipt due to long tail liability claims delays in the legal system and litigation time frame due to docket congestion.

John Doe as an example may have a loss recorded on his loss run with a large reserve posted and expected to pay only to have the courts award a judgment more or less than the reserve and the loss runs will be adjusted to reflect an increase or decrease in renewal premium based on the action. Therefore updated loss runs are necessary for accurate underwriting and each year insurance companies request updated information to determine eligibility or appropriate pricing. Existing experience modifiers available today for general liability commercial auto and workers compensation insurance provided by bureau associations fall short of real time data as they reflect a time when loss history worksheets had to be assembled after each policy period and mailed to the associations to be placed in line for processing with other risk of the same classification therefore a policy written in 2006 uses a 2005 modifier that is based on 2004 and earlier information for example therefore this method continues to provide data that is a staggering minimum of 12 months old but only reflects actual reported loss information on each risk as compared to others in the same classification. With the technological advances of the present method emods could be replaced with real time scores for a more accurate display of historical performance with real time monitoring provisions enhancing decision making processes for loss control claims prevention safety divisions or special interest parties such as commercial lenders that could utilize such data. The disclosed method proposes a global authorization executed by insured at point of sale by affidavit or part of the standard application in compliance with FCRA policy much like credit application disclosures for the release of credit satisfying the request by all previous insurers for the release of specific time frame loss history and account performance data for electronic distribution to the present system for loss history aggregation and real time scoring with separate scoring assessments of insurance premium payment performance indicators for future loss predictability while making available premium and loss statistics by classification for real time modifiers and future rate promulgation.

Many states provide a minimum number of days required for an insurance company to issue non renewal or cancellation of a poor performing risk and therefore up to date real time insurance loss history insurance account performance information as well as real time motor vehicle report modification downloads as provided herein through electronic alerts are required to reduce insurance company expense ratios through automated underwriting policy issuance improved operational efficiencies and a reduction in claim frequency and severity resulting in lower premiums for the policyholders. These needs and many others will be met by the following described system.

In a first preferred embodiment the system will provide baseline credentials containing industry specific criteria with automatic updating of time sensitive information. Certifications and continuing education requirements will be updated instantaneously and reflect status of such requirements. The system can provide for automatic downloads with certification agencies and specific industries in order to receive real time information electronically in an approved format.

A sample illustrative list of agencies that can communicate data includes the State Real Estate Commission Insurance Companies State Department of Motor Vehicles Public Safety or other Driving Record providers Mortgage Lenders Legal and Bar Associations State Licensing Departments such as State Board of Nursing and other approved certification agencies. The collected information will be processed by a proprietary algorithm with subsequent scoring available to all member companies through client authorization much like credit reports.

The database of employment applicant records and industry specific criteria such as insurance scores etc. will then be available for a nominal fee to authorized users. All employees in the system shall have identification cards with specified identification numbers that can be made available to the human resources departments to pull employment records within seconds. The system creates an employment database that will receive all information regarding that applicant s profession duration of employment compensation indicators special achievements certifications employment valuations industry specific criteria and the current status of each. A real time resume that has been evaluated through a series of algorithmic computations and scored for numeric assessment of groups and sub groups constantly updated in real time and monitored through electronic alerts is possible with the teachings of this invention.

In this first embodiment a provision can be included to better educate consumers about artesian contractors like carpenters roofers electricians etc. Unlike prior art that encompasses external factors for contractor scoring this method incorporates internal provisions of real time insurance loss history performance disclosure including consumer valuation complaint provisions and electronic alerts to Special Interest Parties such as insurance companies general contractors monitoring sub contractors License and Permit sections State Licensure Departments etc. These members could have performance scores available to customers through proper authorization prior to work engagement as scored by this system based upon a contractor s prior claim performance as reported by previous insurers and customer satisfaction results evaluated by premium size policy duration and complaint filings in order for full disclosure of job performance.

Therefore small contractors will be based upon the same criteria as large contractors adjusted by premium size and specific rating indicators such as loss ratios rate per thousand etc. A larger revenue results in greater exposure which in turn results in a larger premium. As an example Contractor A has a 50 000.00 annual premium 12 months 3 complaints. Contractor B has a 5 000.00 annual premium 12 months 3 complaints. Contractor A has 10 times the revenue premium and therefore the applicable score for this component could be 10 times better than that of Contractor B after the adjustment of rating basis. These complaint filings are in the form of a complaint similar to a complaint filed on an insurance company with the department of insurance however unlike the present method prior methods have failed to provide performance disclosure on individual insureds based upon these parameters and further fail to provide consumer participation in the evaluation process which enhances contractor accountability and the disclosure of fraud and abuse.

In a second preferred embodiment an interactive credential system is disclosed. The system comprises a database containing employee information authorization means for authorizing access to the database and control means operatively associated with the database for presenting the employee information in a first format. The employee information is processed through an algorithm utilizing employment dynamics as well as industry specific scoring assessments such as insurance and financial indicators in order to compute an employer employee applicant weighted score. The interactive system provides for an authorization code for authorizing access to the database and control device operatively associated with the database in order for disclosure of score presentation. The system further includes an employee processor operatively associated with the control means and wherein the employee processor is capable of transmitting authorization to view the employee information.

In this second embodiment the system further comprises an employer processor in communication with the authorization means and wherein the employer processor is capable of requesting authorization to download the employee information. The control means may contain means for requiring that the employer request includes payment of the request fee and means for requiring that the employee authorization includes payment of the request fee. In the most preferred embodiment the first format of the employee information includes a weighted score performed by algorithm. The employee information may consist of health drug testing information and or employment screen information education information employment evaluations insurance information criminal information and or professional certification information and industry specific scoring.

A method of providing employee information is also disclosed. The method comprises storing employee information on a database such as employment performance evaluations transmitting authorization to view the employee information via an employee processor operatively associated with a control means and authenticating and authorizing third parties access to the database. The method may further include presenting the employee information in a first format via the control means and wherein the control means is operatively associated with the database.

The method may further comprise communicating an employer processor with the control means and requesting authorization to download the employee information with the employer processor. In one embodiment the step of requesting authorization to download employee information includes paying a request fee by the employer in order to view the employee information. Additionally the step of transmitting authorization to make available employee information via an employee user processor may include paying a user fee by the employee in order to post the employee information to the database.

In a third embodiment which is the most preferred embodiment of this disclosure a method of providing survey information of a surveyed party is disclosed. The method comprises storing the survey information on a database transmitting authorization to view the information via a surveyed party processor operatively associated with a control means authenticating and authorizing third parties access to said database and presenting the survey information in a first format via the control means and wherein the control means is operatively associated with the database. The method further comprises communicating a participant processor with the control means and requesting authorization to download said survey information with the participant processor.

In one preferred embodiment the step of requesting authorization to download the survey information includes paying a request fee by the participant in order to view the survey information. Also the step of transmitting authorization to make available survey information via the surveyed party s processor includes paying a user fee by the surveyed party in order to post the surveyed party s information to the database. Additionally the step of presenting the survey information in a first format includes utilizing an algorithm to calculate a weighted score of the survey information. The survey information is selected from the group consisting of a financial score an academic score an employment score a character score a medical score a professional credential score a reference score a military score a legal score or an insurance score. The method may also include transmitting an alert based on a predetermined criteria selected from the survey information. The participant may be selected from the group consisting of bankers insurance companies lenders employers and court systems.

In yet another most preferred embodiment an interactive credential system is disclosed wherein the system comprises a database comprising survey information of a surveyed party authorization means for authorizing access to the database and control means operatively associated with the database for presenting the survey information in a first format. This system also includes a survey party processor operatively associated with the control means and wherein the survey party processor is capable of transmitting authorization to view the survey information means for generating an alert when the survey information changes based on predetermined criteria and means for transmitting the alert or EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. to participants in the system.

An advantage of the present method is that companies would finally have an accountability program for the management of their employees and new hires with full disclosure of numerical assessments of performance by the EVALSCORE EMPLOYMENT PERFORMANCE INDEX or EPI . Another advantage is that workers will have to be accountable in order to maintain adequate weighted scores which will contribute to enhanced job performance. Such accountability may be used in the workplace for behavior modification of employees or may be used in other settings for similar behavioral modification purposes.

Yet another advantage is that probation periods will be available for individuals that have experienced hard luck situations and have the opportunity to improve their scores. Another advantage is that companies could use these scores for merit pay and the incentive of good performers. Yet another advantage is that it is possible that companies that maintain a threshold or average employment of weighted scores of some predetermined level could receive special recognition and could be entitled to premium credits on large insurance programs. Also these performance scores will be beneficial to companies being bought and sold as real time disclosure of these criteria will expedite and validate due diligence requirements.

Still yet another advantage is that employers will experience a reduced workload by not having to ever give a reference on an employee and instead interested parties with proper authorization can log on and download the appropriate file. Another advantage is that attorneys could use certain authorized information for discovery purposes. For instance it will be possible to obtain credential information immediately about certifications safety certification expirations etc. Also the system could be used in conjunction with verifying employment information on deadbeat dads eliminating investigative costs to reattach garnishments to new employers.

Another advantage is that financial institutions will reduce loan losses by incorporating an additional underwriting tool that will provide real time employment disclosure as well as commercial debtor insurance performance evaluation scoring which will enhance the predictability of an applicant s future ability to pay. This inventive method also provides for these SPECIAL INTEREST PARTIES to establish user defined real time EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T.s of score modifications based upon job performance indicators such as performance improvements deterioration and or employment termination.

Another advantage is that insurance cost could be reduced for employers by premium credits available for the employment of applicants with a threshold benchmark weighted score such as an employment workforce with a weighted score of 500 or greater. This commitment reflects improved applicant hires and less risk for loss. Also Insurance Companies could provide premium credits to workers compensation insurance policies for participating members due to the loss control alerts provided by this method or by EVALSCORE OVERSIGHT for the advanced notification of expiring credentials such as safety certifications industry specific accreditations or other loss control alerts providing cost containment. Yet another advantage to the insurance industry is larger insurance participation as un insured contractors will be encouraged to participate in the system in order to continue working as customers will demand disclosure of insurance credentials and performance scores for verification.

Still yet another advantage is that hospitals and health care organizations like nursing homes will be protected by tracking all employees specialized credentials and recurrent training as well as past performance evaluations by prior employment and subsequent numerical score assessment by the present method. CPR and other specialized credentials will be updated through association sponsored links like Red Cross etc. Also hospitals that hire agency pool nurses for PRN as needed shifts will have complete disclosure of score performance of these health care professionals by the numerical assessment of the present system and method. Hospitals and Nursing Homes that are at risk due to poor background information on specific nurses that are sent at the last minute to simply cover nurse patient ratios through agency pools will benefit from this method by real time disclosure of prior job performance and specialized credentials prior to work engagement with EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. monitoring of critical score modifications protecting health care organizations and health care recipients.

Yet another advantage is that commercial entities will be able to protect themselves from the expiration of industry specific criteria such as CDL expirations for commercial trucking firms and will have a management tool for improved information disclosure on new hires contract drivers and lease operations though score disclosure of past performance and real time EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T.s for score modifications that will assist the Federal Transportation Risk Management oversight initiatives. The energy sector contains several industry specific training programs for various disciplines and the weighted score will become a source of acknowledgment and verification of completion by data links to these specific industry criteria with monitoring features providing protection to SPECIAL INTEREST PARTIES such as workers compensation insurance companies OSHA ISO MMS etc. from the expiration of industry specific criteria crucial to safety loss control requirements. Real time full disclosure will be very important to cyclical industries which have been known to hire large numbers of employees in a short period of time and lack the manpower for comprehensive evaluations. The weighted score used in this invention will aid these cyclical industries with staffing by real time full disclosure and score assessment of prior work experience certifications and achievements.

Another advantage is that the system will assist employees to be better employees in order to maintain their score and achieve compensation incentives promotions for enhanced work performance. Yet another advantage is that the system will assist employers businesses and independent contractors to be better businesses as they will be subject to full disclosure of performance. An applicant can use the World Wide Web a wireless device or call a telephone number with a proper pin identification and obtain information regarding businesses.

A feature of the present invention is that the system allows for a one stop shop for recordation of employee history industry specific criteria subsequent performance scoring and real time monitoring. Another feature is good performers can be recognized quickly and rewarded while poor performers will not. Another feature is that incentive pay will induce employees to achieve better scores. Yet another feature is that it is possible that employees with good weighted performance scores and marginal credit scores will have the opportunity for credit accommodation due to employment disclosure.

Another feature is that operational efficiencies will be experienced for all member companies with the reduction of human resource labor through the incorporation of automation and instantaneous file updating for minute to minute accuracy. Yet another feature is that an applicant can use the system as an updated resume. From the base line all information will be updated instantaneously for real time accuracy. When a request exists for a resume the applicant can reference the system. Once the applicant provides the personal identification code access will be granted.

Another feature is that employer special achievement awards will be credited for enhancement of weighted scores likewise complaints filed against the employer will be harmful. As we have experienced the fragmentation of the present industry survey system without any meaningful consumer interpretation this method seeks to achieve score standardization among all industries with consumer access to real time full disclosure.

An advantage of the third embodiment which is the most preferred embodiment of this disclosure includes protecting consumers from poor performing businesses. Another advantage is that the system has a component that allows for consumer evaluation and complaint processing of poor performance. Still yet another advantage is that the consumer can participate in the scoring of employers.

Another advantage is that the system protects vendors from poor performing relationships and provides for vendor evaluation component. Vendors could establish benchmark scores as criteria for vendor list participation. Yet another advantage is that the most preferred embodiment of this disclosure allows for employee participation in the evaluation of the employer. This participation allows for constructive information on improving workplace environment conditions etc.

Another advantage is that the system allows a means for prospective employees to analyze the employer by using the rating generated by the survey performance of existing employees of their employer. Still yet another advantage is that the process acknowledges specific industry associations to participate in the evaluation of members through evaluation surveys. Yet another advantage of this most preferred embodiment the process allows for special accreditation programs such as ISO International Organization for Standardization for the energy sector and Joint Commission Accreditation for the Health Care Industry to participate in the evaluation process based upon annual survey data and contributes to the specially calculated and weighted score.

A feature of the third and most preferred embodiment is that parents and guardians will be able to rate evaluate teachers by personal experience to provide disclosure for others making choices for their children. This process will aid teacher performance as they will have an incentive to achieve satisfactory measurement. Another feature of the most preferred embodiment is that clients of professionals will have access to professional insurance scores based upon real time insurance loss history performance and consumer satisfaction dissatisfaction as provided by customer surveys for a quantified measurement rather than the reliance of word of mouth recommendations for specific professions. Therefore the consumer will finally have recourse on poor performance relationships without litigation as a sole remedy.

Similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the attached drawings.

The system and method disclosed herein consists of an interactive web based information inference engine for the management of employee employer applicant credentials and industry specific criteria as well as prior work history and performance as reported by member resources. The site will assist employers in the management of their most important asset their employees as well as provide the public with full disclosure of employer s performance based upon insurance experience and participant surveys in order to protect the consumer from fraud and abuse. The created database collects employer credentials and insurance loss history and performance indicators for the application of employer performance base scoring. The system may incorporate employee employer dynamics as well as the management of industry specific requirements such as continuing education requirements CPR certification for the medical industry safety training for the energy sector recurrent training for pilots etc.

Referring now to a block diagram depicting a first embodiment of the present system will now be described. As shown in an employee would communicate with the database . In the most preferred embodiment the employee has an employee computer also referred to as a user processor. The employee computer has means for communication with the Internet and the worldwide web such as a modem or any other suitable type of network interface. It should be understood that the various networked systems described herein may interface with one another via any suitable type of network including local area networks LANs or wide area networks WANs such as the Internet.

As per the teachings of the system the database contains the web interface means so that the employee computer can communicate with the database. The employee computer may communicate e.g. via wireless transmission data and information including authorization to obtain data from various third party content custodians as will be more fully explained below. The employee computer may also authorize payment of any fees required for use of the system.

Calculations are performed by the processor which may be any suitable type of computer processor and may be displayed to the user on the display which may be any suitable type of computer display. As described above the system preferably includes a network interface such as a modem or the like allowing the computer to be networked with either a local area network or a wide area network such as the Internet for example.

The processor may be associated with or incorporated into any suitable type of computing device for example a personal computer or a programmable logic controller. The display the processor the memory and any associated computer readable media are in communication with one another by any suitable type of data bus as is well known in the art. Additionally other standard components such as a printer or the like may interface with system via any suitable type of interface.

Examples of computer readable media include a magnetic recording apparatus an optical disk a magneto optical disk and or a semiconductor memory for example RAM ROM etc. . Examples of magnetic recording apparatus that may be used in addition to memory or in place of memory include a hard disk device HDD a flexible disk FD and a magnetic tape MT . Examples of the optical disk include a DVD Digital Versatile Disc a DVD RAM a CD ROM Compact Disc Read Only Memory and a CD R Recordable RW.

Referring now to a block diagram depicting a second embodiment of the present system will now be described. is a higher level diagram from the illustration of . In the embodiment of an employee gives his authorization and the authorization is sent via the employee computer to authorization interface . As depicted the authorization interface is operatively associated with the database and with the control means .

Various member entities will be in communication with the database stored in memory . depicts five member entities but this listing is illustrative only. In one preferred embodiment the member entities will pay a required fee to access the database and any proprietary weighting score accomplished according to the teachings of the present invention. Hence member entity will communicate with the control means which is preferably processor of server which in turn will communicate with the authorization interface to check on authorization and if there is authorization then the member will be allowed access to the data and information sought. further shows the member in communication with the control means the member in communication with the control means the member in communication with the control means and the member in communication with the control means . Members and receive authorization information and data as mentioned earlier in the discussion of the member .

This information is sent to a central processing unit CPU for processing analysis and score weighing in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. CPU may be in communication with processor of server or may be all or part of processor or may operate parallel therewith. The analysis and score weighing is done by algorithm application of industry specific parameters. A weighted score can then be assigned to that person. With the teachings of this invention it is possible to commercially distribute weighted scores sub scores from applicant files of a particular segment e.g. employment history insurance experience or a group of factors e.g. academic military rank and financial data or all the factors. The weighted score can then be disseminated as requested from member entities such as employers a financial entity a government entity an insurance company public access an industry association a specific court or some other entity . The listings and are meant to be illustrative only.

Referring now to a data flowchart of the third embodiment which is the most preferred embodiment of this disclosure illustrating the generation of an employer score based on multiple surveys and real time insurance performance will now be described. This embodiment allows the employee the ability to participate in the evaluation of the employer. This component will be included in the index criteria along with real time insurance performance scoring and the evaluation by vendors by customers by industry associations and by special accreditation organizations. The evaluations are calculated and weighted via the algorithm for the actual EVALSCORE while making available sub scores for categorical disclosure to interested parties.

As employers under the weighted score system provide input into the overall scoring on each applicant this preferred system allows for the employee to anonymously rate the employer in an employee satisfaction category to be weighted in the overall evaluation. It has been found that corporations utilize proprietary surveys for employees in order to determine the strengths and weaknesses of each division and recommendations for improvement. However no recognizable standardization exists in the prior art. With standardization employers can use these results as compared to other employers to assist in recruiting other competent employees or in advertising to the general public. In the most preferred embodiment the system can be adapted to include means for parents to evaluate teachers. The process herein disclosed will provide an incentive for teachers to achieve improvement and excellence in the classroom.

Referring now to a data flowchart of the third and most preferred embodiment of this disclosure showing the generation of alert transmissions to selected participants will now be described. An EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. SPECIAL INTEREST PARTY provision is disclosed to provide instantaneous notification of any significant changes to the employer employee applicant file such as for example poor performance evaluations job termination re hire score reduction etc. The alert function is provided to special interest entities also referred to as participants such as insurance companies licensing boards banks credit companies courts etc. Special interest entities participants in this embodiment will be able to park on an applicant s file for change notification alerts. In the most preferred embodiment a special interest group with authorization of the applicant may monitor the score and conditions of the applicant where the authorization is granted in part by the payment of an authorization fee.

As illustrated according to the data flow of and based upon predetermined criteria once a survey score declines exceeds a threshold an employer signal is generated at and this signal notification is transmitted to the central processing unit . As an example XYZ Bank makes a loan to an applicant based upon his EVALSCORE Employment Strength Weakness and Financial Score based upon existing performance numbers. The bank makes the loan at 8 interest with provisions that the applicant meet or exceed his loan based numbers and should the applicant s performance cause a decline in the EVALSCORE the bank could use this opportunity on a variable loan to increase the loan rate of interest to reflect the increased risk of the applicant. Therefore at the point of sale the applicant would execute authority for the bank to park on the applicant s file as a SPECIAL INTEREST PARTY SIP for alert notification. The bank could use the same model to reduce the applicant s rate of interest if the score improves. This will give the applicant the incentive to achieve excellence. Additionally this could also work with insurance companies for increase decrease in insurance premiums based upon insurance performance i.e. risk versus reward.

As seen in the initiation of the signal notification is downloaded and stored in the employee file which in turn will generate an alert . As per the teachings of this disclosure the generation of the alert is transmitted to various participants as seen at . The participants will include bank entities credit entities court entities insurance company entities etc. It should be noted that list is illustrative only. It should be further noted that a change in an EVALSCORE and or other conditions which will cause an alert signal to be generated occur in real time meaning that the EVALSCORE is constantly updated based upon desired factors and alerts regarding changes in the EVALSCORE of interest are sent to the subscribing third parties at the time of the change or update thus alerting the third parties in real time.

As per the teachings of the present invention lenders with an interest in the applicant i.e. the surveyed party due to loans credit cards etc. will be able to receive instant electronic notification of score changes job changes etc. Court systems will be able to monitor defendants i.e. the surveyed party for probation violations child support garnishments change of job change of address etc. Unlike the present conventional method of anticipating a claim insurance companies will be able to monitor the insured i.e. the surveyed party like contractors for example and if poor performance trends deteriorate the score of the applicant insurance companies will be able to issue non renewals and escape risk or surcharge the premium for the exposure at renewal. General contractors will want to monitor sub contractors for risk management. If a sub contractor is receiving consumer complaints that are unresolved the sub contractor will realize that it is at risk of losing general contractor s relationship.

Also if a surveyed party s performance is poor insurance programs may be non renewed resulting in the surrender of the relationship. Insurance companies will be able to provide savings to clients via reduced premiums if the party being reviewed i.e. the party who is being ranked via the survey maintains an acceptable weighted score. Additionally licensing boards could participate in the instant notification of weighted scores when for instance an entity under license review by the licensing board such as a contractor falls below a predetermined threshold score and places the public at risk. Hence the license board could choose to non renew or provisionally accept based in part on the weighted scores. Further company vendors could participate in the SPECIAL INTEREST PARTY program for instant notification of potential problems with business relationships.

As an example an insurance company will require a benchmark weighted score for pricing based upon past insurance performance risk versus reward where the insurance company will activate the EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. function on a surveyed weighted party file as a SPECIAL INTEREST PARTY . Therefore the insurance company can establish parameters for instant notification of motor vehicle operator violations provided by the present inventive method of MVR procurement as further described in detail below employment changes customer complaints of poor performance on commercial risks misrepresentations or other established underwriting parameters that will provide the insurance company with decision making criteria to elect to non renew coverages before unnecessary losses occur thus saving the insurance company unnecessary claims expense.

Hence instant notification provides warnings to participants that changes are occurring and action may be needed to protect themselves from loss. The system herein disclosed protects banks and credit companies from financial losses and the recurrence of another sub prime meltdown due to the internal parameters established for employment performance disclosure validation evaluation assessment with subsequent scoring incorporating real time alert monitoring. The system also protects insurance companies writing commercial insurance from unnecessary claim expense by real time disclosure of score modification and complaint provisions for early intervention and or issuance of non renewal or cancellation of poor performing risks. The system protects vendors from declining relationships and protects courts from unnecessary investigative expense in processing garnishments due to the instant notification of employment termination and or re employment. Additionally the system protects general contractors by poor performing sub contractors. The system also protects licensing boards from the renewals of poor performing licensees.

The above methodology is particularly applicable to the insurance and finance industry. Unlike current underwriting tools available this method may be used for loss predictability based upon real time actual insurance loss experience and scoring assessment encompassing only insurance indicators of each specific risk with the incorporation of interactive performance monitoring in a single database.

As shown in the collection storage and score assessment of insurance loss experience and performance indicators provided by insurance companies on behalf of insureds can be calculated in a manner similar to that described above with the collection of general information such as the named insured policy year policy number line of coverage etc. along with the insurance specific information such as commercial auto insurance general liability insurance garage insurance property insurance inland marine insurance workers compensation home insurance and personal auto insurance . It should be understood that this listing is shown for exemplary purposes only and any insurance related factors may be used such as for example cargo insurance umbrella insurance excess liability insurance difference in conditions insurance motor home insurance recreational vehicle insurance motorcycle insurance watercraft insurance vehicle insurance commercial insurance and personal insurance liability fidelity bonds and surety bonds etc.

Specifically the mathematical algorithm assessment is applied by CPU for numerical score determination or a C.L.A.I.M. Index based upon written premiums earned premiums incurred losses paid losses subrogations recoverables loss adjustment expenses and established loss reserves as well as an Insurance Payment Index IPI computed from actual payment performance indicators of insurance premium payment history late payment history policy cancellations non renewals audit payment history and policy underwriting accuracy and or misrepresentations etc. and consumer complaints for commercial risks. It should be understood that this listing of factors is provided for exemplary purposes only.

This method allows for the collection evaluation and assessment of real time loss history and insurance performance as provided by insurance company downloads by electronic media point of sale purchase of real time loss information by insurers or other authorized parties scored by actual performance experience nominal fees charged based on years of data lines of coverage etc. and real time performance trend monitoring or EVALSCORE OVERSIGHT and score modification provided by insurance company downloads to the present system of loss history updates and specific insurance performance indicators such as insurance payment history non renewals cancellations motor vehicle incident report modifications etc. A website implementation may incorporate commercial insurance client provisions for electronic alerts created by poor performance indicators filed in the form of complaints directly to insurance companies the present method by customers of the insured such as that shown in . These EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T.s may provide an opportunity for the insurance company to intervene for dispute resolution prior to economic loss and or the cancellation or non renewal of poor performing risks.

With appropriate authorization customers will have access to the present system for full disclosure and evaluation of their relationship prior to engagement thus preventing economic loss created by poor workmanship incomplete work or fraud. The consumer further has the ability to file a meaningful complaint on work performed directly to the insurance company of the insured. Poor performers will have an incentive to provide satisfactory work as the impact will cost them money in the form of higher insurance premiums or the risk of the insurance program in its entirety.

In B and C generation of a sample report is illustrated. At step a potential customer contacts the EVALSCORE system a unique one time number for the customer to access the system acting as a personal identification number PIN for accessing the system. As will be described further below a contractor for example calls the EVALSCORE system for a job order and receives the computer generated one time number. The contractor provides this number to the customer for access to his EVALSCORE . The customer wishes to receive a report on John Doe Plumbing who is assigned an ID number in the database at for generation of report . At the customer calls which may take place on a toll free 800 phone number to receive the evaluation score is connected at and is offered a menu at . The customer may receive the entire EVALSCORE report insurance related information or complaint related information.

The system collates information from SPECIAL INTEREST PARTIES SIPs insurance related information claim information in this example and complaint filings against the customer with a specific detailed example shown at . This information is collated into the report which includes general bibliographic information insurance and SIP evaluations a complaint registry and an overall score .

Implementation of the above method will allow insurance companies to save costs and reduce expense ratios through the elimination of the present loss history request and retrieval system while providing savings from underwriting automation by the aggregation and real time scoring of loss history information eliminating manual manipulation and savings from the implementation of electronic loss control alerts and monitoring provided by EVALSCORE OVERSIGHT . Insurance companies will be able to slot rate insureds after the merging of data based on the present method converted into a reliable numerical assessment aiding automation thereby reducing underwriting costs. Further delays in the receipt of loss history of previous insurers are eliminated. The present method requires manual requests in addition to time frame parameters that hinder the transfer of business.

Real time performance trending of insureds is further provided by the present method within the insurance category as provided herein. In addition to real time downloads of loss history changes the present method provides electronic notification by EVALSCORE OVERSIGHT to insurers and other interested authorized parties of hot spots in commercial insured s performance in the form of complaints filed by dissatisfied customers and is reflected in the EVALSCORE Satisfaction Index ESI . Notification provides the insurance company or authorized party with an opportunity for early intervention prior to loss. As an example the John Doe Service Company performs work for Chevron USA with a required EVALSCORE of 600 or better. The John Doe Service Company experiences financial difficulty and many long time quality employees depart. Work performance deteriorates on other jobs thus decreasing John Doe s score below required threshold and Chevron USA terminates the relationship prior to economic loss.

In addition to real time downloads of loss history changes and payment history updates this system provides for electronic alerts from a proprietary Motor Vehicle Report MVR procurement system providing real time MVR incident revision notifications. Unlike existing prior art which provides a method for insurance companies to enter advanced requests with applicable charges for the procurement of MVRs regardless of incident changes prior to renewal for underwriting review such as policies renewing in June which can be automatically run in April giving the insurer 60 days for review and underwriting action if necessary this system provides for an interactive model consisting of real time communication with appropriate State Motor Vehicle Divisions or other providers of such reports as a SPECIAL INTEREST PARTY for instant alerts and MVR procurement. The instant alerts are provided only to this system for those applicants that have experienced negative implications since policy inception such as for example speeding violations DUI careless and reckless driving etc. therefore saving the insurance industry potentially millions of dollars from the purchase of MVRs reflecting N R No Record .

As insurance companies spend millions of dollars annually on the procurement of MVRs for initial policy issuance as well as renewal processing this method will save the insurance industry millions of dollars as they will only incur charges for MVRs on renewal policies that have experienced negative change since policy inception. As an example ABC Insurance Company purchases MVRs for policy issuance and if any violations are noted they are recorded for the chargeable duration of the offense such as a minor moving violation being 3 years DUI being 5 years etc. Therefore insurers only have an interest in negative implications since inception that will adversely affect risk and resulting score requiring underwriting action as they know from initial issuance that any existing negative items will drop off in time and will be reflected in the revised Motor Vehicle Index MVI . This inventive process allows real time additional premium endorsements on violations that occur during the policy period rather than waiting for the policy renewal date to non renew risk or surcharge premium as per company filings.

Under the current procedures a negative change mid term requires the insurer to wait until policy renewal to collect an additional premium however if the risk is not worthy of the renewal due to the changes insurers will not renew the policy. The insurers however are disadvantaged by the lack of additional premium for the increased exposure during this remaining policy period. Therefore with the present inventive process insurance companies can respond to negative risk in real time processing by the execution of additional premium endorsements providing pro rata charges for the exposure.

This process will also allow return premium endorsements in real time for individuals with violations expiring mid term which historically had to be processed at time of renewal therefore eliminating the discriminatory process of collecting insurance premiums from insureds whose violations are no longer valid. As an example John Doe s policy period is Jan. 1 2008 to Jul. 1 2008 and a three year old speeding violation will expire on Apr. 1 2008. The present method provides for a return premium endorsement of the surcharged amount from Apr. 1 2008 to Jul. 1 2008. Although this method provides for real time endorsements of additional premiums as well as credit endorsements where applicable the biggest advantage to the industry is cost savings through renewal processing and reduced claims costs by real time MVR notification to insurers of negative events and resulting Motor Vehicle Index MVI score modifications requiring underwriting action.

An exemplary MVR application is shown in . At block John Doe is issued a speeding violation on Jun. 4 2008. In block John Doe pays the fine to the local court authorities on Jul. 5 2008. The state department of motor vehicles DMV represented by block is alerted and an MVR alert conforming with the present inventive method is issued at block and transmitted to the EVALSCORE CPU . The new score is generated by CPU and the information represented by block is passed both back into the system and into the generation of a report having an updated MVI score based on the violation data and showing generalized bibliographic information payment related information a calculated insurance payment index IPI score and an overall auto insurance score or Auto C.L.A.I.M. Index . It should be noted that after the driver John Doe pays the fine at the court system sends the information to the DMV for recordation which is linked to the general MVR alert . That recordation reflects a change in the driving record for John Doe and triggers electronic notification alert to the EVALSCORE system for score modification by EVALSCORE CPU . The modified EVALSCORE is shown in block and serves as a trigger for notification to John Doe s insurer for premium modification in real time. In the example on Jul. 10 2008 the EVALSCORE processor reduces the motor vehicle report index MVI in real time and notifies Safeco Insurance Company of negative change block . On Jul. 10 2008 Safeco Insurance Company labeled as in sends additional premium endorsement to John Doe for a 5 surcharge for the minor moving violation as per state filings. John Doe s six month premium of 1 179 receives a 5 surcharge of 59.00 computed for pro rata charges of 39.00 for the violation of the Jun. 4 2008 to Nov. 1 2008 policy expiration. In display segment notes the decrease in score from 1000 to 900 due to the vehicular incident. A visual indicator such as the exemplary downwardly pointing arrow next to the display segment may further be utilized as shown.

Additionally using the previously described methods above general contractors also will be able to monitor sub contractors and require minimum scores for bid participation license and permit Sections can monitor EVALSCORES for all licensees and receive notification when performance is unacceptable requiring regulatory action. With specific regard to insurance the method encourages the insured to achieve satisfaction. With the EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. notification function insureds will be forced to strive for excellence in order to reduce complaints thus reducing loss and premium costs.

The present method further allows for the early detection of exposure variances. After the insurer has written the insured and inspected risk the insured may deviate from the initial exposure and begin tasks that are not warranted in the original rating base. With the electronic alert function i.e. the EVALSCORE A.L.E.R.T. if the insurer receives a complaint on the insured for a scope of work not included in the original application the insurer has an opportunity to request the cease and desist of the activity or issue notice of cancellation or non renewal for misrepresentations.

Using the present methodology the insured will no longer be metaphorically held hostage by current insurers due to the failure to receive previous loss history in a timely fashion in order to bid the insurance program.

As the insurance industry has embraced credit underwriting tools due to the lack of real time historical loss history performance data for the underwriting of personal insurance coverages such as for example auto home watercraft etc. many insureds are being penalized by higher insurance premiums due to their late payments or high account balances due to VISA MASTERCARD home mortgage lenders etc. as these actions tend to lower credit scores for individuals.

The above inventive method solidifies the basic insurance principal of rating the insured based upon actual insurance experience with actual loss history of the insured in relation to earned premium charges provided by the EVALSCORE C.L.A.I.M. Index as well as sub scores such as the EVALSCORE Insurance Payment Index IPI are computed for future loss predictability based upon actual insurance payment performance indicators that have paralleled relevant credit sources providing an alternative to the current application of third party credit data.

Present systems and methods such as Choice Point s CLUE Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange for example do not make reference to premium payments or earned premiums by line of coverage. Instead they only disclose actual claim payments and do not make reference to reserves instead only stating conditions as open or closed . An open claim could reflect a reserve of 10 000.00 or 10 000 000.00 for example thus the information is inconclusive and requires manual manipulation. Choice Point s CLUE Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange was designed for the disclosure of undiscovered losses of an insured which was beneficial prior to this real time inventive method. The present real time method eliminates the need for undisclosed losses as all claim activity results in real time processing with cross references to items such as drivers license numbers policy numbers insurers etc. for analysis and score modifications. The prior art fails to make reference to premium payments or earned premiums by line of coverage but most importantly fails to provide an aggregated analysis of prior loss history resulting in a real time numerical score for alert generation and underwriting automation providing cost reductions.

Thus a paid claim of 5 000.00 would have minimal effect on an account that has a 20 000.00 earned premium i.e. 5000.00 20 000.00 25 loss ratio. However if the 5 000.00 payment is made on behalf of an account that generates only 2 600.00 in earned premiums the resulting loss ratio is 192 . Thus a great deficiency exists under this system due to the lack of real time aggregated historical data presented in a numerical format which is solved by the above inventive method.

Unlike that shown in the prior art the present method takes into consideration years of experience with actual premium payments written premiums computed for earned premiums vs. actual losses incurred paid and reserved with assessment modifications by actual insurance performance indicators such as late payments cancellations non renewals underwriting misrepresentations non disclosed drivers etc. scored in real time by algorithmic assessment for final score determination. The above method is based on the totality of insurance performance and does not incorporate the possible discriminatory application of non related performance indicators such as third party obligations of debt as provided by the Beacon credit score presently utilized in the underwriting process. Additionally the above method contemplates a comprehensive loss aggregation of insurance measurement or C.L.A.I.M. Index and IPI which may be used as a weighted index such as those described above. Such a C.L.A.I.M. Index as with the similar weighted values described herein is not a final variable of the process for premium determination but rather is a real time insurance performance indicator. Further as more earned premiums go against losses if any the resulting score or C.L.A.I.M. Index will improve. As these values are monitored by third parties in real time subscribers will receive alerts regarding the activity. An insurance payment index or IPI may work in a similar manner. Any current payment activity such as payments delinquencies etc. will affect the IPI or score in real time because the index or score is a numerical assessment reflecting performance.

Additionally an employment related example is illustrated in . Employer which may include a human resources department terminates an employee at . The employee s information at along with the termination information is passed to the EVALSCORE CPU with a revision in the employee s employment information at . At step the revised score is compared with the threshold or benchmark score which as described above is established at an earlier time as a user defined limit or threshold value. As in the above example related to automotive incidents the employee in the present example has an initial score prior to his termination and a modified or revised score post termination. Interested parties such as VISA MASTERCARD a mortgage company creditors and other general interested parties subscribers automatically receive an alert of the change .

It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but encompasses any and all embodiments within the scope of the following claims.

