---

title: Systems and methods for providing recording as a network service
abstract: Systems and methods for providing recording as a network service are provided. A representative method incorporates: communicating instructions to a network, the instructions indicating that IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded are to be directed to long term storage such that the network: receives the instructions; determines whether Internet Protocol (IP) packets, which are being communicated by the network, are associated with a communication that is to be recorded; and directs information corresponding to the IP packets associated with the communication to a long term storage device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483074&OS=08483074&RS=08483074
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08483074
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100428
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 739 filed on Sep. 29 2006 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 817 630 filed on Jun. 29 2006 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Recording of communications is important to many industries particularly those in which compliance regulations have been implemented. In this regard a traditional passive tap Internet Protocol IP recording technique includes recorders that are deployed along routes of communications. In this technique each recorder operates similar to a sniffer by analyzing pass by communication IP packets. Each recorder detects the packets corresponding to certain communication sessions locally stores the sessions by gathering the corresponding packets and then directs the recorded sessions to long term storage. Clearly interfacing such recorders with the communication network in the proper locations is required to ensure that the desired communications are detected and ultimately recorded.

Systems and methods for providing recording as a network service are provided. In this regard an embodiment of such a system comprises a switching device operative to communicate Internet Protocol IP packets of a network with which the switching device is associated receive instructions indicating that IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded are to be directed to long term storage determine which of the IP packets communicated by the switching device are associated with a communication that is to be recorded and direct information corresponding to the IP packets associated with the communication to a long term storage device. The switching device is a network infrastructure component configured for directing IP packets.

An embodiment of such a method comprises communicating instructions to a network the instructions indicating that IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded are to be directed to long term storage such that the network receives the instructions determines whether Internet Protocol IP packets which are being communicated by the network are associated with a communication that is to be recorded and directs information corresponding to the IP packets associated with the communication to a long term storage device.

A computer readable media having computer programs stored thereon also are provided. An embodiment of such a computer readable medium has computer program comprising computer executable instructions for performing the computer implemented steps of communicating instructions to a network the instructions indicating that IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded are to be directed to long term storage such that the network receives the instructions determines whether Internet Protocol IP packets which are being communicated by the network are associated with the communication and directs the IP packets associated with the communication to a long term storage device.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

As will be described here with reference to several exemplary embodiments systems and methods for providing recording as a network service are provided. In this regard some embodiments of such a system involve the use of switching devices e.g. network switches network routers and or other components that form the infrastructure of many communication networks such as the World Wide Web. Specifically in these embodiments the switching devices themselves are capable of performing various functionality that conventionally is provided by recorders which typically tap into a network e.g. at a switching device in order to record communications.

Referring now in detail to the drawings is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a system for providing recording as a network service. As shown in system incorporates communications networks and . Each of these networks can be any or a combination of network types WAN LAN the Internet for providing Internet Protocol IP communications.

Communicating with each of networks and is a network switching device that can be used for directing IP packets such as directing IP packets between the networks. For instance the network switching device can be a network switch which directs IP packets based on the ports of the switch that receive the packets or a network router which directs IP packets based on header information contained in the packets.

Long term storage also communicates with the networks and thus with the switching device . By way of example long term storage can be a storage area network SAN or network attached storage NAS . Long term storage receives IP packets such as IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded and stores information corresponding to the IP packets so that the recorded communications can be replayed. By way of example in some embodiments in which the communications involve voice communications received IP packets could be converted to audio files for storage or the IP packets themselves could be stored. Notably various other types of communications could be involved such as email chat and or corresponding screens of data that are displayed during such communications. Clearly the switching device could forward raw IP packets or re ordered IP packets i.e. IP packets arranged for conversion to a file type such as an audio file .

In determining whether IP packets are associated with a communication that is to be recorded various techniques can be used. By way of example embodiments of such a system can incorporate one or more of receiving filtering analyzing and storing of the IP packets. In this regard it should be noted that an IP packet which can be of various IP versions e.g. IPv4 Ipv6 incorporates three basic elements i.e. a header a data area and a trailer. The header designates the beginning of the packet the data area includes the data payload and the trailer designates the end of the packet.

In some embodiments the determining step mentioned above can include analyzing of one or more of the three basic elements of the IP packets received by the system. By way of example some embodiments can operate in a promiscuous mode in which each packet received is read in its entirety. Thus in some embodiments the device s of the system associated with performing the determining step can capture and save the packets for analysis.

Additionally or alternatively such a system can operate in monitor mode in which the device s of the system associated with performing the determining step wirelessly receive the packets and then act on the packets in a manner similar to the promiscuous mode.

Additionally or alternatively such a system can operate in non promiscuous or normal mode in which the device s of the system associated with performing the determining step check the address of the packet and merely forward the packet to a next device if the packet is not of interest. Thus these embodiments perform a type of filtering.

Referring back to regardless of the manner in which the IP packets for recording are determined in block the switching device is used to direct the IP packets associated with the communication to a long term storage device that is connected to the network. By way of example long term storage can be such a device.

In block the instructions are received at the switching device. In block a determination is made as to whether Internet Protocol IP packets which are being communicated by the switching device are associated with a communication that is to be recorded. Notably the particular communication and or the criteria for determining whether the communication is to be recorded are contained in the instructions. In block the switching device is used to direct the IP packets associated with the communication to long term storage.

In contrast to conventional methods of recording that use dedicated recorders for tapping communications using a switching device potentially reduces the latency associated with buffering IP packets in such a recorder prior to the recorder directing the captured data to long term storage. That is in some embodiments a switching device may not perform a buffering function at all instead directing IP packets associated with communications that are to be recorded directly to a network connected long term storage device without first buffering the packets. In other embodiments however some form of buffering could be provided by the switching device depending upon its particular configuration.

Additionally by streaming information for recording directly to network attached storage optimal usage of hard disks may be achieved. This is because hard disks used for storage typically are sized for expected load even though such load is difficult to predict. By sharing the hard disks attached to the network the potential of a single hard disk being over used is diminished.

It should be noted that in contrast to the embodiment described above with respect to some embodiments may be provided with instructions for controlling recording by methods other than network broadcast instructions. For instance the instructions could be directly provided to a switching device and or provided to the switching device prior to interconnecting the switching device with the network.

Communicating with each of networks and is a network switching device that can be used for directing IP packets. Long term storage communicates with the networks and thus with the switching device . Long term storage receives IP packets such as IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded and stores information corresponding to the IP packets so that the recorded communications can be replayed. In some embodiments such information could include an identification of the source e.g. source address an identification of the destination e.g. destination address identification of an agent that is a party to the communication machine name and or called phone number for example.

As shown in recording controller also is provided. In this embodiment the recording controller coordinates activity with the switching device to ensure that the desired communications are recorded. In particular the recording controller can provide instructions to the switching device so that the communications to be recorded can be identified. This can be accomplished by a user interacting with a user interface of the recording controller. Such a user interface enables a user to provide input regarding criteria used for determining whether communications are to be recorded. The recording controller then converts the input into instructions that can be provided to the switching device by broadcast for example.

Additionally or alternatively duplicate recording of information can potentially be avoided. In some embodiments this can be accomplished by permitting the storage devices to communicate with each other regarding recording activity. This could be facilitated via a network protocol. In other embodiments a recording controller could be used to track the recording activity of the recording devices and to direct the recording activity. By way of example the recording controller could inform the network about the recording device s that should be used for recording.

The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory . In this regard the processor can be a custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the recorder a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The memory can include one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor. Additionally the memory can include an operating system as well as instructions associated with a recording controller .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The operating system can be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input communication control file and data management memory management and communication control and or related services.

It should be noted that a system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system.

When the computer is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the recorder pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processor perhaps buffered and is then executed. In this regard when executing instructions associated with the recording controller the exemplary functionality described above with respect to recording controllers may be performed.

Communicating with each of networks and is a network switching device that can be used for directing IP packets. Long term storage communicates with the networks and thus with the switching device . Long term storage receives IP packets such as IP packets associated with a communication that is to be recorded and stores information corresponding to the IP packets so that the recorded communications can be replayed. Notably the IP packets received can be copies or some other interpretation of the original IP packets thereby ensuring that the original packets continue to be routed as desired.

As shown in a recorder also is provided. In this embodiment the recorder coordinates activity with the switching device to ensure that the desired communications are recorded. In particular the recorder can provide one or more of the following functions instructing the switching device about the communications that are to be recorded identifying which of the IP packets of the switching device are to be directed for recording and directing identified IP packets to long term storage.

In some embodiments the recorder determines which of the IP packets are to be recorded based on the tapping of the switching device and then directs the switching device to direct those packets for long term storage. In other embodiments responsive to determining which of the IP packets are to be recorded based on the tapping of the switching device the recorder transmits those packets back to the switching device so that those packets can be directed by the switching device to long term storage.

In such an embodiment the recorder is somewhat similar to a conventional recorder in that the recorder taps communications. However unlike a conventional recorder the recorder of may not be implemented with an ability to store IP packets locally for the purpose of manipulating e.g. re ordering the packets. That is in contrast to conventional recorders that buffer IP packets prior to directing those packets to a long term storage device so that the packets can be re ordered some embodiments of the recorder selectively direct IP packets to long term storage by re transmitting the packets to the switching device without re ordering those packets into a segment of a communication. In other embodiments however the IP packets can be held in memory e.g. volatile memory while some form of ordering and or interpretation of the information contained in the IP packets takes place.

It should be noted that any of the executable instructions such as those depicted functionally in the accompanying flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured media.

It should also be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations that may be configured using software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order depicted. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

