---

title: Event detection and response using rich network content
abstract: A server device may receive a notification indicating that an event has occurred, where the notification specifies an area associated with the event. The server device may further send a request for network content in response to the notification; receive the network content for each of a group of user devices, where the network content includes a location for each of the group of user devices and incident information for each of the group of user devices; generate geo fence information based on the area associated with the event, the geo fence information including boundaries for a geo fence that surrounds the location of the event; generate state information, associated with the geo fence, for a user device, of the group of user devices, located within the boundaries for the geo fence, where the state information includes the location for the user device; and send, to another server device, the state information for the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301765&OS=08301765&RS=08301765
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing, Inc.
number: 08301765
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100622
---
Circuit switched networks may provide a connection service that permitted user devices or network devices to communicate with each other by establishing a connection for the duration of the communication. When the communication was terminated the communication service ended and any residual information resident on the network on network devices or on user devices was usually lost or automatically discarded. By contrast today s packet switched networks provide a variety of services such as voice communications electronic mail instant messaging Internet based services security etc. Furthermore in today s networks when communications between user devices or network devices are terminated the residual information on the network on network devices or on user devices can often remain on the network or can be stored in the network devices or the user devices. Unfortunately despite the fact that the information on today s networks is not always lost or automatically discarded the information is not always used by the network the network devices or the user devices.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

An implementation described herein may include systems and or methods that provide for an implementation regarding event detection and response using rich network content hereinafter referred to as event detection and response . More particularly the event detection and response implementation may use an event detection and response application hereinafter referred to as an event application to obtain rich network content hereinafter referred to as network content from a network in order to detect whether a potential event has occurred and or to assist local state or federal authorities e.g. first responders etc. that are responding to a reported and or actual event. In one implementation the event application may use network content to identify acts or incidents associated with a user device to determine whether a potential event is detected. Additionally or alternatively the event application may generate a geographic fence to identify user devices that are located in the vicinity of and or potentially affected by the event and or to obtain network content to identify network conditions and or circumstances before during and or after an event. The event application may send the network content to authorities e.g. local state federal and or other authorities and or first responders e.g. police medical personnel firemen etc. to aid the authorities first responders in responding to the event. The event application may also send instructions and or information to a user device to aid a user of the user device if an event has occurred and or if a potential event has been detected.

The term event as described herein may include an accident e.g. a car accident a train accident etc. a natural disaster e.g. an earthquake a flood a weather event etc. a manmade disaster e.g. a bridge collapse a discharge of a hazardous material an explosion etc. a security event e.g. a terrorist attack an act of war etc. and or any other event that may trigger a response from authorities and or first responders and or may trigger a notification to a large quantity e.g. greater than some threshold of user devices e.g. acts associated with a major sporting event or concert election day coordination traffic management due to road construction etc. .

Assume that there has been an explosion at a factory e.g. shown as Event Location Factory in . Assume further that cells . . . L hereinafter collectively referred to as cells and individually as a cell are located in the vicinity of the factory and that some or all of the user devices communicate with a network via the cells. The application server may host an event application that may receive network content information from the user devices and from other sources.

An operation to detect a potential event may be performed. For example the event application may process the network content information to detect a potential event associated with the explosion at the factory and or to provide information associated with the event to a server device associated with authorities. In one implementation the event application may for example detect a series of 911 calls from one or more user devices. In another example the event application may detect a 911 call originating from a particular geographic location at or near the factory e.g. from user device and or user device as shown in . In yet another example the event application may detect a rapid change in user device activity level e.g. above or below a particular activity level threshold from the particular geographic location and or from a particular cell e.g. cell or set of cells e.g. cell cell cell etc. that intersects the particular geographic location of the factory. In still another example the event application may detect a rapid increase in temperature e.g. greater than a threshold originating from a thermostat and or another device that is capable of transmitting a signal containing temperature information associated with the factory. In yet another example the event application may detect an increase in power consumption e.g. greater than another threshold from a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system located within the factory that are capable of transmitting a signal indicating power consumption. The event application may detect the potential event and may report the potential event to authorities e.g. local state and or federal authorities .

An operation to generate a geographic fence hereinafter referred to as a geo fence may be triggered when an event occurs. For example the event application may receive an alert and or a notification e.g. a notification from a 911 dispatcher messages received from users of user devices a particular quantity or type of 911 call s an Amber alert a weather bulletin etc. indicating that an event or series of events have been reported and or have occurred. In another example the event application may receive information that an event has occurred based on the detection of a potential event as described above.

The event application may use information associated with the type and or characteristics of the event to generate the geo fence or series of geo fences associated with the notification and or the alert. For example the parameters of the geo fence may be set based on the type of event e.g. a one car accident severe flood etc. the quantity of user devices affected by the event the location of affected user devices e.g. on a highway in a building on a river etc. whether multiple events are involved and or the proximity of the multiple events the location of the event e.g. urban suburban rural the proximity of first responders to match parameters associated with the notification e.g. a weather advisory for a defined region etc.

In the present case and as illustrated in the event application may generate geo fence ABCD in response to the notification regarding the factory explosion and may establish parameters associated with geo fence ABCD based on the quantity of user devices in close proximity of the event location e.g. user device and the cells involved cells the location of the user devices the event s proximity to roads bridges population centers etc. .

An operation to obtain network information associated with the event and within the parameters of the geo fence may be performed. For example the event application may obtain network content information associated with the geo fence and may use the network content to identify acts incidents and or circumstances associated with user devices located within the boundaries of the geo fence. The event application may send the network content associated with the geo fence and or information associated with the identified acts incidents and or circumstances to a server device associated authorities first responders etc. In another example the event application may retrieve network content information from a prior point in time e.g. before the geo fence was generated and or prior to a point in time when the event occurred and or may process the retrieved network content using the geo fence to identify acts incidents and or circumstances associated with user devices located within the boundaries of the geo fence at the prior point in time. The event application may send the processed network content information and or the identified acts incidents and or circumstances to the server device associated with authorities first responders etc.

Authorities and or first responders may use information received from the event application to investigate and or respond to a potential event and or an actual or reported event. For example the event application may send information regarding an act and incident and or circumstances and or a series of acts incidents and or circumstances associated with a potential event to authorities and or first responders. In one example the event application may detect an incident associated with a user device or set of user devices that were potentially involved in or affected by an automobile accident and my send information associated the user device or set of user devices e.g. location information quantity of user devices etc. to authorities and or first responders. The authorities and or first responders may use the information associated with the user device or set of user devices to investigate whether an actual event e.g. an actual car accident has occurred at or near the location identified in the location information. In another example the event application may send information associated with user devices located within a geo fence established in response to a reported event to first responders. In this example the event application may send to authorities and or first responders location information associated with user devices located within a factory before and after a point in time that an explosion occurred at the factory to assist the authorities and or first responders in determine a quantity of users e.g. users of user devices that potentially evacuated the factory and or another quantity of users that may still be within the factory. In yet another example the event application may send information and or instructions to user devices that may be located within the geo fence and or may be affected by an event that may assist the users of the user devices to avoid and or evacuate the area where the event occurred.

Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of network may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of network . For example location proxy server service gateway server and or application server may be integrated into a single device. Devices of network may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

User device may include any computation or communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating via network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a personal computer a landline telephone a STB a television a camera a personal gaming system or another type of computation or communication device such as a 4G device e.g. a thermostat an appliance a sensor an HVAC device and or some other 4G device that is capable of communicating with location proxy server service gateway server and or application server .

User device may be associated with unique user device identification information that enables location proxy server service gateway server and or application server to distinguish user device from other user devices . The user device identification information may include for example a private identifier e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI a national access identifier NAI etc. a public identifier e.g. a mobile device number MDN landline device number LDN mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN etc. an Internet protocol IP address etc.

User device may communicate with location proxy server via short messaging protocols e.g. SMS IP protocols e.g. TCP IP IPv4 IPv6 etc. and or other protocols. In one implementation user device may include a global positioning satellite GPS component that includes a GPS receiver that permits user device to receive GPS signals e.g. from an orbiting GPS satellite constellation and to use the GPS signals to generate location information e.g. latitude longitude elevation speed direction etc. that is geographically relative to the surface of the earth e.g. geo location . In another implementation user device may generate geo location information using a component other than a GPS component. In yet another implementation user device may include a component e.g. an accelerometer compass and or some other component that may generate a signal that includes information associated with the manner in which user device is moving e.g. in a straight line at constant speed changing in speed and or changing direction . For example the component may generate a signal that indicates whether a user device is rapidly accelerating e.g. changing in speed or direction that exceeds some threshold .

User device may store information in a memory associated with user device may periodically send and or stream information to another network device e.g. location proxy server service gateway server etc. and or may send the information to the other network device in response to a query e.g. from location proxy server service gateway server etc. .

The description to follow will generally refer to user device as a wireless mobile communication device. The description is not limited however to a wireless mobile communication device and may equally apply to other types of user devices.

Location proxy server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. For example location proxy server may store functional components such as application programming interfaces APIs in a memory e.g. a memory associated with location proxy server that enable location proxy server to communicate with different types of user devices different versions of a particular type of user device and or user devices that use different protocols with which to communicate. Location proxy server may include a privacy engine that governs access to and or use of some or all information associated with user device such as presence information location information call browser email text history information associated with applications e.g. calendars address books email etc. based on permissions and or preferences specified by a user of user device . Location proxy server may use the APIs to communicate with user devices to obtain presence information location information and or other information associated with user devices . In one implementation the location information may include coordinates e.g. latitude and or longitude elevation information e.g. distance above sea level speed heading acceleration etc. In another implementation location proxy server may receive coordinates associate with user device and may compute speed acceleration heading etc. using coordinates obtained over a particular period of time. Location proxy server may use the APIs to convert the presence information and or location information obtained from user device to a particular protocol e.g. a mobile location protocol MLP and may send the obtained information to service gateway server . Location proxy server may use information associated with user device capabilities and or configurations to configure and or format information sent to user device e.g. evacuation instructions for users located within a factory in which an event has occurred traffic information warnings streaming media etc. in a manner that enables user device to receive and or process the received information.

Web server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. For example web server may host a website that permits access to a particular service application and or information that may be used to detect an event respond to an event or perform an operation associated with detecting and or responding to an event. For example web server may provide mapping information and or geographical information associated with a particular region within which a potential event has been detected and or an event has occurred. In another example web server may provide information associated with weather alerts weather forecasts weather radar information etc. In still another example web server may provide information e.g. images streaming media etc. from new sources news wires etc. associated with a particular event. In yet another example web server may provide information associated with user device capabilities and or configurations as a function of the type of user device e.g. cellular telephone PDA laptop computer etc. and or model version of a particular type of user device e.g. a particular model and or version of PDA such as a Palm Treo 755 Apple iPhone etc. . The information associated with user device capabilities and or configurations may permit information and or data associated with an event that is sent to a user device to be configured in a manner that enables user device to receive and process the received information e.g. instructions traffic information evacuation routes warnings alerts streaming media etc. .

Public server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. For example public server may host a website and or provide a service that permits access to publicly available information applications and or data such as from a local a state and or a federal agency e.g. local or state police the Federal Bureau of Investigation the United States Department of Homeland Security etc. that may be used by the event application to identify whether an event has occurred and or to trigger an operation to generate a geo fence to obtain event specific network content information etc. Public server may provide access to information associated with 911 dispatches Amber alerts weather alerts civil defense alerts etc.

Service gateway server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. For example service gateway server may include a server device that stores in a memory associated with service gateway server a group of service specific functional components e.g. service specific APIs that enable service gateway server to communicate with different components of network such as location proxy server web server public server and or application server using a variety of protocols. In another example service gateway server may communicate with other service gateway servers associated with other networks e.g. networks other than network .

Service gateway server may communicate with other network devices for example by performing queries to obtain information. In another example service gateway server may subscribe to a service associated with another network device which may permit service gateway server to receive information periodically and or upon the occurrence of some event from the other network device e.g. notifications when an event has occurred etc. . In yet another example service gateway server may subscribe to a service that provides streaming media e.g. text video voice data etc. . In still another example service gateway server may receive information from another network device when the other network device sends e.g. pushes information to service gateway server .

Service gateway server may use a particular API to communicate with location proxy server using a particular protocol e.g. MLP and or other protocols to receive location information presence information user device identification information etc. For example service gateway server may use one or more other APIs to communicate with web server and or public server to access services applications and or information that may be used to detect an event respond to an event and or perform an operation associated with detecting and or responding to the event. Service gateway server may convert the information obtained using the service specific APIs from location proxy server web server and or public server to normalized network content based on a set of normalized protocols e.g. for handling messaging location information user device identification information presence information multimedia messaging device capabilities information streaming media geographic data etc. . Service gateway server may send the normalized network content using the set of normalized protocols to application server .

Application server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner similar to that described herein. For example application server may include a server device that hosts an event application that performs operations associated with detecting potential events and or responding to events. Application server may receive normalized network content that was sent from service gateway server periodically upon the occurrence of some event and or in response to a query sent by application server . Application server may process the received normalized network content using a set of normalized functional components e.g. normalized APIs stored in a memory associated with application server e.g. Parlay X numerous APIs JAVA APIs OpenGL graphics OpenAL sound OpenCL computing Web API etc. and or other types of APIs to process the normalized network content e.g. to create network content information . Application server may use the network content information to perform operations associated with detecting potential events and or responding to potential events. From the network content information application server may generate state information and may use the state information to determine whether a potential event can be detected. In another implementation application server may upon the occurrence of some event e.g. a notification that an event has occurred use the network content information to generate a geo fence from which event specific device state information and or network state information may be generated.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network the Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and or a 2G a 3G 4G 5G and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network e.g. a fiber optic service FiOS network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

Although not shown in network may include a variety of other devices such as an authentication server a self provisioning server etc. Each of these devices may perform certain functions described briefly below. Any of these functions may be performed by location proxy server service gateway server and or application server . Thus one or more of these devices may be integrated into location proxy server service gateway server and or application server .

The authentication server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that authenticates user device . For example the authentication server may receive a request to authenticate user device based on information associated with a user of user device e.g. username password email address PIN etc. and or information associated with user device e.g. an identifier associated with user device .

The self provisioning server may include one or more server devices or other types of computation or communication devices that enable the registration of user device . The self provisioning server may receive identification information from user device and or location proxy server . The self provisioning server may facilitate sending address information associated with location proxy server service gateway server and or application server to user device and or may forward user device identification information associated with user device to location proxy server service gateway server and or application server .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to the event detection and response. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device. A logical memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Location API may convert location information from a particular service specific protocol e.g. a location information protocol used by a particular user device to a normalized location information protocol that permits application server with the permission of a user of user device and using a normalized location API to process the location information for the event application. GEO API may convert geographical information e.g. geographical information system GIS data mapping information digital terrain data etc. from a particular service specific protocol e.g. a geo information protocol used by a particular web server and or public server to a normalized geo information protocol that permits application server using a normalized GEO API to process the geo information. Presence API may convert presence information received from user device and or from location proxy server to a normalized presence information protocol that permits application server using a normalized presence API to process the presence information.

UD API may convert user device capability and or configuration information e.g. a user device with a particular model type version etc. received from a particular user device and or location proxy server to a normalized user device configuration protocol that can be used by application server . Content API may with the permission of a user of user device and or as permitted by applicable laws permit network content such as message content video content image content audio voice content call content browsing content and or other network content to be uploaded to the network so that an operation may be performed on the uploaded network content. The operation on the uploaded network content may include for example distributing streaming media associated with an event e.g. video audio text images etc. detecting particular content signatures associated with an event such as key words key faces e.g. using facial recognition to identify a missing person a fugitive etc. key sounds e.g. using audio signatures to detect an explosion a particular voice a gunshot etc. key locations e.g. using visual signatures to identify a location associated with an event etc. and or other operations. Additionally or alternatively content API may permit third party content to be downloaded e.g. received from a third party content provider such as web server and or public server and or stored by service gateway server for use by application server . History API may with the permission of a user permit call history information and or history information associated with text messaging Internet browsing history etc. associated with a particular user device to be uploaded to be stored by service gateway server and or to be converted to a normalized call history protocol that can be used by application server . 911 API may permit 911 dispatch information associated with a particular public server to be uploaded to be stored by service gateway server and or to be converted to a normalized 911 protocol that can be used by application server . Alerts API may permit certain alert information e.g. civil defense alerts Amber alerts tornado warnings storm warnings flash flood warnings hurricane warnings hazardous material discharge warnings etc. associated with web server and or public server to be received to be stored by service gateway server and or to be converted to a normalized alert protocol that can be used by application server .

Other network content may be received from other network devices. For example service gateway server may receive other network content e.g. call content information geo information user device capability information call history information etc. that is sent from other network devices e.g. web servers public servers etc. periodically upon the occurrence of some event and or in response to a query via one or more APIs described above in . The network content may be transmitted using a variety of service specific protocols . Service gateway server may receive the network content and may process the network content using APIs in a manner similar to that described above with respect to . Service gateway server may send the processed network content as normalized network content to application server using normalized protocols as described above with respect to . It should be understood as described above that some network content information such as call content information history information may be received processed and or transmitted with the permission of a user of user device and or as authorized under local state and or federal law.

Normalized network content may be received may be processed and may be used to generate state information. For example application server may receive the normalized network content and may use normalized API to generate network content information for use by event application . In this example API may include an API or set of APIs e.g. Parlay X JAVA APIs OpenGL graphics OpenAL sound OpenCL computing Web API etc. that can process the normalized network content into network content information that event application can use to generate state information such as user device state information and or network state information. Event application may use the state information to perform operations associated with detecting potential events creating a logical geo fence and or responding to reported and or actual events.

Process of may include receiving normalized network content and processing the normalized network content block . For example service gateway server may receive network content transmitted by other network devices e.g. location proxy server web server public server etc. . The network content may include presence information location information call content information geographic information and or mapping information user device capabilities information call history information 911 information and or information associated with other alerts or notifications. Service gateway server may process the network content using a set of service specific APIs e.g. APIs of stored in a memory associated with service gateway server and may send normalized network content to application server . Application server may receive the normalized network content and may process the normalized network content using a normalized set of APIs e.g. normalized API of to create network content information for use by event application in a manner similar to that described above with respect to .

Process may also include generating user device state information and identifying incidents block . For example event application may generate user device state information e.g. user device state information table of using the network content information received from service gateway server . For example as illustrated in user device state information table may include an active user device identifier field IDs a user device type field a grid location field a network region field a velocity field an activity field an incident flag field and or a time field . While illustrates user device state information table that includes certain fields such as fields in another implementation a user device state information table may include fewer fields additional fields different fields or differently arranged fields than are described with respect to .

Active user device IDs field may store user device identification information for a particular user device that is powered up and able to communicate with network e.g. an active user device . User device type field may store information associated with a type and or version of the particular user device e.g. cell phone a PDA a laptop computer a landline etc. . Grid location field may store location information associated with the particular user device e.g. latitude and or longitude X and or Y coordinates on a grid and or geo fence altitude and or elevation a street address a location marker on a highway or train track a particular cell etc. . Network region field may store information identifying a particular cell and or network access point via which the particular user device can communicate with network .

Velocity field may store information associated with the relative motion of the particular user device such as rate of speed e.g. in miles per hour mph kilometers per hour kph etc. a rate of change in speed e.g. acceleration in feet per second per second ft s meters per second per second m s etc. a direction or heading e.g. a compass heading a rate of change in heading e.g. angular velocity in degrees per second deg s etc. and or rate of change of direction e.g. angular acceleration degrees per second per second deg s . It should be understood that derived location information e.g. speed acceleration angular velocity angular acceleration etc. may be received as location information from service gateway server and or may be a computed by event application based on a change in grid location as a function of time. Activity field may store information associated with the type of communication that the particular user device is engaged e.g. no activity a call a text message an Internet session etc. . Incident flag field may store information that indicates whether a particular act has occurred that may trigger a potential event such as a 911 call originating from the particular user device a speed that is greater than a speed threshold a rate of change in speed or direction e.g. an acceleration that is greater than an acceleration threshold e.g. which may indicate that an impact and or collision associated with the particular user device has occurred and or some other act has occurred . In one implementation event application may store a value of 0 in incident flag field to indicate that an incident associated with the particular user device has not been detected and a value of 1 in incident flag field to indicate that an incident associated with user device has been detected. Time field may store information associated with the particular point in time at which the user device state information associated with the particular user device is obtained e.g. in hours hh minutes mm seconds ss or another format .

As an example and as shown by ellipse a particular user device may be a PDA of a particular type and or version e.g. PDA 4 may include a particular user device identifier e.g. IMSI 103545687 and or may be located at a particular grid location 4.234 A.623 . Additionally or alternatively the particular user device may be associated with a particular cell e.g. cell may be traveling at a particular velocity e.g. 57 mph north northeast and or may be communicating with the network e.g. text messaging at a particular point in time e.g. 15 35 05 . In this example incident flag field may store a value of 0 indicating that an incident associated the particular user device has not been detected.

In another example as shown by ellipse incident flag field may store a value of 1 indicating that an incident associated with another user device e.g. a mobile telephone with an MDN 8435551111 has been detected. In this example event application may set incident flag to indicate the occurrence of an incident associated with the other user device in response to detecting an act such as a 911 call originating from the other user device a potential accident due to an excessive velocity e.g. a velocity that is greater than a particular threshold an abrupt change in speed and or direction e.g. greater than a particular threshold and or other acts. Event application may compare a quantity of incidents associated with values stored in one or more entries of field to an incident quantity threshold and based on the comparison may determine whether there is a potential event with respect to user device .

Returning to process may include generating network state information and performing an operation to detect a potential event block . For example event application may use the network content information and or user device state information to generate network state information e.g. network state information table of for each cell and or region within a network e.g. network and or a particular cell and or a particular region of the network. As illustrated in network information table may store a network region field a user device type field an active user device quantity field an activity level field a relative flux field an incident quantity field a time field and or an event indicator field . While illustrates a network state information table that includes certain fields such as fields in another implementation a network state information table may include fewer fields additional fields different fields or differently arranged fields than are described with respect to .

Network region field may store information identifying a particular cell and or network access point within a network e.g. network via which a quantity of active user devices can communicate. User device type field may store information associated with a particular type of user device associated with the particular cell identified in field . For example a particular row of user device type field may store information identifying a particular type of user device e.g. a PDA a particular model of the particular type of user device e.g. a PDA such as a Palm Treo and or a particular version of the particular model e.g. Palm Treo 600 associated with a particular active user device . Each row of user device type field may store information associated with a particular type model and or version of user device . Active user device quantity field may store information associated with a quantity of the particular type model and or version of user device that are communicating via the particular cell. For example event application may determine that there is a quantity of cellular phones powered up and able to communicate via a particular cell at a particular point in time. In another example event application may determine that there is a different quantity of PDAs powered up and able to communicate via the particular cell at the particular point in time. Each row of user device quantity field may store information associated with a quantity of a particular type model and or version of user device that is able to communicate via the particular cell at the particular point in time.

Activity level field may store information associated with the amount of communication that is occurring within the particular cell as a function of the quantity of the particular types of user devices within the particular cell. For example event application may determine that a high level of activity is occurring within the particular cell when a quantity of the particular type of user device that are communicating within network exceeds a particular threshold e.g. one of every two devices 50 . In another example event application may determine that a normal level of activity is occurring within the particular cell when the quantity of the particular type of user device that is communicating with network is less than or equal to the particular threshold and is greater than another threshold e.g. one of every four devices 25 . In yet another example event application may determine that a low level of activity is occurring within the particular cell when the quantity of the particular type of user device that is communicating with network is less than or equal to the other threshold.

Relative flux field may store information indicating whether a quantity of a particular type of user device located within the particular cell e.g. the cell identified in field is increasing is decreasing or is unchanged relative to a prior point in time. Incident quantity field may store information corresponding to a quantity of incidents associated with a particular type of user device and or the particular cell as described above with respect to . For example the event application may detect a quantity incidents associated with a 911 call excessive speed e.g. above a particular speed threshold sudden acceleration e.g. changes in speed and or direction that is greater than a particular threshold and or other incidents that correspond to a particular type of user device or a set of the particular type of user devices within the particular cell and may store a value associated with the quantity of incidents detected. In another example Time field may store information associated with the particular point in time at which the network state information is obtained e.g. in hours hh minutes mm seconds ss and or another format . Event indicator may store information associated with whether an event has been detected. In one implementation event application may set event indicator field e.g. may store a value of 1 in event indicator field if event application determines that an event is detected e.g. if the quantity of incidents is greater than a particular threshold and or the occurrence of some other act or incident . If event application determines that an event is not detected e.g. the quantity of incidents is equal to or below the particular threshold then event application may not set the event indicator e.g. may store a value of 0 in event indicator field .

As an example as shown by ellipse event application may determine that a particular cell e.g. cell may contain a particular type of user device e.g. a mobile telephone of a particular model and or version and that a quantity of the particular type of user device e.g. 3 456 are communicating via the particular cell at a particular point in time e.g. 15 35 00 . Event application may compare the quantity of the particular type of user device with an activity threshold s and based on the comparison may determine that a normal quantity e.g. greater than 25 and or less than or equal to 50 and or some other value s of the particular type of user device are communicating via the particular cell at a particular point in time e.g. 15 35 05 . In this example event application may determine that the quantity of mobile phones associated with cell may have increase by 10 relative to a quantity of mobile telephones associated with cell at a prior point in time and or at a previous point in time when the previous network state information was generated. Additionally or alternatively event application may not have detected any incidents and or events associated the particular type of user devices and may store a value of 0 in incident quantity field and or event indicator field respectively.

Event application may store total network state information. As an example as shown by ellipse event application may store network state information for each type of user device e.g. as shown by ellipses through that are associated with a particular cell e.g. cell at the particular point in time e.g. 15 35 05 . Event application may determine that a total quantity of user devices e.g. 14 139 may be associated with the particular cell e.g. powered up and or able to communicated via cell of which a particular quantity of user devices e.g. a normal quantity may be engaged in some form of activity via the particular cell e.g. text messaging calling browsing the internet etc. . Additionally or alternatively event application may determine that the quantity of active user devices associated with cell may have increase by 6 relative to a quantity of active user devices associated with cell at a prior point in time and or at a previous point in time when the previous network state information was generated.

Incident quantity field may store a value of 1 indicating that a single incident associated with a particular type of use device e.g. a PDA as shown by ellipse was detected by event application . Event application may compare the quantity of incidents with an incident threshold and may store a value of 0 in field when the total quantity of incidents are less than or equal to the incident threshold. It should be understood that the network state information table may include network state information associated with other network regions e.g. cells . . . L and or that total network state information may be generated for other cells a group of cells and or all cells associated with the network e.g. network .

In another example event application may generate and or store network state information based on a particular location. For example event application may generate network state information associated with a location and or an area that is determined to be particularly sensitive e.g. an airport an urban center a government building a nuclear power plant etc. at a frequency that is greater than another frequency at which network state information is generated with respect to an area that is not determined to be sensitive e.g. a rural area a wilderness area etc. . In another example event application may store e.g. cache network state information associated with a location and or an area that is determined e.g. by local state and or federal authorities and or a network administrator associated with network to be particularly sensitive for a particular period of time that is greater than another period of time for which network state information is stored with respect to an area that is not determined to be sensitive.

Returning to if a potential event is detected YES then a notification reporting the potential event may be sent and state information may be sent block . Event application may determine whether an event has been triggered in a number of ways using the user device state information and or the network device state information.

An operation may be performed to determine whether a potential event is detected based on the state information. For example event application may use the state information e.g. network state information table of to determine that a potential event exists. Event application may for example compare a quantity of incidents e.g. obtained from incident quantity field of corresponding to a cell a set of cells and or network with a particular incident threshold and based on the comparison may determine that a potential event exists when the quantity of incidents is greater than the particular incident threshold. Event application may set the event indicator by storing a value of 1 in event indicator field based on the determination that a potential event exists.

In another example event application may determine that a potential event has occurred if two or more identified incidents are co located e.g. are separated by a distance that is less than or equal to some threshold based on the location information obtained from the user device state information e.g. grid location field of . In yet another example event application may determine that a potential event exists if the quantity of incidents are detected within a period of time that is less than or equal to a time threshold based on time field .

In another example event application may determine that a potential event exists when the activity level e.g. obtained from activity level field of corresponding to a cell a set of cells and or network is greater than a high activity threshold. In this example event application may determine that a potential event exists based on a high activity level which may indicate that some event has occurred e.g. a major accident witnessed and or experienced by a number of users of user devices . In yet another example event application may determine that a potential event exists when the activity level e.g. obtained from activity level field of corresponding to a cell a set of cells and or network is less than or equal to a low activity threshold. In this example the low activity level may indicate the occurrence of some event that has disabled and or rendered inoperable a number of user devices and or cells via which the number of user devices communicate.

In still another example event application may determine that a potential event exists when the relative flux e.g. obtained from relative flux field of corresponding to a quantity of user devices that are entering or leaving a cell a set of cells and or network is greater than a particular flux threshold. In this example a high relative flux e.g. above the flux threshold may indicate that users of user devices are leaving and or evacuating an area at which a potential event is determined to exist e.g. due to a flash flood an explosion a train accident a hazardous material discharge etc. .

A notification indicating that a potential event has occurred may be sent. For example event application may determine that a potential event exists and may generate a notification to report the potential event. In one example event application may send the notification to a server device associated with local state and or federal authorities first responders e.g. law enforcement fire department medical personnel etc. and or another server device. The notification may include some or all of the state information e.g. user device state information and or network state information and or some or all of the network content information received from network .

In another example event application may generate a notification indicating that a potential event has been detected and may send the notification to user devices . For example information e.g. messages instructions notifications etc. may be outputted e.g. pushed to user devices based on state information and or network content information associated with the potential event. In this example event application may push particular information received from web servers such as alternative routes evacuation routes notifications e.g. election results breaking news etc. maps images live scene video streaming media etc. to each user device based on the type of user device to which the information is being pushed. In another example the event application may detect an increase in activity of a quantity of user devices located at a local stadium and may use information obtained from web server e.g. a score update a schedule associated with a local sports team an advertisement etc. to generate a notification. The event application may send the notification to other user devices indicating that a score has occurred advertising merchandise associated with the local sports franchise updating traffic patterns in the location of the stadium etc.

Additionally or alternatively event application use the presence information e.g. user device identification information and or information associated with the types models and or versions of user devices and or capabilities information associated with user devices to push information that has been configured to be received and or handled by each type model and or version of user device . Event application may at a later point in time receive other normalized network content and may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block process the other normalized network content to determine whether a potential event has occurred.

If a potential event is not detected NO then network presence information may be sent block . For example event application may determine that a potential event was not detected based on the state information. In this example event application may compare the quantity of incidents e.g. obtained from field of with a particular incidents threshold and may based on the comparison determine that the quantity of identified incidents does not exceed a particular threshold. In another example event application may not detect any co located incidents e.g. two or more incidents that are not separated by a distance that is less than some threshold . In yet another example event application may determine that a particular quantity of incidents are not detected within a period of time that is less than or equal to a time threshold.

In still another example event application may determine that a potential event has not occurred when the activity level is not greater than a high activity threshold and or is not less than or equal to a low activity threshold. In yet another example event application may determine that a potential event has not occurred when the relative flux is not greater than a particular flux threshold.

Event application may determine that a potential event has not been detected and may send some or all of the state information e.g. user device state information and or network state information to a server device associated with authorities e.g. local state and or federal authorities first responders e.g. police medical personnel firemen etc. and or another server device. Event application may at a later point in time receive other normalized network content and may in a manner similar to that described above with respect to block process the other normalized network content to determine whether a potential event has occurred.

Process of may include receiving a notification that an event has occurred and querying event specific API s in response to the notification block . For example service gateway server may receive a notification and or an alert that an event has been reported and or has occurred from a network device e.g. public server web server and or some other network device . Service gateway server may process the notification using a particular API e.g. 911 API and or alerts API of and may send the notification to application server . The notification information may include information associated with the type of event e.g. a car accident a train accident a weather incident a hazardous waste discharge a terrorist attack etc. the approximate location of the event e.g. latitude longitude a street address a grid location on a map etc. the approximate point in time that the event occurred or was reported information associated with an affected geographical area e.g. a storm warning for a particular geographical area a police perimeter a road closing evacuation routes boundaries coordinates etc. and or other information associated with the event. Application server may receive the notification and event application may use the notification to generate a query to retrieve event specific network content information in response to the notification. Event application may send the query to service gateway server requesting the event specific network content information other alert information from local state regional and or federal authorities e.g. via alerts API 911 dispatch information e.g. via 911 API and or other information potentially associated with the event. In another implementation event application may send the query to another network device e.g. web server public server etc. instead of or in addition to service gateway server and may receive information in response to the query directly from the other network devices instead of or in addition to service gateway server .

In another implementation event application may generate the query to receive the event specific network content information and may send the query to service gateway server or some other network device as a result of an operation to detect a potential event in a manner similar to that described above with respect to blocks of .

Process may also include receiving event specific network content information block . For example application server may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to block of receive normalized event specific network content and may process the normalized event specific network content to create event specific network content information.

Process may further include generating a geo fence based on a notification that an event has occurred block . For example event application may use the event specific network content information to generate a geo fence in response to the notification that an event has occurred and or based on the received event specific network content information. For example event application may use the location information and or information associated with the affected geographical area obtained from the notification to establish parameters with which to generate a logical geo fence using the geo information obtained from the event specific network content information. In this example if the notification includes a geographical area that is sufficiently defined e.g. such as an affected county or set of counties boundaries defined by latitude and longitude a particular coordinate for a center point and a radius etc. event application may generate the geo fence based on the defined geographical area. In another example event application may establish the parameters of a geo fence based on the quantity of events that are identified by the received notification and or a set of received notifications. In this example a single event may include a geo fence with parameters that are different than a geo fence associated with multiple events. In the latter case individual geo fences each associated with a single event may be combined to form a larger geo fence and or a geo fence with difference parameters.

In another implementation event application may establish parameters of a geo fence based on the type and or extent of an event. For example event application may establish the parameters of a geo fence based on estimates of a quantity of people e.g. a quantity of users of user devices directly involved in the event. In this example parameters for a geo fence for a one car accident e.g. a perimeter of 50 ft. 100 ft. 200 ft. etc. may be different than a geo fence for a multi car accident e.g. 200 ft. 300 ft. 500 ft. etc. . In another example event application may establish the parameters of a geo fence based on estimates of a quantity of people affected by the event. In this example a geo fence for a car accident on an urban street and or highway e.g. 200 ft. 300 ft. 500 ft. etc. may be different than a geo fence for a car accident on a rural road e.g. 50 ft. 100 ft. 200 ft. etc. . In yet another example a geo fence for an accident involving a truck that is hauling furniture 100 ft. 200 ft. 500 ft. etc. may be different than a geo fence for an accident involving a truck hauling hazardous materials e.g. 500 ft. 1000 ft. 2000 ft. etc. . In yet another example event application may establish parameters for a geo fence associated with a security event such as an event that involves the potential use of weapons of mass destruction e.g. conventional bombs using nuclear material chemical and or biological weapons etc. that may be different than a security event that involves weapons other than weapons of mass destruction.

Additionally or alternatively event application may establish parameters for a geo fence based on environmental factors. For example event application may establish the parameters of a geo fence based on the location of the event relative to the environment in which the event occurs such as urban versus rural land versus water good weather versus bad weather etc. Additionally or alternatively event application may use user device state information and or network state information described above with respect to blocks of to determine parameters for a geo fence. For example event application may obtain from user device state information location information associated with user devices from which 911 calls were placed that correspond to and or are in a particular proximity of the event location. Event application may for example use the location information to determine parameters of the geo fence. In another example event application may obtain from network state information information corresponding to cells with high incident quantities e.g. a quantity of incidents that event application determines are greater than a particular incident threshold and may determine some or all of the parameters of the geo fence based on the cells determined to have high incident quantities.

Process may also include generating event specific user device state information and event specific network state information block . For example event application may obtain location information associated with user devices from the received event specific network content information and may use the parameters of the geo fence e.g. boundary information coordinates perimeter specifications etc. to determine which user devices are located within the boundaries of the geo fence. In a manner similar to that described above with respect to block event application may generate event specific user device state information based on event specific network content information for user devices determined to be located within the geo fence boundaries. Additionally or alternatively event application may use the event specific user device information to identify any incidents e.g. 911 calls abrupt changes in speed and or direction excessive velocity etc. associated with user devices determined to be located within the geo fence.

In another example event application may use the received event specific network content information and or the event specific user device state information to generate event specific network state information e.g. event specific network state information table of associated with the geo fence. As illustrated in event specific network state information table may include a geo fence field a user device type field an active user device quantity field an activity level field a quantity in critical zone field a relative flux field an incident quantity field and or an event time field e.g. measured in hours hh minutes mm seconds ss or another format . While illustrates event specific network state information table including certain fields such as fields in another implementation event specific network state information table may include fewer fields additional fields different fields or differently arranged fields than are described with respect to .

Geo fence field may store geographic parameters associated with a geo fence generated by event application such as a set of coordinates e.g. latitudes and longitudes and or other coordinates that define the boundaries of the geo fence within which a quantity of active user devices are located. User device type field may store information associated with a particular type model and or version of user device as described above with respect to associated with the geo fence. Active user device quantity field may store information associated with a quantity of the particular type model and or version of user device as described above with respect to FIG. . that are located within the boundaries of the geo fence. Activity level may store information associated a relative quantity of activity e.g. a quantity of communication such as texting emailing calling Internet browsing etc. by user devices that is occurring within the geo fence as a function of the quantity of the particular types models and or versions of user devices within the geo fence. For example in a manner similar to that described above with respect to field event application may determine whether a high level a normal level or a low level of activity is occurring within the geo fence.

Quantity in critical zone field hereinafter referred to as critical zone field may store information associated with user devices of a particular type model and or version that are identified as being located within the boundaries of the geo fence and are further identified as being located within a critical zone corresponding to a particular location at which the event occurred e.g. ground zero . The critical zone may be defined e.g. by parameters such as boundaries a set of coordinates a perimeter and or other parameters as a distance from an area around ground zero and or within which a user e.g. a user of a user device is likely to have been directly affected by the event e.g. a user of a user device involved in a multi car accident displaced from a home due to a flood etc. . Relative flux field may store information that indicates whether the quantity of a particular type of user device is increasing is decreasing or is unchanged over some period of time. Incident quantity field may store information corresponding to a quantity of identified incidents for each type of user device associated with the quantity of user devices within the geo fence based on the event specific user device state information described above. Event time field may store a particular point in time obtained from the received notification at which the event occurred was detected and or was reported hereinafter referred to as the event time .

As an example and as shown by ellipse event application may determine that a geo fence e.g. ABCD as described in may contain a particular type of user device e.g. mobile telephones of a particular model and or version and a particular quantity of the particular type of user device e.g. 5 789 . Event application may in a manner similar to that described above e.g. with respect to block of determine that a high quantity of the particular type of user device are communicating e.g. greater than a high activity threshold such as 50 with network at a particular event time e.g. 15 35 05 . In this example event application may determine that a particular quantity e.g. 18 of the particular type of user device are located within a critical zone established by event application and or a network administrator. Additionally or alternatively event application may store a value of 0 in relative flux field for the first instance in which event application generates event specific network state information. At a future point in time however event application may compare the quantity of user devices of a particular type model and or version with a quantity of user devices of the particular type model and or version at a prior point in time to determine the relative flux associated with a particular type model and or version of user devices that are entering and or leaving the geo fence since the event time and or since the prior point in time. Event application may identify from the event specific user device state information a quantity of incidents e.g. 76 associated with a particular type of user device .

Event application may store total event specific network state information. For example as shown by ellipse event application may store event specific network state information for each type model and or version of user device e.g. as shown by ellipses through that is associated with the geo fence e.g. ABCD at the event time e.g. 15 35 05 . Event application may determine that a total quantity of user devices e.g. 20 170 may be located within the geo fence of which a particular quantity of user devices e.g. a high quantity based on a determination that the particular quantity is greater than a high activity level threshold may be engaged in some form of communication with the network e.g. text messaging making calls making 911 calls etc. . In this example event application may determine that a particular quantity e.g. 48 of user devices are located within a critical zone and or that a quantity of incidents e.g. 242 has been identified based on the event specific user device state information.

Process may further include retrieving state information from a prior point in time and processing retrieved state information with respect to the geo fence block . For example state information generated by event application at a prior point in time e.g. a point in time prior to the event time and or network content information received by event application at the prior point in time may be retrieved from a memory e.g. a memory associated with application server or some other memory . Event application may use the retrieved network content information and or the retrieved state information to generate event specific state information e.g. event specific user device state information and or event specific network state information associated with the geo fence at the prior point in time.

Event application may identify particular incidents that occurred at a point in time that is prior to the event time. For example an incident may be identified that involves a particular user device traveling within the geo fence and or within the critical zone at an excessive speed e.g. a speed that is greater than a particular threshold away from ground zero prior to the event time. In this example event application may retrieve call history information from service gateway server via a particular API e.g. history API of associated with the particular user device .

In another example event application may retrieve network content information associated with the particular user device from service gateway server via a particular API e.g. content API of . Event application may perform for example an operation on the network content e.g. call content text message content browser content email content etc. using content signatures to identify whether key words are contained in the network content that may cause event application to identify an incident. Event application may for example perform another operation on the network content e.g. image content video content voice content etc. using content signatures to identify a key face e.g. of a missing person of a person of interest etc. using facial recognition technology and or other technologies a key voice e.g. of a victim of a crime etc. using speech recognition technology and or other technologies etc. In yet another example the locations of particular user devices associated with particular users who may be affected by the event may be located prior to the event time. In still another example the activity level relative flux and or other information prior to the event time may be of interest to authorities to identify circumstances and or conditions leading up to the event.

Process may also include performing an operation to identify event specific trends based on event specific state information block . For example event application may use event specific state information associated with the geo fence generated with respect to a particular point in time e.g. a prior point in time and event specific state information associated with the geo fence generated with respect to another point in time e.g. the event time a point in time that is after the event time and or some other point in time to identify trends for a period of time prior to the event time and or for another period of time that occurs during and or after the event time. In this example event application may identify whether users of user devices determined to be inside of the geo fence are evacuating by determining the relative flux for a particular period of time. In another example the quantity of user devices in the critical zone prior to the event time and or immediately after the event time may be determined. In yet another example event application may determine changes in the activity level associated with user devices determined to be inside the geo fence over a particular period of time based on activity levels at a particular point in time e.g. prior to the event time and activity levels at a later point in time e.g. after the event time may .

Process may further include outputting information to user devices within the geo fence and sending event specific state information and trend information block . For example event application may output e.g. push information e.g. messages instructions notifications etc. to user devices based on notifications and or instructions received from authorities e.g. local state federal and or other authorities and or other sources e.g. from event specific state information third parties etc. . In one example event application may push particular information e.g. alternative routes evacuation routes maps images etc. to each user device based on the type of user device to which the information is being pushed. In this example event application may retrieve from a network device e.g. from service gateway server or some other network device user device capabilities information and or presence information associated with user devices that were determined to be within the boundaries of the geo fence. Event application may use the presence information to push information that has been configured to be received and handled by each type of user device .

Event specific state information and or trend information may be sent. For example event application may send event specific user device state information to a server device associated with authorities first responders and or other devices of network . Additionally or alternatively event application may send event specific network state information to a server device associated with authorities first responders and or other devices of network . In another example event application may send trend information to a server device associated with authorities first responders and or other devices of network . In this example event application may send trend information associated with circumstances that existed and or incidents that occurred prior to during and or after the event time.

If the event has not concluded block NO then other normalized content may be received block . For example event application may not have received a notification indicating that the event has concluded may continue to receive other network content information and or may continue to generate event specific state information with respect to the geo fence associated with the event.

If the event has concluded block YES then the geo fence may be removed information associated with the geo fence event specific state information and or trend information may be archived and process may end block . For example event application may receive a notification indicating that the event has been remedied and or has been otherwise concluded. Event application may based on the notification remove the geo fence and or may store in a memory e.g. a memory associated with the application server and or another memory information associated with the geo fence event specific state information and or trend information. Additionally or alternatively event application may store network content information in a memory and may send a notification to user devices that the event has concluded.

Implementations described herein may provide for event detection and response using network content. An event application may obtain network content from a network and may use the network content to detect a potential event such as an automobile accident 911 calls etc. The event application may send the network content and or information associated with detecting the potential event to authorities and or first responders e.g. potential event location user device locations etc. . The event application may send a notification to user devices associated with the potential events e.g. instruction to avoid a particular area an update on a local football score notifications regarding traffic conditions etc. . Additionally or alternatively the event application may generate a geographic fence to identify user devices that are located in the vicinity of and or are potentially affected by an event. The event application may for example use the geo fence to obtain network content to identify network conditions and or circumstances before during and or after the event. The event application may send the network content to authorities and or first responders who may use the information in their response.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the invention. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the invention includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

