---

title: Social network virtual private network
abstract: A system and method create an interconnection among users of different social networks. Each user can provide information about the social networks they use (e.g., username, passwords, etc.). An application may register with the social network and can inter-dispose the application between the user and the social network. Then, the system can interconnect the users into a “virtual private network” (VPN) where communications between the users and the social networks can be replicated to other social networks for the other users. As such, different users using different social networks can communicate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332476&OS=08332476&RS=08332476
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08332476
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100715
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 235 838 filed Aug. 21 2009 entitled MOJO which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Several social networks exist where people interact. However a single user may use only one social network or prefer only one social network. Two different users may use or prefer different social networks. As such using the social networks for communicating between two people can become untenable because the social networks do not interact. In other words a user on one social network may not be able to communication with another user using a second different social network.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. The embodiments presented herein create an interconnection among users of different social networks used by two or more users. Each user can provide information about the social networks they use e.g. username passwords etc. . An application may register with the social network and can inter dispose the application between the user and the social network. Then the system can interconnect the users into a virtual private network VPN where communications between the users and the social networks can be replicated to other social networks for the other users. As such different users using different social networks can communicate.

To accomplish the communications the system or application may include an intercept module that intercepts communications to and from the social network. The intercepted communications may be translated by a translation module. The translation can change the communication from a format for a first social network into a second format for another social network. The communications may then be formatted for the different social networks by a format module. Finally a present module can present the translated and formatted communications to the different social media network sites.

Thus if a user uses Facebook the user can post messages to his or her Facebook page. The system intercepts the posted message and replicates the message on a MySpace page for a second user. Likewise a second user may post a reply on the MySpace page that can be intercepted translated formatted and presented on Facebook for the first user. Thus the users can interact across different social media sites without needing to use a single site.

Alternative embodiments also can allow the VPN to control preferences or the functionality of the social media network site. In this way the VPN can push the users into a private chat area of the social network. Thus the VPN engine may allow the users to conduct private interactions also.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the embodiments are considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the embodiments are described in terms of examples it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the embodiments can be separately claimed.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

An embodiment of a system for creating a virtual private network VPN is shown in . A VPN can be any interconnection of two or more user computers two or more social media network sites and or a system for sharing content among the two or more social media network sites . The system includes one or more users operating one or more user computers and or . Embodiments of the system can include more or fewer user computers than those shown in as represented by the ellipses . A user computer can be any computing system as described in conjunction with and . The users interact with social media networks through the user computers .

The users may interact with social media such as social media network sites social media network site and or social media network site . Embodiments of the system may include more or fewer social media as represented by ellipses . A social media network site or social media may be any website or system for providing a means of interaction between two or more people. For example social media networks can include one or more of but are not limited to Facebook MySpace Spoke Plaxo LinkedIn etc.

Each user executing user computer may prefer one of the social media network sites . As such a first user using user computer may post content onto one of the social media networks for one or more other users. However one or more other users using a second user computer may prefer a different social media network site . When the first user wants to post content to their preferred social media network site the second user may not receive that content if they prefer or only use social media network site . Thus the system provides a VPN that can copy or share content among the different social media network sites . The VPN can be created by one or more applications that are executed on user computers on the social media network sites or possibly on a third computer system not shown .

An embodiment of a software system for creating the VPN is shown in . The software is shown as being executed on the user computer . However as noted above the software may in some embodiments be executed on the social media network sites or on a third computer system. Here each user computer may interface with a social media network site through a network . The network can be any network communication system protocol or other means of communicating as described in conjunction with and or . The user computer may also communicate with a communication server . The communication server can be any server or computer system as described in conjunction with and . The communication server may be operable to provide communication services to the user computer .

The user computer can execute one or more software components that can create the VPN. In embodiments the modules or software to create the VPN can include a social media gateway and a VPN engine . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the VPN engine is described in conjunction with .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA .

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for a user computer from a social media network site and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not apply directly to the user. As such the content filter can filter out or delete messages so that the messages are not received by social media network application programming interface API social media network API and or social media network API . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the VPN Engine . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the user or an administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or administrator of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks as some social media networks may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks. The filtering may include filters based on the poster of social media content keywords in the content or other information.

While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to the query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call. The social media network API can be an application that the social media network site and or provides to access the site. Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network site and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed. Examples include content of source address field destination or recipient address fields time stamp field subject matter field and message body field. For example searchable content is the name of the person for which a response may be sent.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network site and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network site and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network site and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can easily be expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple such social media networks 

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network site and or . In embodiments the social media network API may periodically search e.g. once an hour day week etc. active social media for messages and automatically receive messages from passive social media. The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network site and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the VPN Engine . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the VPN Engine and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network site and or

Messages to the user are addressed to the user. For example a person may become a friend of the user on a social media network site such as Facebook. The person may then address a message to the user on Facebook. This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the user but to the user s Facebook page. In other embodiments the VPN engine receives messages not addressed to the user. For example the user can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the user. The VPN engine may also search for messages or content on the social media network site and or . Exemplary search criteria include the user s name user s home address user s business address user s employer name user s educational or professional background user s hobby personal or business interests user s family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network site and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the VPN Engine . Thus the VPN Engine receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted. The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network site while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the VPN Engine .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the VPN Engine . Therefore the message aggregator can inter relate or combine messages based on different information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the VPN Engine . Thus the VPN Engine may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message can be sent from the social media gateway to the VPN Engine .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from the VPN Engine can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be in a general format and translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network site and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the VPN Engine may post the response directly to the social media network site and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

The response may be sent to two or more social media networks simultaneously to reach two or more users. Further the social media gateway may send a message to a particular social media network site based on the identity of the recipient. For example the recipient may be identified. From the identity the social media gateway may determine a social media network site used by the recipient. Then the social media gateway can send the response directly to the recipient s social media network site .

An embodiment of the VPN engine is shown in . The VPN engine is described as a software component or module but may be embodied in a logic circuit or other specially designed hardware that executes as part of the user computer . The VPN engine can include one or more sub modules for example the intercept module the translate module the format module and the present module . The VPN engine may also communicate with a user interface . The user interface can be any interface that a user interacts with to either receive information from the user computer or to input information into the user computer . The user interface may be as explained in conjunction with and .

An intercept module is operable to intercept content being provided to a social media site . In embodiments the intercept module intercepts input to the memory stack of the processor of the user computer if the input is associated with a posting to a social media site. For example if the input is a message to be sent to a web address associated with a social media network site the intercept module can read the input extract the input from the memory stack and operate on the input before the content is posted. The input can be a user interface input from user interface to the processor that includes content to be posted on a social media site . The intercept module can remove the input from the stack to be manipulated or changed.

In other embodiments the intercept module receives from the social media gateway the content to be posted to a social media site . As such the social media gateway sits or is inter disposed between the user computer and the social media networks . Any content going to or from a social media site can be intercepted by the social media gateway and presented to the intercept module . After intercepting the content the intercept module can provide the content to a translate module .

The translate module is operable to translate the content posted by the user from one form to another. A social media site may accept social media content in a certain language or protocol. This language may be translated by the translate module to be acceptable by another social media site . For example one social media network site may accept HTML content while a second social media network site may accept XML content. The translated module can translate the HTML code to XML. There are several other languages protocols or other content related information that can be changed by the translate module. For example the translate module is operable to change any of the metadata or parameters associated with the content that may be accepted by one or more social media networks .

The translated content may then be formatted by a format module . The format module is operable to change the style or form of the content into something acceptable by another social media network site . For example if a posting is a Facebook posting the form may be a simple comment in the user s Facebook page. However to place the content in YouTube the format of the posting may need to be changed to a comment on or a response to a video in YouTube. Thus the form may change to post the content to other social media networks. The format module formats this information to send to the present module to be presented in the social media network.

The present module is operable to present the social media content to one or more social media networks . For example if the user posts content to social media network site the present module may present the content to social media networks and . To present the information to the other social media networks the present module may access user data in a user database that allows the present module to login or assume the identity of the user on the other social media network sites . Thus by assuming the identity of the user the present module may post content amongst several different social media networks.

In other embodiments the content may be directed to a certain user. The user posting the content may not have an account with the social media network upon which the present module needs to present the content. However the present module may present the content on the other social media network site in the page or as sent directly to the person that is to receive the content. For example the user may post a comment to another user in a Facebook page. The present module may wish to post the content into a MySpace page. However the user that posted content may not have a MySpace account. However the present module may present the content to the other user in the other user s page by posting the content directly without logging in as the user. In some embodiments the present module may also present content to the user interface . Thus if content is received from the social media gateway is some form that is not easily presented the present module may present the information directly to a user s user interface possibly as a pop up window or other display. The present module may provide the content to the social media gateway which may then post the content to the different social media networks .

By posting content from one social media network site to other social media networks and or the VPN engine can create a VPN where each user may interact with each other using their own preferred social media site . In some embodiments the VPN engine may organize the users into VPN by obtaining data for each of the one or more users and storing it in a user database . When a user posts comment to any one of those users within the created VPN group the VPN engine may post the content to all the users in the VPN group. In embodiments the user may select when to post information to the VPN group or to post information to a subset of all the members of the VPN group. An identifier for the VPN group may be created and associated with all members of the VPN group. As such the user can post content to the VPN group using the identifier to automatically post the content to all members of the VPN group.

An embodiment of a method for creating a VPN among users using different social media sites is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method is shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules data structures user interfaces etc. described in conjunction with .

The user computer receives a communication to or from a social media network site in step . A user may post a communication to a social media network site in user computer . By providing the information to the user interface the user can post content to a social media network site . The social media gateway can intercept this communication to the social media network and provide that communication to the VPN engine . In other embodiments the communication to one social media network site from another user computer can be read or retrieved by social media gateway and provided to the VPN engine .

The VPN engine can translate the communication to or from the social media network site in step . The intercept module may receive the communication from the social media gateway and can provide the communication to a translate module . The translate module can then translate the form of the content from that in which it was posted to other forms used by other social media network sites . For example if the posting is to Facebook in social media site the translate module may translate the content into a language or protocol used by MySpace which may be social media network site . After translating the content the translate module may send the content to a format module which can change the format of the content to adhere to the format used by a second social media network site

The translated and formatted content is received by the present module which can post the communication on two or more social media network sites in the format used by the social media network sites in step . Here the present module can present the content on a first social media network site and a second social media network site . In embodiments the present module sends two or more content postings to the social media gateway to present the information through the social media gateway to the social media networks . Thus the first posting is made for social media network site used by the user in step . Then the social media gateway may post the communication on other social media network site or in step .

An embodiment of a method for making the social media network VPN private is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method is shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules data structures user interfaces etc. described in conjunction with . It should be noted that most social media network sites post information publicly so that the postings are available to more than one user. However many of these social media networks provide a private messaging function that can allow two users to communicate privately. Thus any social media posting only goes to one user.

The social network VPN engine determines whether a conversation is private in step . A conversation is a posting of two or more messages from two or more users. The conversation may be private if only those two or more users are involved in the conversation and no posting is made public. It should be noted that a private conversation may be conducted among any number of users and contain any number of postings. A user may mark a single conversation private or mark a VPN group as private. In either case the VPN engine can store an identifier with the conversation thread or with the VPN group designating the conversation or group as private. The privacy identifier may then be retrieved later to determine if a conversation is private. If a conversation is deemed private step proceeds YES to step . If the conversation is deemed not private step proceeds NO to end operation .

The VPN engine may then determine whether the social media network site is involved in the private conversation and or has a private message function in step . The VPN engine can investigate the abilities of the social media network site through the social media gateway or in embodiments the VPN engine accesses the social media parameters database to determine the functionality of the social media network site . If the social media network site includes a private message function step proceeds YES to step . If the social media site does not include a private message function step proceeds NO to step .

In step the VPN engine accesses the private message function . In embodiments the VPN engine can access user database to log on and set parameters for the user automatically. Thus the content that was to be posted can be changed to a private message to the other user to which the content is directed. After these settings are established to create a private message the VPN engine can post the private message in step . As with public messages the VPN engine can post the private message to the social media gateway .

When there is no private message function optionally the VPN engine may access the communication server or some other function to send a private communication. The communication server may be able to send email instant messages or other types of direct communications between the two or more users. Thus the VPN engine can send an email directly to the other person through the communication server in step . In embodiments the VPN engine accesses user database for the user to which the content is directed. The user data can include an email instant message address or some other address to send a communication. After determining where to send the message privately the VPN engine can post an alert message to the social media site in step . The alert message can alert the other user that content which is a private has been sent to the other user s email or other account and can provide notice as to which communication media the private message was sent. The message may then be sent through the communication server to the other user. Thus the user may determine from the social media site that a new email or instant message has been provided and can access that through message private means.

System further includes a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a VPN VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server computers . One server may be a web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The system may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the web application server may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and file server and or application server may function as servers or other systems described herein.

The system may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. Database may be the same or similar to the database used herein.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as program code implementing the servers or devices described herein. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other types of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

