---

title: Steering device
abstract: A steering device that is enabled to move and operate in multiple directions and has a simple configuration. A steering device is equipped with a steering member and a guide member, and the guide member is attached to an input shaft. The steering member is provided with left and right grips, and a movement direction changing mechanism is provided between the guide member and the left and right grips. If the left and right grips are operated by a small steering angle, the movement direction of the left and right grips is changed to the direction around the input shaft through the movement direction changing mechanism. When the left and right grips are operated by a large steering angle, the movement direction of the left and right grips is the direction around the input shaft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08960043&OS=08960043&RS=08960043
owner: Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08960043
owner_city: Toyota-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100329
---
The present invention relates to a steering device that is provided at a driver s seat or the like of a vehicle and is enabled to be steered and operated by a driver or the like.

As steering devices that are provided at a driver s seat or the like of a vehicle and are enabled to be steered and operated by a driver or the like in the related art there is one that is operable in a rotational direction around a steering shaft and directions other than this. As such a steering device a steering device that can rotate a steering grip in directions other than the rotational direction around the steering shaft is known for example refer to Patent Literature 1 . This steering device can control the yaw characteristics or slip angle of a vehicle by rotating the steering grip.

However in the steering device disclosed in the above Patent Literature 1 a rotating shaft of the grip other than the steering shaft is provided and the rotation of the grip is transmitted to an electronic control unit via paths other than the steering shaft. For this reason there are problems in that transmission paths may be diverse and structure may be complicated.

Thus an object of the invention is to provide a steering device that is enabled to move and operate in multiple directions and has a simple configuration.

A steering device related to the invention that has solved the above problems includes a steering operation element operable by a driver and a movement direction changing mechanism that changes an operation in the second movement direction to an operation in the first movement direction. The steering operation element is enabled to operate in a first movement direction that is a predetermined movement direction and a second movement direction that is a direction different from the first movement direction.

In the steering device related to the invention an operation is made possible in the first movement direction and the second movement direction that is a direction different from the first movement direction. At this time the steering device related to the invention is equipped with the movement direction changing mechanism that changes an operation in the second movement direction into an operation in the first movement direction. For this reason movement and operation is made possible in multiple directions and a simple configuration can be provided.

Here an aspect can be adopted in which the first movement direction is a movement direction around a main input shaft that transmits the movement of the steering operation element to a steering system.

In this way in a case where the first movement direction is a movement direction around the main input shaft that transmits the movement of the steering operation element to the steering system the rotational direction of the drive shaft can be the first movement direction of the invention.

Additionally an aspect can be adopted in which a reaction force in the second movement direction is set to be smaller than a reaction force in the first movement direction.

In this way as the reaction force in the second movement direction is set to be smaller than the reaction force in the first movement direction an operation in the second movement direction is performed earlier than an operation in the first movement direction.

For this reason since the operation in the second movement direction is eventually performed earlier than the first movement direction that is the movement around the main input shaft the operation of the steering operation element can be made small in the case of a small steering angle where the drive shaft is rotated small. Accordingly the operation amount of the driver can be reduced and a burden on the driver can be mitigated.

Moreover an aspect can be adopted in which a change ratio of the movement direction changing mechanism in the first movement direction varies according to the amount of input in the second movement direction.

In this way as the change ratio in the first movement direction varies according to the amount of input in the second movement direction the change ratio varies gradually as approaching a position where the movement direction is changed. For this reason a feeling of discomfort given to the driver can be reduced when the movement direction is changed from the first movement direction to the second movement direction.

Additionally an aspect can be adopted in which a neutral position is set in the steering operation element and restoring force imparting means is provided to restore the steering operation element to the neutral position.

In this way as restoring force imparting means is provided to restore the steering operation element to the neutral position the steering operation element can be easily restored to the neutral position.

Moreover an aspect can be adopted in which damping force imparting means is provided to impart a damping force according to the amount of input in the second movement direction to the steering operation element.

In this way as damping force imparting means is provided to impart a damping force according to the amount of input in the second movement direction a damping force according to the amount of input can be imparted. Accordingly the driver can easily grasp the amount of input to the second movement direction.

Additionally an aspect can be adopted in which the second movement direction is a tangential direction of a virtual circle that is a locus in the first movement direction.

In this way since the second movement direction is a tangential direction of a virtual circle that is a locus in the first movement direction the distances from the input shaft in the second movement direction and the first movement direction are changed. As a result a driver s operation becomes a small operation when a small steering angle of operation is performed and a driver s operation becomes a large operation when a large steering angle of operation is performed. Accordingly since the driver s operation becomes the operation suited to the steering angle a burden when a small steering angle of operation is performed can be made small.

Moreover an aspect can be adopted in which a stopper is provided to regulate a movement in the second movement direction.

In this way as a stopper is provided to regulate a movement in the second movement direction the distance of travel in the second movement direction can be controlled. As a result the change of the movement direction can be surely performed and shifting in the first movement direction can be made after moderate movement in the second movement direction.

Additionally an aspect can be made in which the movement direction changing mechanism includes a rotation member enabled to rotate in the first movement direction and a curved member formed with a curved surface and enabled to move in the second movement direction the rotation member rotates along the curved surface in the curved member with the movement of the curved member the curvature of the curved surface in the curved member decreases toward end portions of the curved surface and the distance between the end portions of the curved surface and the rotation center of the rotation member is smaller than the radius of the rotation member.

In this way in the steering device related to the invention the rotation member arrives at the end portions of the curved member if the movement of the curved member in the second movement direction proceeds. Here the curvature of the curved surface in the curved member decreases toward the end portions of the curved surface and the distance between the end portions of the curved surface and the rotation center of the rotation member is smaller than the radius of the rotation member. For this reason after the rotation member arrives at the end portions of the curved member the end portions of the curved member serve as stoppers and shifting to the movement in the first movement direction in which the rotation member is directly rotated by the movement of the curved member is made. For this reason it is unnecessary to separately provide stoppers and it is possible to contribute to reduction in the number of parts.

Also an aspect can be adopted in which the second movement direction is a movement direction around a rotating shaft different from a rotating shaft in the first movement direction and the movement direction changing mechanism changes a rotational operation in the second movement direction into a rotational operation in the first movement direction.

In this way as the second movement direction is the movement direction around a different rotating shaft different from a rotating shaft in the first movement direction the distance from the rotating shaft in the second movement direction to the steering operation element can be changed with respect to the distance from the rotating shaft in the first movement direction to the steering operation element. For this reason since operation aspects when the steering operation element is operated to perform a large steering angle of turning and to perform a small steering angle of turning can be changed the driver s operation can be made easy.

According to the steering device related to the invention movement and operation is made possible in multiple directions and a simple configuration can be provided.

Embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In addition in the description of the drawings the same elements will be designated by the same reference numerals and a duplicate description will be omitted. Additionally for convenience of illustration dimension scales of the drawings do not necessarily coincide with those described.

The steering member is equipped with a left grip L and a right grip R that serve as a steering operation element of the invention. The left and right grips L and R are enabled to operate independently from each other. Additionally a left end portion of a left rod L is fixed to the left grip L and a right end portion of a right rod R is fixed to the right grip R.

Additionally a left rack member L is attached to a right end portion of the left rod L and a right rack member R is attached to a left end portion of the right rod R. Additionally a sliding mechanism not shown is provided between the left rod L and the guide plate in the guide member . The movement of the left rack member L in a vertical direction is guided by this sliding mechanism. Similarly a sliding mechanism is also provided between the right rod R and the guide plate and the movement of the right rack member R in the vertical direction is guided. This vertical direction is a tangential direction of a virtual circle that is the locus of the input shaft in the rotational direction thereof.

Moreover both the left and right rack members L and R mesh with the pinion gear . For this reason the pinion gear rotates around the input shaft with the movement of the left and right rack members L and R in the vertical direction. At this time the guide member does not rotate and the pinion gear rotates relative to the guide member .

The left and right grips L and R changes an operation in the vertical direction that is a second movement direction M to an operation in the rotational direction around the input shaft that is a first movement direction M by the left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear . The left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear constitute a movement direction changing mechanism of the invention. The first movement direction M and the second movement direction M are set within the same plane.

Additionally a left stopper L is provided between the left rod L and the left rack member L and the left stopper L moves with the left rod L and the left rack member L. Moreover a right stopper R is provided between the right rod R and the right rack member R and the right stopper R moves with the right rod R and the right rack member R.

The left rod L the left rack member L and the left stopper L move up and down with the vertical movement of the left grip L if a driver or the like moves the left grip L up and down. Similarly the right rod R the right rack member R and the right stopper R move up and down with the vertical movement of the right grip R.

Moreover the guide member is equipped with the guide plate and an upper left stopper receiver LU a lower left stopper receiver LL an upper right stopper receiver RU and a lower right stopper receiver RL are attached to the guide plate . Among these the upper left stopper receiver LU and the lower left stopper receiver LL are arranged at upper and lower positions with the left stopper L interposed therebetween. Additionally the upper right stopper receiver RU and the lower right stopper receiver RL are arranged at upper and lower positions with the right stopper R interposed therebetween.

Additionally the guide plate in the guide member is connected to the input shaft via a gear mechanism not shown . For this reason if the guide plate rotates the input shaft is adapted to rotate with the rotation of the guide plate . Moreover since the pinion gear is attached to the tip portion of the input shaft the input shaft is adapted to rotate with the rotation of the pinion gear .

Moreover reaction forces applied to the left and right grips L and R when the pinion gear is rotating relative to the guide member are made smaller than reaction forces applied to the left and right grips L and R when the steering member and the guide member are rotating around the input shaft on the whole.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment the driver grips the left grip L and the right grip R and performs steering operation. Here for example in a case where a left turn is intended from the neutral position the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right rods L and R and the left and right rack members L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. If the left and right rack members L and R move downward and upward respectively as shown in the pinion gear that meshes with the left and right rack members L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft and rotates the input shaft in the same direction. The steered wheels not shown are turned small in a left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right grips L and R are further moved and the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively the movement of the left and right rods L and R and the left and right rack members L and R is regulated with respect to the guide member . Moreover if the right grip R is moved upward and the left grip L is moved downward since the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in a left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear . For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided.

Additionally in the steering device S related to the present embodiment a small steering angle of turning can be performed simply by moving the left and right grips L and R up and down and when a large steering angle of turning is required the rotation of the steering member including the left and right grips L and R around the input shaft is required. For this reason the operation amount of the steering member of the driver when a small steering angle of turning is performed can be made small and a burden on the driver can be mitigated.

Moreover in the steering device related to the present embodiment the long left and right rods L and R are interposed between the left and right grips L and R and the left and right rack members L and R respectively. For this reason the distances from the axis when the left and right grips L and R are rotated around the input shaft to force points increase. Accordingly it is possible to contribute to improvement in the operativity at the time of a large steering angle. Additionally the left and right grips L and R are cut off on the upper side thereof. For this reason the visibility during straight traveling can be improved.

Additionally in the above embodiment the input shaft rotates via the movement direction changing mechanism before the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the upper left stopper receiver LU and the lower right stopper receiver RL or the lower left stopper receiver LL and the upper right stopper receiver RU. Moreover the input shaft is rotated by the rotation of the steering member including the left and right grips L and R and the guide member after the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the upper left stopper receiver LU and the lower right stopper receiver RL or the lower left stopper receiver LL and the upper right stopper receiver RU. For this reason the movement in the second movement direction M can be a moderate quantity and thereafter and shifting to the movement in the first movement direction M can be made. Moreover the change from the operation in the second movement direction M to the operation in the first movement direction M can be continuously and smoothly shifted.

Moreover reaction forces applied to the left and right grips L and R when the pinion gear is rotating relative to the guide member are made smaller than reaction forces applied to the left and right grips L and R when the steering member and the guide member are rotating around the input shaft on the whole. For this reason eventually since the operation in the second movement direction M is performed earlier than the first movement direction M the operation of the left and right grips L and R can be made small in the case of the small steering angle where the input shaft is rotated small. Accordingly the operation amount of the driver can be reduced and a burden on the driver can be mitigated.

Additionally the second movement direction M is a tangential direction of a virtual circle that is a locus in the first movement direction M and the distances from the input shaft in the second movement direction M and the first movement direction M are changed. For this reason the driver operates the grips L and R small when performing a small steering angle of operation and operates the grips L and R largely when performing a large steering angle of operation. Accordingly since the driver s operation becomes the operation suited to the steering angle a burden when a small steering angle of operation is performed can be made small and the amount of operation for the steering angle can be suited to driver s feeling.

The left curved rack L is equipped with rack teeth arranged along a curved surface whose curvature is smaller than that of a circular shape. Similarly the right curved rack R is equipped with rack teeth arranged along a curved surface whose curvature is smaller than that of a circular shape. Additionally the curvatures in these rack gear teeth are the largest at central positions thereof and decrease toward the outside.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right curved racks L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member while rotating respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. At this time as shown in the pinion gear that meshes with the left and right curved racks L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft and the input shaft is rotated in the same direction. The steered wheels not shown are turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively the movement of the left and right grips L and R with respect to the guide member is regulated. Moreover if the right grip R is moved upward and the left grip L is moved downward since the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right curved racks L and R and the pinion gear . For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided.

Additionally in the steering device related to the present embodiment the same working effects as the steering device S related to the above first embodiment are exhibited and also the left and right curved racks L and R are provided. For this reason if the left and right grips L and R are moved in order to perform a small steering angle of turning as shown in the right grip R moves to a position slightly inside right above that is shown with a broken line and inclines so that an upper end portion thereof moves inward more than a lower end portion thereof. One left grip L inclines so that a lower end portion thereof moves inward more than an upper end portion thereof.

Accordingly when the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively the angles of the left and right grips L and R are angles that are easily led to the angles of driver s wrists when a large steering angle of turning is performed afterwards. Hence the steering device S when being shifted from a small steering angle to a large steering angle can be smoothly operated.

The left and right curved racks L and R related to the present embodiment have the same form as the above second embodiment. Additionally both end portions of the left curved rack L are formed with left projection portions LU and LL respectively and both end portions of the right curved rack R are formed with right projection portions RU and RL respectively. The projection portions LU LL RU and RL function as stoppers.

Next in the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above second embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right curved racks L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member while rotating respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. At this time as shown in the pinion gear that meshes with the left and right curved racks L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M and the input shaft is rotated in the same direction. The steered wheels not shown are turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the pinion gear arrives at the position of the lower right projection portion RL of the right curved rack R and the position of the upper left projection portion LU of the left curved rack L the pinion gear bites into the projection portions RL and LU and rotation of the pinion gear is suppressed. As the rotation of the pinion gear is suppressed the movement of the left and right grips L and R with respect to the guide member is regulated.

Moreover if the right grip R is moved upward and the left grip L is moved downward since the rotation of the pinion gear is suppressed as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right curved racks L and R and the pinion gear . For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided.

Additionally the steering device S related to the present embodiment is adapted to shift from the movement in the second movement direction to the movement in the first movement direction by suppressing the rotation of the pinion gear . For this reason since it is not necessary to separately provide members such as stoppers it is possible to contribute to reduction in the number of parts as many as that.

As shown in the steering device S related to the present embodiment has the same member configuration as the steering device S related to the above first embodiment. Here in a right rack member R related to the present embodiment as shown in the teeth of a middle portion thereof in the height direction is densely formed and the teeth are sparsely formed gradually toward the outside in the vertical direction. Additionally the teeth of the left rack member L are also similarly densely formed at a middle portion thereof and are sparsely formed toward the outside in the vertical direction. Moreover the teeth of a pinion gear are densely and sparsely formed so as to mesh with the left and right rack members L and R.

In this way a so called gear ratio variable sliding mechanism is formed by the left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear . Moreover since the teeth at the middle positions of the left and right rack members L and R are dense the gear ratio at the neutral position of the steering device S decreases and the gear ratio increases as being away from the neutral position.

Next in the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right rack members L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member while rotating respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. At this time as shown in the pinion gear that meshes with the left and right rack members L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft and the input shaft is rotated in the same direction. The steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively the movement of the left and right grips L and R with respect to the guide member is regulated. Moreover if the right grip R is moved upward and the left grip L is moved downward since the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the left and right stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL respectively as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear . For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided.

Moreover in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the gear ratio variable sliding mechanism is formed by the left and right rack members L and R and the pinion gear the gear ratio is small at the neutral position and the gear ratio increases as being apart from the neutral position. For this reason a feeling of discomfort given to the driver can be reduced when the movement direction is changed from the second movement direction M to the first movement direction M or from the first movement direction M to the second movement direction M. Moreover fine adjustment of the steering angle in the vicinity of the neutral position can be easily performed and the steering angle can be easily increased at a position apart from the neutral position.

The steering member in the steering device S is equipped with the left grip L and the right grip R. The left and right grips L and R all have a substantially crescent shape and are enabled to operate independently from each other. Additionally a left end portion of a left rocking rod L is fixed to a substantially middle portion of the left grip L in the height direction and a left end portion of a rod is attached to a right end portion of the left rocking rod L. Here the left rocking rod L is rockably attached to the rod .

On the other hand a right end portion of a right rocking rod R is fixed to a substantially middle portion of the right grip R in the height direction and a right end portion of the rod is attached to a left end portion of the right rocking rod R. Additionally the right rocking rod R is rockably attached to the rod . Moreover a longitudinal central portion of the rod is coupled to the input shaft . For this reason the rod is made rotatable around the input shaft and if the rod rotates the input shaft rotates with the rotation of the rod .

Moreover a left end portion in the rod is provided with an upper left stopper LU and a lower left stopper LL that regulate the rocking range of the left rocking rod L. The left rocking rod L is made rockable with the left end portion in the rod as an axis and the movement of the left rocking rod in the rocking direction is regulated by abutting on the left stopper LU and LL. Similarly a right end portion in the rod is provided with an upper right stopper RU and a lower right stopper RL that regulate the rocking range of the right rocking rod R. The left and right stoppers LU LL RU and RL are respectively provided on both sides above and below the rod . For this reason the left and right stoppers LU LL RU and RL regulate the rocking of the left and right rocking rods L and R in up down and left right directions.

Additionally one end portion of a left wire member L is connected to the upper end portion of the left grip L and the other end portion of the left wire member L is connected to the lower end portion of the left grip L. The left wire member L is wound around the cylindrical transmission member . Moreover one end portion of a right wire member R is connected to the upper end portion of the right grip R and the other end portion of the right wire member R is connected to the lower end portion of the right grip R. The right wire member R is wound around the cylindrical transmission member .

For this reason if the left and right grips L and R are operated in a state where the rod does not rotate with respect to the input shaft the left and right rocking rods L and R rocks with respect to the rod . Additionally the left and right grips L and R are also rocked with the rocking of the left and right rocking rods L and R. The left and right wire members L and R wound around the cylindrical transmission member rotates the cylindrical transmission member with a frictional force through the rocking of the left and right grips L and R. As the cylindrical transmission member rotates the input shaft is adapted to rotate.

Here if a frictional force applied to the steering device S when the left and right rocking rods L and R rock with respect to the rod is compared with a frictional force applied to the steering device S when the rod rotates with respect to the input shaft the frictional force applied to the steering device S when the rod rotates with respect to the input shaft is smaller. For this reason when the left and right grips L and R are operated from the neutral position the left rocking rod L and the right rocking rod R are adapted to state rocking with respect to the rod before the cylindrical transmission member rotates. Also the left and right rocking rods L and R rotate when the left and right grips L and R are further operated after the left and right rocking rods L and R abut against the left and right stopper LU LL RU and RL respectively.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

With the movement of the left and right grips L and R as shown in the left and right rocking rods L and R rock around rocking shafts at the end portions of the rod that is the second movement direction M. The left and right grips L and R are also rocked around the rocking shafts of the left and right rocking rods L and R by the rocking of the left and right rocking rods L and R.

Here through the rocking of the left and right grips L and R the cylindrical transmission member rotates in the counterclockwise direction via the left and right wire members L and R and the input shaft rotates with the rotation of the cylindrical transmission member . As a result the steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction. At this time since the driver can operate the left and right grips R and L simply by the movement of his her wrist a burden to driver s operation can be made small.

Then if the left and right rocking rods L and R abut against the left and right stopper LU LL RU and RL respectively the movement of the left and right rocking rods L and R with respect to the rod is regulated. Thereafter if the right grip R is further moved upward and the left grip L is further moved downward since the left and right rocking rods L and R abut against the left and right stoppers LU LL RU and RL respectively as shown in the overall steering member including the rod rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M. The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the rod . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the direction around the rocking shafts of the left and right rocking rods L and R and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right rocking rods L and R the left and right wire members L and R and the cylindrical transmission member .

For this reason the movement in the direction around the rocking shafts of the left and right rocking rods L and R is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the direction around the rocking shafts of the left and right rocking rods L and R and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided.

Additionally in the steering device related to the present embodiment the same working effects as the steering device S related to the above first embodiment are exhibited and also the movement of the left and right grips L and R for performing a small steering angle of turning can be made to be the same as that of the steering device S related to the above second embodiment. For this reason angles that are easily led to the angles of the driver wrists when being shifted from a small steering angle to a large steering angle are given. Hence the steering device S when being shifted from a small steering angle to a large steering angle can be smoothly operated.

Moreover since the left and right grips L and R are greatly turned when a large steering angle of turning is performed the driver can be made to realize a feeling of performing a large steering angle of turning. In this way since operation aspects when the left and right grips L and R are operated to perform a large steering angle of turning and when the left and right grips are operated to perform a small steering angle of turning can be changed the driver s operation can be made easy.

The steering member in the steering device S is equipped with the left grip L and the right grip R. The left and right grips L and R all have a substantially crescent shape and are enabled to operate independently from each other. Additionally a rocking link mechanism is provided between the left grip L and the right grip R. The rocking link mechanism is equipped with an upper left link LU an upper right link RU a lower left link LL and a lower right link RL.

One end portion of the upper left link LU is rockably attached to the upper end portion of the left grip L and one end portion of the upper right link RU is rockably attached to the upper end portion of the right grip R. Additionally one end portion of the lower left link LL is rockably attached to the lower end portion at the left grip L and one end portion of the lower right link RL is rockably attached to the lower end portion in the right grip R.

Moreover an upper rocking shaft U and a lower rocking shaft L are erected from the surface of the disc like transmission member . The other end portion of the upper left link LU and the other end portion of the upper right link RU are rockably connected to each other by the upper rocking shaft U the other end portion of the lower left link LL and the other end portion of the lower right link RL are rockably connected to each other by the lower rocking shaft L.

Additionally an upper left stopper LU an upper right stopper RU a lower left stopper LL and a lower right stopper RL are provided on the surface in the input shaft . The upper left stopper LU regulates the downward movement of the upper left link LU and the upper right stopper RU regulates the downward movement of the upper right link RU. Additionally the lower left stopper LL regulates the upward movement of the lower left link LL and the lower right stopper RL regulates the upward movement of the lower right link RL.

For this reason if the left and right grips L and R are operated upward and downward from the neutral state the rocking link mechanism operates. The disc like transmission member rotates around the input shaft with the operation of the rocking link mechanism and the input shaft rotates with the disc like transmission member . Additionally if the links LU LL RU and RL abut against the stoppers LU LL RU and RL respectively with the operation of the rocking link mechanism the links LU LL RU and RL pushes out the stopper LU LL RU and RL respectively whereby the input shaft rotates directly.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

With the movement of the left and right grips L and R as shown in the rocking link mechanism operates. The rocking link mechanism moves the upper end of the left grip L in an upper left direction and moves the lower end of the left grip in a lower right direction and moves the upper end of the right grip R in the upper left direction and moves the lower end of the right grip in the lower right direction. At this time the moving direction of the left and right grips L and R is the second movement direction M.

The rocking link mechanism changes the movement direction of the left and right grips L and R to the first movement direction M in the disc like transmission member . For this reason the disc like transmission member has such operation that the upper rocking shaft U moves in the lower left direction and the lower rocking shaft L moves in the upper right direction. Here through the operation of the upper rocking shaft U and the lower rocking shaft L the disc like transmission member rotates in the counterclockwise direction and the input shaft rotates with the rotation of the disc like transmission member . As a result the steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction. At this time since the driver can operate the left and right grips R and L simply by the movement of his her wrist a burden to driver s operation can be made small.

Also if the links LU and RL abut against the stoppers LU and RL respectively as shown in the links LU and RL push out the stopper LU and RL respectively. The input shaft is directly rotated in the counterclockwise rotation that is the first movement direction M by the push out force. The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the second movement direction M and the first movement direction M in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the links LU LL RU and RL and the stopper LU LL RU and RL in the rocking link mechanism .

For this reason the movement in the second movement direction M is integrated until the movement is changed to the first movement direction M and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the movement in the two directions of the second movement direction M and the first movement direction M is possible and a simple configuration can be provided.

Additionally in the steering device related to the present embodiment the same working effects as the steering device S related to the above first embodiment are exhibited and also the movement of the left and right grips L and R for performing a small steering angle of turning can be made to be the same as that of the steering device S related to the above second embodiment. For this reason angles that are easily led to the angles of the driver wrists when being shifted from a small steering angle to a large steering angle are given. Hence the steering device S when being shifted from a small steering angle to a large steering angle can be smoothly operated.

Moreover since the left and right grips L and R are greatly turned when a large steering angle of turning is performed the driver can be made to realize a feeling of performing a large steering angle of turning. In this way since operation aspects when the left and right grips L and R are operated to perform a large steering angle of turning and when the left and right grips are operated to perform a small steering angle of turning can be changed the driver s operation can be made easy.

As shown in the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the above first embodiment is equipped with the steering member the guide member and the input shaft . The steering member similarly to the above first embodiment is equipped with the left and right grips L and R the left and right rods L and R and the left and right stoppers L and R.

Additionally the left slider member L is fixed to the right end portion of the left rod L and the right slider member R is fixed to the left end portion of the right rod R. The left and right slider members L and R has a configuration in which the rack teeth are removed from the left and right rack members L and R in the steering device S related to the first embodiment are guided by a sliding mechanism not shown and are enabled to move in the vertical direction.

Moreover a left rotation transmission member L is attached to the left slider member L and a right rotation transmission member R is attached to the right slider member R. The left and right rotation transmission members L and R are formed from flat springs and are all connected to the input shaft . The left and right rotation transmission members L and R constitute restoring force imparting means of the invention.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right rods L and R and the left and right slider members L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. If the left and right slider members L and R move downward and upward respectively as shown in the left and right rotation transmission members L and R move downward and upward respectively and the left and right grips L and R and the input shaft that is the first movement direction M is rotated in the counterclockwise direction. The steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right grips L and R are further moved and the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the lower left stopper receiver LL and the upper right stopper receiver RU respectively the movement of the left and right rods L and R with respect to the guide member is regulated. Moreover if the right grip R is moved upward and the left grip L is moved downward since the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the lower left stopper receiver LL and the upper right stopper receiver RU respectively as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right slider members L and R and the left and right rotation transmission members L and R. For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided. Additionally generation of teeth knocking sound that occurs in a case where a rack and pinion mechanism or the like is used can be prevented.

Moreover in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right rotation transmission members L and R are formed from flat springs and urges the input shaft in the direction of the neutral position. For this reason the rigidity around the shaft when the operation in the second movement direction is performed can be made high. Moreover when the left and right grips L and R are operated upward and downward to perform steering operation the left and right grips L and R can be easily returned to the neutral position.

As shown in the steering device S related to the present embodiment is equipped with the same guide member and input shaft as the above first embodiment in addition to the steering member . Additionally the left and right sliding members L and R are respectively fixed to the left and right grips L and R in the steering member related to the present embodiment. Both the left and right sliding members L and R are equipped with two rod members that extend along the radial direction of the input shaft .

Additionally the left and right rocking arms L and R that extend in the radial direction are attached to the input shaft and left and right roller members L and R are attached to the respective tip portions of the left and right rocking arms L and R. Moreover the left and right roller members L and R are respectively arranged so as to be pinched between the two rod members in the left and right sliding members L and R.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right sliding members L and R move downward and upward relative to the guide member respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. If the left and right sliding members L and R move downward and upward respectively as shown in the left and right roller members L and R attached to the tips of the left and right rocking arms L and R slide on the left and right sliding members L and R. For this reason the tip portions of the left and right rocking arms L and R move upward and downward respectively. The input shaft rotates in the counterclockwise direction that is the first movement direction M through the movement of the left and right rocking arms L and R. The steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right grips L and R are further moved and the left and right rocking arms L and R abut against the left and right sliding members L and R respectively the movement of the left and right rocking arms L and R with respect to the guide member is regulated. If the right grip R is further moved upward and the left grip L is further moved downward the position in the vicinity of a longitudinal tip portion of each of the left and right rocking arms L and R abut against a tip portion of one of the two rod members in the left and right sliding members L and R. As the left and right rocking arms L and R abut against the rod members of the left and right sliding members L and R as shown in the overall steering member including the left and right grips L and R rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft with the guide member . The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right sliding members L and R and the left and right rocking arms L and R. For this reason the movement in the vertical direction is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided. Additionally generation of teeth knocking sound that occurs in a case where a rack and pinion mechanism or the like is used can be prevented and the rigidity around the shaft when the operation in the second movement direction M is performed can be made high.

As shown in the steering device S related to the present embodiment is equipped with the same guide member and input shaft as the above first embodiment in addition to the steering member . Additionally the left and right roller support rod members L and R are respectively fixed to the left and right grips L and R in the steering member related to the present embodiment. Both the left and right roller support rod members L and R extend along the radial direction of the input shaft and have the left and right rollers L and R attached to the tip portions thereof respectively.

Additionally the guide plate in the guide member is provided with guide projections L and R that guides the movement of the left and right roller support rod members L and R. The guide projections L and R are all formed along the second movement direction M and guide the left and right roller support rod members L and R in the second movement direction M.

The cam shaft is attached to the tip portion of the input shaft . The cam shaft is formed with left and right sliding surfaces L and R that are curved surfaces on that the left and right rollers L and R slide respectively. For this reason the left and right grips L and R are made movable in directions along the left and right sliding surfaces L and R.

Moreover the distance between the left sliding surface L and the right sliding surface R is the shortest at middle positions of the sliding surfaces when the steering device S is in a neutral state and the distance between both becomes longer gradually as the sliding surfaces move in the vertical direction. Here if the distance between the left sliding surface L and the right sliding surface R in the cam shaft becomes longer than the distance between the left roller L and the right roller R the cam shaft and the input shaft rotate with the rotation of the left and right grips L and R.

The cam shaft is made rotatable around the input shaft as the left and right rollers L and R slide on the left and right sliding surfaces L and R respectively. As the cam shaft rotates the rotation of the cam shaft is transmitted to the input shaft and the input shaft is adapted to rotate.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

The left and right roller support rod members L and R move in the second movement direction M along the guide projections L and R respectively with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. If the left and right roller support rod members L and R move as shown in the left and right rollers L and R attached to the tips of the left and right roller support rod members L and R slide on the left and right sliding surfaces L and R in the cam shaft .

At this time the distance between the left sliding surface L and the right sliding surface R in the cam shaft is the shortest at middle positions of the sliding surfaces when the steering device S is in a neutral state and the distance between both becomes longer gradually as the sliding surfaces move in the vertical direction. For this reason if the left and right rollers L and R slide on the left and right sliding surfaces L and R in the cam shaft the cam shaft rotates in the counterclockwise direction that is the first movement direction M and the input shaft rotates in the counterclockwise direction with the rotation of the cam shaft . The steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Then if the left and right grips L and R are further moved and the distance between the left sliding surface L and the right sliding surface R in the cam shaft becomes longer than the distance between the left roller L and the right roller R the movement of the left and right roller support rod members L and R is regulated. Then if the right grip R is further moved upward and the left grip L is further moved downward as shown in the cam shaft rotates in a state where the cam shaft is pinched between the left roller L and the right roller R and the guide member rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M. The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the second movement direction M that is the vertical direction and the first movement direction M that is the rotational direction around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right roller support rod members L and R the left and right rollers L and R and the cam shaft . For this reason the movement in the direction along the left and right sliding surfaces L and R of the cam shaft is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the vertical direction and the rotational direction around the input shaft and a simple configuration can be provided. Additionally generation of teeth knocking sound that occurs in a case where a rack and pinion mechanism or the like is used can be prevented and the rigidity around the shaft when the operation in the second movement direction M is performed can be made high.

As shown in the steering device S related to the present embodiment is equipped with the same guide member and input shaft as the above first embodiment in addition to the steering member . Additionally the left and right rods L and R are fixed to the left and right grips L and R in the steering member related to the present embodiment and the left and right rods L and R are provided with the left and right worm gear members L and R respectively.

Additionally the worm wheel is attached to the tip portion of the input shaft . The left and right worm gear members L and R mesh with the worm wheel respectively. For this reason the left and right grips L and R are made movable in a direction passing through the sheet plane in .

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position as shown in and the left grip L is moved forward when viewed from the driver and the right grip R is moved backward when viewed from the driver. In this way the left grip L is rotated around the left worm gear member L that is the second movement direction M. Similarly the right grip R is rotated around the right worm gear member R that is the second movement direction M.

The left and right worm gear members L and R rotate with the movement of the left and right grips L and R. With the rotation of the left and right worm gear members L and R as shown in the worm wheel rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M. The input shaft also rotates with the rotation of the worm wheel . The steered wheels not shown are turned small in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

Thereafter if the left and right grips L and R are further moved in the same direction the meshing teeth between the left and right worm gear members L and R and the worm wheel disappear and the movement of the left and right grips L and R with respect to the worm wheel is regulated. Thereafter if the left and right grips L and R are further moved in the same direction as shown in the worm wheel is integrated with the input shaft and the guide member rotates in the counterclockwise direction around the input shaft that is the first movement direction M. The input shaft is rotated in the same direction with the rotation of the guide member . The steered wheels not shown are largely turned in the left turn direction by the rotation of the input shaft .

In this way in the steering device S related to the present embodiment the left and right grips L and R are made movable in the two directions of the second movement direction M around the left and right worm gear members L and R and the first movement direction M around the input shaft in turning the steered wheels. Here the steering device S is formed with a movement direction changing mechanism equipped with the left and right worm gear members L and R and the worm wheel . For this reason the movement in the front and rear direction viewed from the driver is integrated until the movement is changed to the rotational direction around the input shaft and is transmitted to the steering system. Accordingly the movement in the two directions of the second movement direction M around the left and right worm gear members L and R and the first movement direction M around the input shaft is possible and a simple configuration can be provided.

An eleventh embodiment will be described. is a front view of a steering device related to an eleventh embodiment and a front view of a modification of the steering device related to the eleventh embodiment. As shown in a steering devices S related to the present embodiment is mainly different from the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in that a neutral position restoring mechanism is provided between the left and right racks L and R and the input shaft .

The neutral position restoring mechanism is equipped with a left restoring spring and a right restoring spring . The left restoring spring is stretched between the left rack L and the input shaft . Additionally the right restoring spring is stretched between the right rack R and the input shaft . In this way the left and right grips L and R are urged in the direction of the neutral position by the neutral position restoring mechanism .

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

In this way the left and right grips L and R move in the vertical direction and the input shaft rotates small until the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL. As a result a small steering angle of turning is performed. The input shaft is rotated by the rotation of the steering member including the left and right grips L and R and the guide member after the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL. Accordingly the same working effects as the steering device S related to the above first embodiment can be obtained.

Moreover the steering device S related to the present embodiment is provided with the neutral position restoring mechanism . For this reason the neutral position restoring mechanism imparts a restoring force toward the neutral position from a moved position after being moved from the left and right grips L and R. Accordingly the neutral position restoring mechanism can easily restore the left and right grips L and R to the neutral position.

Here as for the neutral position restoring mechanism in the steering device S related to the present embodiment an aspect shown in can also be adopted in addition to the aspect shown in FIG. . The neutral position restoring mechanism in the steering device S shown in is equipped with a restoring spring . The restoring spring is stretched between the left rack L and the right rack R and the left and right grips L and R are urged in the direction of the neutral position by the neutral position restoring mechanism . An aspect in which the neutral position restoring mechanism is formed by such an aspect can be adopted.

A twelfth embodiment will be described. is a front view of a steering device related to a twelfth embodiment. As shown in a steering device S related to the present embodiment is mainly different from the steering device S related to the above first embodiment in that a variable damping force device is provided.

The variable damping force device is equipped with an absorber and a spring and is stretched between the left rack member L and the right rack member R. Additionally the variable damping force device is equipped with a displacement sensor a rotation sensor and an arithmetic unit . The displacement sensor is attached to the left rack member L and detects the travel distance the travel distance of the left and right grips L and R of the left rack member L. The displacement sensor transmits the detected displacement amount of the left rack member L to the arithmetic unit .

The rotation sensor is attached to the input shaft and detects the rotation angle of the input shaft . The rotation sensor transmits the detected rotation angle of the input shaft to the arithmetic unit . In the arithmetic unit the stroke value of the absorber is calculated on the basis of the displacement amount of the left rack member L transmitted from the displacement sensor and the rotation angle of the input shaft transmitted from the rotation sensor . In the arithmetic unit the calculated stroke value is transmitted to the absorber and the stroke length of the absorber is adjusted.

Next the operation and effects of the steering device S related to the present embodiment will be described. In the steering device S related to the present embodiment similarly to the above first embodiment in a case the driver intends for example a left turn from the neutral position the left and right grips L and R are moved in the second movement direction M. Specifically the left grip L is moved downward and the right grip R is moved upward.

In this way the left and right grips L and R move in the vertical direction and the input shaft rotates small until the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL. As a result a small steering angle of turning is performed. The input shaft is rotated by the rotation of the steering member including the left and right grips L and R and the guide member after the left and right stoppers L and R abut against the stopper receivers LU LL RU and RL. Accordingly the same working effects as those of the above first embodiment can be obtained.

Additionally the steering device S related to the present embodiment is provided with the variable damping force device . For this reason the attenuation amount when the left and right grips L and R are moved and the grips make a movement in the first movement direction can be suitably adjusted. Moreover by greatly setting the attenuation amount on the return side to the neutral position the movement in the second movement direction can be suppressed and the stability of operation can be enhanced.

Although preferred embodiments of the invention have been described the present invention is not limited to the above embodiments. For example in the above embodiments an aspect in which the gear ratio variable sliding mechanism shown in is provided in the steering device S in the first embodiment is described. However aspects in which the gear ratio variable sliding mechanism is provided even in other embodiments can be adopted. Additionally the neutral position restoring mechanism shown in or the variable damping force device shown in can also provided in the steering devices other than steering device S related to the above first embodiment.

The invention can be used as a steering device that is provided at a driver s seat or the like of a vehicle and is enabled to be steered and operated by a driver or the like.

