---

title: Determining whether to switch between group calls based on priority within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to determining whether to switch between group calls based on priority within a wireless communications system. In an embodiment, an announce message is received at a given access terminal that announces a second group session when the given access terminal is participating in the first group session. The given access terminal acquires one or more priority levels associated with one or more of the first and second group sessions. The access terminal determines whether to switch from the first group session to the second group session based on the one or more priority levels. The access terminal selectively switches from the first group session to the second group session based on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700081&OS=08700081&RS=08700081
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08700081
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 164 626 entitled DETERMINING WHETHER TO SWITCH BETWEEN GROUP CALLS BASED ON PRIORITY WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Mar. 30 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to determining whether to switch between group calls based on priority within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to determining whether to switch between group calls based on priority within a wireless communications system. In an embodiment an announce message is received at a given access terminal that announces a second group session when the given access terminal is participating in the first group session. The given access terminal acquires one or more priority levels associated with one or more of the first and second group sessions. The access terminal determines whether to switch from the first group session to the second group session based on the one or more priority levels. The access terminal selectively switches from the first group session to the second group session based on the determination.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer group e.g. multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends group messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits group messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

At some point during the first group session another AT AT sends a message requesting initiation of a second group session . For example a user of AT may push a PTT button at AT which triggers a PTT call request message to be transmitted on a reverse link access channel to the RAN which is in turn forwarded to the application server . In the application server receives a request to initiate the second group session from call initiator AT .

The application server forwards an announce message for announcing the second group session to a plurality of targets to the RAN e.g. via the PDSN or BSN . It may be assumed that AT belongs to a group associated with the second group session in the description of such that AT is a target AT for the announce message. As such the RAN transmits the announce message announcing the second group session at least within AT s sector .

Conventional group communication protocols e.g. such as PTT protocols PTX protocols broadcast and multicast service BCMCS protocols etc. do not provide a call waiting feature or other manner of switching between group calls. Accordingly upon receiving the announce message announcing the second group session AT responds with an auto reject message indicating a busy status . As will be appreciated a user of AT has no option of accepting the call at this point because AT is configured to automatically respond to the group announce message with a rejection due to AT s status as active in the first group session.

Still in AT is notified that the second group session was announced and auto rejected. Thus in a user of AT determines whether to manually switch from the first group session to the second group session. It is noted that AT itself does not make this determination as AT is defaulted to simply reject incoming group announces when AT is already engaged in another group session. If the user of AT determines to remain in the first group session in the process returns to . Otherwise if the user of AT determines to switch from the first group session to the second group session in AT manually terminates the first group session and manually requests to join the second group session by sending a registration message and a message accepting the announce message e.g. ANNOUNCE ACK to the application server e.g. which is relayed via the RAN e.g. if the group session corresponds to an IP multicasting session the registration message may correspond to a BCMCSFlowRegistration message sent to the RAN .

Assuming AT is a first responder to the second group session at this point upon receiving the ANNOUNCE ACK the application server sends a message instructing AT to begin speaking and AT receives the message and plays a tone indicating to a user of AT that the second group session has begun and the user can begin speaking . Thus in the user of AT begins speaking and relaying voice packets e.g. or other data as in a push to transfer PTX system that can transfer any type of digital data to the application server which in turn forwards the voice packets to the RAN for transmission at least within AT s sector on the downlink BCH . AT monitors the downlink BCH and receives the group transmissions associated with the second group session .

As will be appreciated in view of the above description of ATs complying with conventional group communication protocols such as protocols related to PTT PTX and or BCMCS are configured to auto reject announce messages when another group session is already active e.g. see of . Thus irrespective of the relative importance of the more recently announced group session a conventional AT does not have the option of switching group sessions without a manual decision and enforcement by the user of the AT.

At some point during the first group session another AT AT sends a message requesting initiation of a second group session . For example a user of AT may push a PTT button at AT which triggers a PTT call request message to be transmitted on a reverse link access channel to the RAN which is in turn forwarded to the application server . In the application server receives a request to initiate the second group session from call initiator AT .

The application server forwards an announce message for announcing the second group session a plurality of access terminals to the RAN e.g. via the PDSN or BSN . It may be assumed that AT belongs to a group associated with the second group session in the description of such that AT is a target AT for the announce message. As such the RAN transmits the announce message announcing the second group session at least within AT s sector e.g. on a downlink shared channel if the group session is supported by IP multicasting protocols or via separate messages addressed to specific target ATs if the group session is supported by IP unicasting protocols .

Instead of simply responding to the announce message with an auto reject message indicating that AT is busy i.e. engaged in another group call AT determines a first priority level associated with the first group session and also determines a second priority level associated with the second group session . For example the first and second priority levels determined in and respectively can be based on one or more priority rules contained within a priority profile contained in local memory at AT . In an example the priority profile can be established prior to receipt of the announce message at AT . In another example the priority levels determined in and or can be received from an external network entity e.g. the RAN the application server etc. . In another example AT may dynamically calculate the priority levels in and or instead of and or in addition to storing fixed priority values in local memory. The dynamic calculation could alternatively be performed at the external network entity and then conveyed to AT . It will be further appreciated that the manner in which the priority level of is established need not be the same as the manner in which the priority level of is established. Thus the priority levels of and or can either be system defined e.g. by the external network entity or user defined e.g. by a user of AT .

While not shown explicitly in can include an initial computation of the priority level for the second group session that is based on the announce message received at followed by supplemental information from the application server that can further affect the priority level. For example the application server can forward information to AT that indicates whether one or more other ATs e.g. ATs . . . N have actually joined the second group session. Based on the priority rules for AT AT can increase or decrease the priority level for the second group session based on which ATs have actually joined the second group session as compared to the announce message that simply indicates the potential call participants of the session. In this case even if the announce message is insufficient to prompt the call target to switch calls the additional knowledge that particular call participant s actually join the call may cause the call target to make the switch. A delay period can be defined by the call target during which supplemental information of this type will be taken into account to affect the priority for an announced call.

After determining the first and second priority levels in and respectively AT determines whether to switch from the first group session to the second group session based on the determined priority levels .

Returning to and in a first example at least one of the first and second priority levels can be determined from the priority profile based on an identification of an originator of the first and second group sessions as illustrated in Table 1 below 

In Table 1 a priority level value e.g. wherein a lower number corresponds to a higher priority level is associated with each of ATs . . . N. Thus if AT was the originator for the first group session the first priority level or priority level value determined in is 2 . Likewise because AT is known to be the originator of the second group session e.g. because an identification of the group call or session originator is contained within the announce message the second priority level or priority level value determined in is 1 . Accordingly in this example with respect to Table 1 the priority profile is based on the priority rule that an identification of a group call initiator or originator controls the priority level.

In a second example instead of determining priority level values for each particular AT individually a given group or class of ATs can be collectively associated with the same priority level or priority level value. For example a domain name known to be associated with business associates e.g. Qualcomm etc. can be allocated a relatively high priority level value. Thus if an originator of a group call can be associated with business associates or otherwise as work related e.g. based on an associated domain name its determined priority level can be the higher priority level e.g. wherein higher priority level corresponds to a more important priority level or lower priority level value among i the class based priority level and ii the individual AT s priority level. Thus if an especially important work contact e.g. a boss a CEO etc. is allocated a higher priority level than work contacts as a general class the higher priority level is used as the priority level value.

In Table 2 above a priority level value e.g. wherein a lower number corresponds to a higher priority level is associated with each of ATs . . . N as in Table 1. However Table 2 is further associated a give priority level value of 1 with any domain name of an originator that happens to be work related or related to a class defined to include work contacts. Thus the priority profile of Table 2 is based on the priority rule that an identification or class of a group call initiator or originator controls the priority level with a lower priority level value or higher priority level being used in case priority level values are not consistent for an identified AT and that AT s associated class in the priority profile.

For example if AT is the CEO of AT s company and belongs to a class Domain Name is Work Related in Table 2 AT s class related priority level value is 1 . However AT s individual priority level value e.g. because he she is the CEO in Table 2 is 0 . Thus the priority level value of 0 would be used in this case because 0 has a higher priority level than 1 .

In a third example the identity or class of the group call initiator or originator need not be the only factor considered in determining the priority level associated with a given group session. For example one or more target ATs belonging to the group associated with a group session can be factored into the priority level determination of and or . For example the identifications of the target ATs can be based on an indication of which targets are invited to join the group session which can be conveyed to AT by information included within the announce message of for the second group session in an example or in an earlier announce message not illustrated in for the first group session . Alternatively a separate out of band message can be used to convey the identifications of one or more target ATs for either group session. Alternatively the identifications of the target ATs can be based on which target ATs have actually joined either group session. In a further example a given AT or class of ATs may have a different priority level when determined to be a target AT than when determined to be a group call initiator or originator. An example of this is illustrated in Table 3 below as follows 

As shown in Table 3 above the priority levels associated with ATs or classes of ATs are lower than when the ATs or classes of ATs are target ATs as compared to when the ATs or classes of ATs are group call initiators of originators. For example assume that the second group session in is announced with AT as call initiator where AT does not belong to class Domain Name is Work Related with ATs and as target ATs and AT belongs to class Domain Name is Work Related . AT s priority level value as originator is 0 AT s individual priority level value as target is 4 and AT s class priority level value as target is 2 . Accordingly in this example the second priority level is 0 as 0 is the highest qualifying priority level value for the second group session within the priority profile.

While Table 3 shows this initiator vs. target relationship as a simple offset of 1 e.g. target AT priority level value AT as initiator priority level value 1 it will be appreciated that other relationships are possible. For example because target ATs are not guaranteed to actually participate in a group call when the group call is announced the priority level associated with a target AT can be offset or adjusted from its corresponding call initiator priority level by a probability or expectation that the target AT will actually participate in the group call e.g. based on a history of the target AT s acceptance rate or alternatively based on a default expectation level . Thus the priority profile of Table 3 is based on the priority rule that the highest priority level or lowest priority level value associated with a group call based on the call initiator e.g. AT ID or class or a highest prioritized call target e.g. AT ID or class is used as the priority level for the group session.

In another alternative example instead of relying on a probability or expectation that a target AT will join an announced group session AT can refrain from joining the group session initially and send periodic status update requests to obtain a listing of ATs actively participating in an announced group session. In this example target ATs are either given no consideration or alternatively are given less consideration before the target ATs actually join the group session.

In a fourth example additional criteria aside from AT IDs or a class associated with a group call originator or target AT for the group call can be configured to affect the priority level. Calendar information for instance can be taken into consideration for example to adjust a class associated with work contacts by granting the work contacts a higher priority or lower priority level value during work hours e.g. M F 9 am 5 pm and granting the work contacts a lower priority during night and weekend hours e.g. unless a particular work contact has a separate higher priority level for the AT aside from the class priority level which can designate a work associate who is also a close friend in an example . In yet another example location information e.g. based on sector or subnet identifier based on a satellite positioning system SPS measurement such as GPS etc. e.g. of the group call originator of one or more target ATs of the AT that has received the announce message etc. can affect the priority level.

In a fifth example as noted above AT may dynamically calculate the priority levels in and or instead of and or in addition to storing fixed priority values in local memory. For example assume that the first group session initially has a priority level of 2 as determined in accordance with any of the preceding examples. For example for one reason or another the first group session may become more important and the user of AT may increase the priority level for the first group session to 1 or 0 e.g. an old friend having a low priority level may call a user of AT and bring up an intriguing business deal . Alternatively the first group session may become less important and the user of AT may decrease the priority level for the first group session to 3 or 4 e.g. after discussing important business with the user of AT s accountant the account begins to an irrelevant conversation . In either case it will be appreciated that the initial priority level associated with the first group session need not be the priority level determined in . Rather based on user input regarding the on going importance of the first group session the priority level in can be adjusted or dynamically calculated. Likewise after switching to the second group session user input can again be used to dynamically calculate or adjust the second priority level and so on.

While some of the examples given above shown that an access terminal can have different priorities based the identification of a call participant and whether the call participant is a target of the session or an originator of the session in another embodiment of the invention call acceptance is an additional parameter that can affect the priority of a particular call. For example in a call to a large group one particular call invitee may have a higher priority than other call participants. The fact that the high priority call invitee is invited to the session grants the session a relatively high priority. In other words the speculative possibility that the high priority call invitee will actually accept the call means the call could be important. As will be appreciated if the high priority call invitee actually accepts the call and joins in the call can take on an even higher priority as compared to when the attendance of the high priority call invitee was merely speculative. As will be appreciated whether the high priority call invitee will actually accept the call will not generally be known when the announce message is sent out because the high priority call invitee will likely be receiving the announce message contemporaneously with the access terminal evaluating the call priority.

For example assume that A is currently in call X and A gets an invite to call Y from B and further assume that call Y is known to include C as a potential call participant or invitee . In this case A may only want to auto accept call Y and abandon call X if A can confirm that C has accepted and actually joined call Y. Thus until A is informed by the application server that C has joined the call A will remain in call X. This example demonstrates that certain conditions can delay a switch to a newly announced call in the event that more information is required to evaluate the particular call switching rules for the user. This example also assumes that A s rule is conveyed to the application server so the application server knows that a supplemental notification of C s call joinder is required to be sent to A for A to make the call switch determination.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that many different priority rules can be used to form the priority profile for a given AT AT that is used to determine the relative priority levels associated with a current or active group session i.e. the first group session and a later announced group session i.e. the second group session . As noted above any priority consideration in group calls e.g. PTT PTX and or BCMCS calls used to determine whether to automatically accept or switch between group calls provides more flexibility than a mechanism that simply auto rejects group calls after AT joins a group session.

Returning to AT determines whether to switch from the first group session to the second group session based on the first and second priority levels determined in and respectively. For example if a priority level value associated with the first priority level value of the first group session is less than or equal to a priority level value associated with the second priority level of the second group session AT determines not to switch from the first group session to the second group session in and the process returns to and AT continues to participate e.g. monitor in the first group session i.e. because the second group session does not have a superseding priority over the first group session . In another example if a priority level value associated with the first priority level of the first group session is higher than a priority level value associated with the second priority level of the second group session AT determines to switch from the first group session to the second group session in i.e. because the first group session has a higher priority than the first group session .

Accordingly if AT determines to switch from the first group session to the second group session in AT stops monitoring the first group session and sends one or more messages to the RAN that indicate an acceptance of the second group session e.g. an ANNOUNCE ACK for the application server and a registration e.g. a BCMCSFlowRegistration Message if the group session is supported by IP multicasting protocols to the second group session. In an example the ANNOUNCE ACK and registration messages can be bundled within a single reverse link packet. In an alternative example the ANNOUNCE ACK and registration messages can be transmitted to the RAN in separate packets. Further it will be appreciated that the TCH and QoS resources that are established for the first group session can be preserved for the second group session during the switch such that AT need not request new resources unless more resources are required for the second group session.

Assuming AT is a first responder to the second group session at this point upon receiving the ANNOUNCE ACK the application server sends a message instructing AT to begin speaking and AT receives the message and plays a tone indicating to a user of AT that the second group session has begun and the user can begin speaking . Thus in the user of AT begins speaking and relaying voice packets e.g. or other data as in a push to transfer PTX system that can transfer any type of digital data to the application server which in turn forwards the voice packets to the RAN for transmission at least within AT s sector on the downlink BCH . AT monitors the downlink BCH and receives the group transmissions associated with the second group session .

As will be appreciated in view of the above description of configuring an AT to determine whether to switch between group sessions or calls e.g. based on priority levels determined by priority profiles for the ATs permits more flexibility than auto rejecting all announce messages after an AT is engaged in a group session as well as providing a potentially faster switch time if one or more of the ATs determines to switch between group sessions e.g. without requiring manual user intervention at the AT .

In the embodiments of the invention described above while the term multicast has been used to refer to certain types of communication sessions and signaling messages this term has been used to correspond to any type of group call and is not necessarily restricted to IP multicasting implementations of group calls. For example a call between more than two ATs that communicate via unicast protocols can also be construed as a multicast call in other embodiments of the invention. Thus a multicast or group call can be achieved either with IP multicasting protocols or alternatively with multiple IP unicast sessions.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

