---

title: Hybrid spectral domain optical coherence tomography line scanning laser ophthalmoscope
abstract: An apparatus for imaging an eye includes a housing and a system of optical components disposed in the housing. The apparatus is capable of operating in a line scanning laser ophthalmoscope (LSLO) mode and an optical coherence tomography (OCT) mode. The system of optical components can include a first source to provide a first beam of light for the OCT mode and a second source to provide a second beam of light for the LSLO mode. In the OCT mode, a first optic is used that (i) scans, using a first surface of the first optic, the first beam of light along a retina of an eye in a first dimension, and (ii) descans, using the first surface, a first light returning from the eye in the first dimension to a detection system in the OCT mode. In the LSLO mode, the first optic is used where the second beam of light passes through a second surface of the first optic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08033665&OS=08033665&RS=08033665
owner: Physical Sciences, Inc.
number: 08033665
owner_city: Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
This application is a divisional of prior co pending application Ser. No. 12 630 358 filed on Dec. 3 2009 which is a divisional of application Ser. No. 11 799 315 filed on May 1 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 648 242 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 796 387 filed May 1 2006 all of which are owned by the assignee of the instant application and the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Air Force Contract No. FA9550 05 C 0181. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to optical imaging and more particularly to a device that combines a line scanning laser ophthalmoscope and a spectral domain optical coherence tomography system for retinal imaging.

Fundus and retinal imaging are important diagnostics in ophthalmology. Advanced imaging technologies now exist to detect tissue changes that occur due to retinal injuries not discernable with fundus photography. For example optical coherence tomography OCT can provide depth resolved images of ocular tissues approaching cellular resolution. The confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope SLO also plays an important role in high contrast visualization of thermal and other damage near sensitive retinal anatomy e.g. the fovea .

OCT is an emerging technology for micrometer scale cross sectional imaging of biological tissue and materials. A major application of OCT is ophthalmic imaging of the human retina in vivo. The Spectral Domain OCT SDOCT improvement of the traditional time domain OCT TDOCT technique known also as Fourier domain OCT FDOCT makes this technology suitable for real time cross sectional retinal imaging at video rate. At high speed the need for vertical realignment of A scan depth profiles is effectively eliminated across single B scans revealing a truer representation of retinal topography and the optic nerve head. Although B scan image distortion by involuntary eye movement is reduced transverse eye motion remains an issue for 3 D imaging and individual scan registration. Stabilized 3D OCT imaging can provide an en face fundus views for locating any given B scan relative to retinal landmarks. Alternatively simultaneous or interleaved live fundus imaging can also provide good retinal coordinates for a given B scan subject to the limitations of inter frame eye motion.

The fusion of wide field line scanning laser ophthalmoscope LSLO retinal imaging with SDOCT imaging can enhance the clinician s ability to quickly assess pathologies in linked complementary views with a simple compact instrument. To make the ocular interface of future SDOCT systems more efficient cost effective compact and eventually field portable neither complex motion stabilization systems nor opto mechanical integration of secondary fundus cameras are desirable. Yet without precise knowledge of the OCT scan coordinates within the live fundus image to guide scan acquisition and interpretation the diagnostic utility of this powerful imaging modality is limited.

The model for most clinical imaging systems to date has been the large stationary desk sized platforms with slit lamp style human interface bulky enclosure numerous secondary optical or physical adjustment features tethered power conditioning and signal processing units computer mouse and keyboard and CRT monitor. These units generally require the subjects to adapt their posture to the instruments rather than vice versa. They typically combine the user interface and image acquisition functions with the image processing functions the image analysis functions and the patient database. What is needed is an imaging system that can adapt to the patient one where the operator technician or medic can gather data and an eye injury expert can provide analysis remotely based on the data recorded.

The invention in one embodiment features a system to provide images of the retina of an eye using a single compact instrument. The retinal imaging system can be a combination of an OCT system e.g. a SDOCT system and a LSLO system. In some embodiments the SDOCT and LSLO share the same imaging optics and line scan camera for both OCT and LSLO imaging modes. Co registered high contrast wide field en face retinal LSLO and SDOCT images can be obtained non mydriatically with less than 600 microwatts of broadband illumination at 15 frames sec. The LSLO SDOCT hybrid instrument can have important applications in clinical ophthalmic diagnostics and emergency medicine. The fusion of the wide field LSLO retinal imaging with SDOCT imaging can enhance the clinician s ability to quickly assess pathologies in linked complementary views with a simple compact instrument. Knowledge of the OCT scan coordinates within the live fundus image to guide scan acquisition and interpretation can enhance the diagnostic utility of OCT. For example non mydriatic live retinal imaging no pupil dilation which requires no more than a 3 mm pupil in the human eye usually depends on the use of NIR illumination to inhibit the pupil closure reflex. This is the case for the broadband SLD illumination beam from 800 nm to 900 nm which for most subjects is still visible at 

In one aspect there is an apparatus that includes a housing and a system of optical components disposed in the housing. The optical components are capable of operating in a LSLO mode and an OCT mode. The optical components include a first source to provide a first beam of light for the OCT mode a second source to provide a second beam of light for the LSLO mode and a first optic. In the OCT mode the first optic scans using a first surface of the first optic the first beam of light along a retina of an eye in a first dimension and descans using the first surface a first light returning from the eye in the first dimension to a detection system. In the LSLO mode the first optic passes the second beam of light to the retina of the eye through a second surface of the first optic.

In another aspect there is an apparatus that includes a housing and a system of optical components disposed in the housing capable of operating in an LSLO mode and an OCT mode. The system of optical components includes a first optic. In the OCT mode the first optic redirects using a first surface of the optic a beam of light from a first source to an object to be scanned. The first optic also uses the first surface to redirect light returning from the object scanned. A second surface of the first optic redirects light dispersed by a grating to a detection system. In the LSLO mode the first optic passes light returning from the object scanned to the detection system.

In another aspect there is a method for imaging a retina of an eye. The method includes acquiring an OCT image of the eye by receiving on a one dimensional detector a first light returning from the eye. A first electrical signal responsive to the first light is provided at each of a plurality of locations along the one dimensional detector. The first electrical signal is combined with a reference signal from a reference arm. The first electrical signal and the reference signal is associated with the OCT image of the eye. In the LSLO mode the method includes acquiring a LSLO image of the eye by receiving on the one dimensional detector a second light returning from the eye. A second electrical signal is provided which is responsive to the second light at each of a plurality of locations along the one dimensional detector. The second electrical signal is indicative of the LSLO image of the eye. The method also includes interleaving acquisition of the OCT image of the eye and the LSLO image of the eye.

In yet another aspect there is an optical apparatus including a line scanning laser ophthalmoscope LSLO mode and an optical coherence tomography OCT mode. The optical apparatus includes a first source of a beam of light suitable for use in the LSLO mode and a second source of a beam of light suitable for use in the OCT mode. A lens receives the beam of light from the first source and provides a line of light for use in the LSLO mode. The apparatus also includes an optic. In the OCT mode the optic redirects a beam of light from the second source to an object to be scanned using a first surface of the optic. The optic uses the first surface to redirect the light returning from the object scanned and uses the second surface of the optic to redirect light dispersed into an OCT line configuration by a grating to a detection system. In the LSLO mode the optic passes light returning from the object scanned to the detection system. The optic apparatus also includes a scanner. In the LSLO mode the scanner scans a first portion of an object with the line of light in a direction perpendicular to the line through at least one lens. The scanner also descans light returning from the object in a LSLO line configuration. In the OCT mode the scanner scans a second portion of the object with the beam of light and redirects light returning from the object. The detection system includes a one dimensional detector. In the LSLO mode the detection system receives the light descanned from the object and provides an electrical signal responsive to the light descanned at each of a plurality of locations along the LSLO line configuration. The electrical signal is indicative of a LSLO image of the object. In the OCT mode the detection system receives the light redirected from the mirror and provides an electrical signal responsive to the light redirected at each of a plurality of locations along the OCT line configuration. The detection system combines the electrical signal with a reference signal from a reference arm. The electrical signal and the reference signal is associated with an OCT image of the object.

In another aspect there is a method of imaging a retina of an eye. The method includes combining an optical path of an OCT imager and an optical path of a LSLO imager using a system of optics. A single detector is used to switch between an OCT mode and a LSLO mode. The method also acquires images of the retina while switching between the OCT mode and the LSLO mode.

In another aspect there is an optical apparatus that includes a housing and a system of optical components disposed in the housing capable of operating in a line scanning laser ophthalmoscope LSLO mode and an optical coherence tomography OCT mode. The system of optical components includes a lens for converting between the LSLO mode and the OCT mode. The lens is movable between a first lens position and a second lens position. In the first lens position the lens receives a beam of light from a source and provides a line of light for scanning an object in the LSLO mode. In the second lens position the lens removed from a path of the beam of light so that the source provides the beam of light for scanning the object in the OCT mode. The optical apparatus also includes a mirror for converting between the LSLO mode and the OCT mode. The mirror is movable between a first mirror position and a second mirror position. In the first position the mirror is removed from a path of light returning from the object. In the second position the mirror receives the light returning from the object.

In other examples any of the aspects above or any apparatus or method described herein can include one or more of the following features.

In some embodiments the first optic includes a beam separator having an aperture that in the LSLO mode redirects the second light returning from the eye to the detection system. In some embodiments the optical system can include a dichroic beamsplitter. In some embodiments the first optic is a dichroic beam splitter. The dichroic beam splitter can be disposed in the aperture. In the OCT mode the dichroic beam splitter disposed in the aperature uses the first surface of the dichroic beam splitter to scan the first beam of light along the retina of the eye in the first dimension and uses the first surface to descan the first light returning from the eye in the first dimension to the detection system. In the LSLO mode the second beam of light to the retina of the eye passes through the second surface of the dichroic beam splitter.

In some embodiments the system of optical components also includes a second optic that in the OCT mode scans the first beam of light along the retina in a second dimension and descans the first light returning from the eye in the second dimension. The second optic can direct the first light returning from the eye to the first surface of the first optic and to the detection system. In the LSLO mode the second optic can scan the second beam of light in a line focus configuration along the retina in the second dimension and descan the second light returning from the eye in the second dimension. The second optic can direct the light returning from the eye to the first surface of the first optic and to the detection system. In some embodiments the second optic includes a scanning mirror.

In some embodiments the system of optical components also includes a third optic. In the OCT mode the third optic can use a first surface of the third optic to direct the first beam of light to the first optic. The third optic can also use the first surface of the first optic to redirect the first light returning from the eye scanned. In some embodiments the third optic uses a second surface of the third optic to redirect the first light dispersed by a grating to the detection system. In the LSLO mode the third optic can pass the second light returning from the eye to the detection system. The third optic can include a dichroic beam splitter.

In some embodiments the housing is adapted to be handheld. The first source and the second source can be the same source of light. In some embodiments the imaging apparatus includes a controller associated with the detection system that switches the apparatus between the OCT and the LSLO mode. The controller associated with the detection system can also interleave the acquisition of the OCT image of the eye and the LSLO image of the eye by the detection system. In some embodiments the OCT mode includes a spectral domain OCT mode.

In some embodiments the system of optical components can include a scanner. In the LSLO mode the scanner can scan through at least one lens a first portion of the object with the line of light in a direction perpendicular to the line. The scanner can also descan light returning from the object in the LSLO line configuration. In the OCT mode the scanner can scan a second portion of the object with the beam of light and redirect light returning from the object.

In some embodiments the system of optical components includes a grating spectrograph used only in the OCT mode to disperse light returning from the object into an OCT line configuration.

The apparatus can have a first and second source of light that generates a first and second light beam. The first and second light beam can be used for the LSLO mode and the OCT mode respectively. In some embodiments the detection system includes a one dimensional detector. In the OCT mode the one dimensional detector can receive the first light returning from the eye in the first dimension and provide a first electrical signal responsive to the first light at each of a plurality of locations along the one dimensional detector. The first electrical signal can be combined with a reference signal from a reference arm. In some embodiments the first electrical signal and the reference signal is associated with an OCT image of the eye. In the LSLO mode the one dimensional detector can receive a second light returning from the eye and provide a second electrical signal responsive to the second light at each of a plurality of locations along the one dimensional detector. In some embodiments the second electrical signal is indicative of a LSLO image of the eye.

In some embodiments the system of optical components includes a source of the beam of light used in the LSLO mode and the OCT mode. The detection system can include a one dimensional detector. In the LSLO mode the detector can receive light descanned from the object and provide an electrical signal responsive to the light descanned at each of a plurality of locations along a LSLO line configuration. In some embodiments the electrical signal is indicative of a LSLO image of the object. In the OCT mode the detector can receive light redirected by the mirror and provide an electrical signal responsive to the light redirected at each of a plurality of locations along an OCT line configuration. The electrical signal can be combined with a reference signal from a reference arm. In some embodiments the electrical signal and the reference signal is associated with an OCT image of the object.

In some embodiments the apparatus includes a controller associated with the detection system that switches the apparatus between the OCT mode and the LSLO mode. The controller associated with the detection system can interleave acquisition of the OCT image of the eye and the LSLO image of the eye by the detection system. In some embodiments the controller can interleave a first series of images of the retina acquired in the OCT mode and a second series of images of the retina acquired in the LSLO mode.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention can become apparent from the following drawings and description all of which illustrate the principles of the invention by way of example only.

When the imaging apparatus is operating in the OCT mode the beam of light from the OCT light source travels to a first surface of the optical element which directs the light to a first surface of optical element . The line can be redirected to optical element which scans the beam of light along the retina of the eye . In some embodiments the light travels through a system of scanning lenses which adjusts the focus of the light from the OCT source . The light returning from the eye can be descanned by the optical element and directed to the first surface of the optical element . The first surface of optical element directs the light to a waveguide that delivers the light to a detector arm. The light is dispersed by a grating and the dispersed light is redirected by the second surface of the optical element to an imaging lens that focus the light on a detection system .

When the imaging apparatus is operating in the LSLO mode a cylindrical lens can be used to fan out the beam of light from the LSLO source into a line on the retina of the eye . The line of light from the cylindrical lens passes through a second surface of the optical element . Optical element scans the beam of light on the retina of the eye . Lenses can focus the light on the retina of the eye . The light returning form the eye can be descanned by the optical element and redirected by the first surface of optical element . In the LSLO mode the light passes through the optical element and a system of imaging lenses focuses the light on the detection device .

In some embodiments a single source can be split to form the OCT source and the LSLO source . The single source can be switched between an LSLO mode and an OCT mode to deliver light as the LSLO source or the OCT source respectively. In some embodiments the OCT source and the LSLO source are two distinct sources.

A single broadband source can be split between two input fibers or with dual super luminescent diode SLD sources and which can be modulated. A single broadband source can also be switched between two input fibers or with dual SLD sources and which can be modulated. A broadband superluminescent diode can reduce speckle noise in an SLO image. Wavelength separation can be achieved by modulating the dual input fiber coupled sources electronically either as dual SLD sources directly or by separate fiber optic switching or modulation of sub bands of a single source. This approach is still compatible with single source operation but wavelength or polarization separation can be employed along with source switching or modulation.

The OCT source can be a near infrared source such as a 830 nm laser diode an 830 nm SLD or an 800 nm SLD with 30 nm bandwidth available from Exalos Inc. The LSLO source can be a substantially point source of light such as an infrared laser or a super luminescent diode. For example the LSLO source can be 905 nm SLD or a 920 nm SLD. In one embodiment the OCT source is a broadband super luminescent diode SLD 37MP Superlum Russia with 830 nm central wavelength and approximately 50 nm bandwidth and the LSLO source is a 920 nm SLD QSDM 920 2 Q Photonics with about 35 nm FWHM and 2 mW output power. In some embodiments the OCT source is a SLD centered at 830 nm with a spectral bandwidth of about 60 nm that achieves approximately 4 m depth resolution in the eye.

In some embodiments optical element is a scanning mirror. In certain embodiments optical element is a dichroic beam splitter. Optical element can scan and de scan OCT light and LSLO light on or along the eye . In the OCT mode optical element scans one dimension of the raster scan. In the LSLO mode optical element scans a line of light along the eye . In some embodiments optical element is a scanning mirror. In certain embodiments optical element is a dichroic beam splitter. Optical element can scan and descan OCT light on or along the eye . In the OCT mode optical element scans the second dimension of the retina scan. In the LSLO mode optical element can be stationary. Optical element reflects LSLO light to optical element .

Optical element can be a beam separator with an aperture. A dichroic beam splitter can be disposed in the aperture. In the LSLO mode the dichroic beam splitter in the aperture passes the beam of light from the LSLO source through a second surface of the dichroic beam splitter to the retina of the eye. When operating in the LSLO mode optical element can also be a beam separator that separates light directed to the eye from light returning from the eye and can redirect the light returning from the eye to the detection system. In the OCT mode the dichroic beam splitter which can be disposed in the aperture of optical element can scan using the first surface the beam of light along the retina of the eye in the first dimension and descan using the first surface the light returning from the eye in the first dimension to the detection system. In a preferred embodiment optical element is used for scanning in the OCT mode but is not used for scanning in the LSLO mode.

In some embodiments optical element is a dichroic beam splitter that reflects OCT light in the OCT mode. Optical element can also be a dichroic beam splitter that passes LSLO light in the LSLO mode.

In some embodiments the grating is a transmission grating. The grating can be a holographic diffraction grating e.g. a grating available from Wasatch Photonics with 1200 lines per mm . The detection device can be a linear array detector. For example the detection device can be a CCD array or a CMOS detector.

The imaging apparatus can run in three modes LSLO mode only OCT mode only and frame interleaved LSLO OCT mode. The detection device can record a sequence of OCT images and LSLO images. In some embodiments no moving parts are required to change imaging modes a simple software switch controls the hardware configuration for each imaging mode on the fly . When switched the desired source can be turned on and the other off and the camera gain is changed if necessary as are the transverse scan parameters of the data acquisition card. Thus the LSLO and OCT systems can be integrated in a unique manner with a common detection path that conserves sub system capabilities and minimizes size cost and complexity.

In some embodiments an OCT image is recorded first. In other embodiments a LSLO image is recorded first. In some embodiments the detection device in the OCT mode receives light returning from the eye in the first dimension and provides a first electrical responsive to the first light at a plurality of locations along a one dimensional detector. The electrical signal can be combined with a reference signal from a reference arm where the first electrical signal and the reference signal is associated with an OCT image of the eye. In some embodiments the detection device in the LSLO mode receives light returning from the eye and provides a second electrical signal responsive to the second light at a plurality of locations along the one dimensional detector. The second electrical signal can be indicative of an LSLO image of the eye.

The CCD array can be a line scan camera e.g. Atmel AVIIVA M2 CL 1014 or an array available from Basler Vision Technologies . The CCD array can have 1024 detector pixels with a 14 m pitch and can operate at a maximum 60 MHz data rate. The output of the camera can be connected to a camera link board NI PCI 1429 . The sampled data can be transferred continuously to computer memory. A to or k interpolation can be performed. A discrete Fourier transform can be performed on each set of 1024 data points acquired by the CCD array to produce an axial depth profile of the sample A line .

The CMOS detector can be a linear array detector. In one embodiment the detector is a 512 pixel 21 m pitch linear CMOS detector with active reset technology with high sensitivity and low read noise e.g. available from Fairchild Imaging . In one embodiment the detector is a 2048 pixel 7 m pitch CMOS detector with line rates to 40 kHz.

In some embodiments a controller is associated with the detection system that switches the imaging apparatus between the OCT mode and the LSLO mode. In some embodiments imaging modes can be switched fast enough to interleave LSLO and SDOCT images. The images can be interleaved at any desired rate and in any desired sequence or combination using software control with no mechanical mode switching transients. The device can rapidly toggle back and forth between LSLO mode and SDOCT mode frame by frame coordinated by the scanning and signal processing electronics e.g. to give the appearance that both operate at once SDOCT on the forward scan and LSLO on the flyback of the scan.

Components of the imaging apparatus can be contained within a housing . In some embodiments the housing can be compact and hand held. The OCT system can be a SDOCT.

In the OCT mode the first surface of the optical element scans the light traveling to the eye in a raster scan and redirects the light returning from the eye . The optical element can descan the light. In the LSLO mode light from source travels through the second surface of optical element to the retina of the eye. The light can travel to optical element which can be driven by a galvanometer that drives the optical element in a direction along the y axis. The scanning lenses can include a objective lenses and an ophthalmoscopic lens .

The imaging lens can be a system of imaging lenses. For example a plurality of objectives A D can gather light returning from the eye in the OCT mode or the LSLO mode and direct the light to the detection system .

A collimating lens can be used to adjust the optical elements to maximize the quality of the image. In the LSLO mode light from the LSLO source can be directed through a waveguide to a coupler and from the coupler to a first collimating lens which directs the light to the cylindrical lens .

In some embodiments an SDOCT system includes light source and a fiber optic interferometer . The fiber optic interferometer can include a coupler that receives and or directs light to four arms the illumination arm the sample arm the reference arm and the detection arm. In some embodiments the coupler is a 50 50 or a 80 20 fiber optic beam splitter. Light from the light source can be directed to the coupler via waveguide . The coupler can divide the light and direct a portion to the sample arm via waveguide and a portion to the reference arm via waveguide . A fraction of the light transmitted to the sample arm can be backscattered from the sample and passed back into the coupler . A fraction of the light transmitted to the reference arm can be backscattered from an optical delay line ODL passed back into the coupler .

The optical delay line can include a mirror placed on a translation stage and a neutral density filter that adjusts this arm s power level. The optical delay line can be placed in the reference arm to adjust the length of this arm to match the length of the sample arm. The polarization of the reference beam can be adjusted with a paddle polarization controller to match the polarization of the light from the sample arm so that polarization changes caused by bending and rotation of the optical fiber in both the sample and reference arms do not wash out the interference fringes. The coupler can mix the reference beam with the light returning from the sample arm. In some embodiments this light passes back to the input arms being equally split between the detector arm and the illumination arm. The light is sent to the detector arm through a waveguide . An isolator can be placed in the illumination arm to prevent this light from going back to the light source . Light from waveguide can be directed to a second collimating lens via a coupler .

The SDOCT system also includes a spectrometer system. The light directed to the detector arm from waveguide passes through coupler and to a third collimating lens . The light is dispersed by a grating and received by the detection device .

In certain embodiments the detection device is operated in a high gain mode when the imaging apparatus is operating in LSLO mode and a low gain mode when the imaging apparatus is operating in OCT mode. The OCT is an interferometric measurement which functions with the least noise when the amplifying reference beam power is set to the maximum value that will not saturate the camera at its lowest gain sensitivity setting. This can give the maximum possible fringe amplitude OCT signal relative to camera noise and digitization levels. The LSLO is a direct imaging method that can rely on high camera sensitivity to image the weak fundus reflectance. In some embodiments the camera gain setting for the LSLO is the maximum value available that does not saturate in order to maintain the best digital resolution over the dynamic range. In some embodiments the optimal camera gains for the OCT and the LSLO are different and require the gain to be toggled electronically between two values in switching between imaging modes so that the performance is optimized for each mode. Alternatively the LSLO input beam power can be set higher to account for the required sensitivity difference e.g. up to a limit set by ANSI eye safety standards . The gain of cameras e.g. the ATMEL line scan camera can be changed with serial digital commands or more directly with digital control signals synchronized to the frame rates.

The timing diagram shows the combined LSLO OCT mode when OCT data can be acquired. A comparison of the OCT source modulation and the LSLO source modulation shows that the OCT light source is turned on while the LSLO source is turned off . In some embodiments the amplitude of the y galvanometer versus the amplitude of the x galvanometer over time is such that the y galvanometer moves to the selected y coordinate and the x galvanometer scans the OCT beam over a smaller distance. In diagram the distance covered by the LSLO raster scan is compared to the distance covered by the OCT scan .

A single source can be used to supply light in both the LSLO and OCT mode. In some embodiments optical element allows both the OCT and LSLO beam to travel through an aperture . In the OCT mode the optic can permit the returning light to pass through the same path e.g. through the aperture but in the LSLO mode directs the beam to the detection system . For example a surface above below or surrounding the aperture can can reflect the light in the LSLO mode. The optical element can be a mirror. The same detection system can also be used for both the LSLO and OCT modes.

In the LSLO mode in the first lens position the lens receives a beam of light from the source and provides a line of light for scanning an object. The beam travels through optical element to optical element which scans through a scanning lens es the eye . The light returning from the eye can be descanned by optical element and directed to the detection device by the optical element . In the LSLO mode the flip mirror is flipped out.

In the OCT mode in the second lens position the lens is removed from the path of the beam of light so that the source provides the beam of light for scanning the object. The beam of light can travel through optical element to optical element which scans the light in a raster pattern over a portion of the eye . The light returning from the eye is directed by optical element to optical element . The light can pass back through the pupil which functions as an interferometer. The light travels through the sample arm to the coupler which mixes the beam with the light from a reference arm as shown in . A part of the mixed beam from the coupler is sent to the detector arm where the beam is dispersed by the grating . In the OCT mode the flip mirror directs the light dispersed by the grating to the detection device .

Without the cylindrical lens in the beam path and the mirror flipped in the system can operate as a high resolution 30 fps SDOCT scanner showing cross sectional image of the retina at selected planes. With the lens in place and the mirror flipped out the SLD beam can be fanned into a focused line and the system can be converted into a quasi confocal LSLO en face wide field retinal imager. In some embodiments the actuated cylindrical lens and mirror permit mode switching within less than about 1 frame period. The SLD source module can be integrated into the optics package. A tether can be used connect to an external source and power module. In certain embodiments batteries can be used.

In the LSLO mode the coupler directs light to the lens which directs light to optical element . Optical element directs light to optical element which can scan the beam of radiation on the eye Light returning from the eye passes by and or around optical element and through pupil stop . Flip mirror is removed from the optical path.

In the OCT mode lens is in position e.g. it is removed from the beam path . The light is directed by optical element to optical element . Light returning from the eye is reflected by optical element back into waveguide . The light emerges from waveguide and is dispersed by grating before it is reflected by mirror to the the detection device .

Optical element can be a mirror or prism. Optical element can be a pupil stop and or a pupil aperture. The subdivision of the pupil aperture can allow the efficient integration of the subsystems and elimination of unwanted reflections e.g. corneal reflections . In some embodiments the scanning optical delay in the OCT reference arm compensates for pupil position eye length and or focus. With a flip mirror both imaging systems can use the same linear array detector .

The linear image sensor the spectrometer the image acquisition and the processing electronics can reduce the cost and complexity of a hybrid imaging system. shows a block diagram of an exemplary chipset . A stand alone FPGA DSP electronics platform e.g. not tethered to a PC can be used for real time LSLO and OCT signal processing and integrated display. The chipset can include a camera link a signal processor a video encoder memory a storage module a USB controller and a user interface .

The camera link can be coupled to the detection device . The video encoder can be coupled to a display device . The memory can be SDRAM flash memory and or any other suitable memory. The storage device can be a compact flash smart media SD or MMC. The USB controller can include a USB interface.

The user interface and display device can display an LSLO image and a OCT image separately or simultaneously depending on the imaging mode and the OCT scan can be positioned anywhere in the LSLO raster. Other controls for OCT processing display and saving or streaming to disk are in a tab box in the display. The raw spectrum and processed profile can be shown and the integrated fixation target can be displayed.

In some embodiments an FPGA camera board with integrated SVGA LCD display driver for a CMOS line array can obviate the need for a PC and frame grabber tethered to the optical scanner head. In certain embodiments real time FFTs on SDOCT line scan data and display can be performed using the signal processor chipset e.g. a DM642 fixed point DSP or an FPGA . The detection device can be connected to the signal processor via camera link RX Chipset . A suitable signal processing approach or algorithm with associated hardware and software for SDOCT signal processing algorithm can include such an interpolation to k space process. Dispersion compensation can be incorporated in the software for real time operation.

LSLO guided 2D SDOCT sections and localized 3D micro scan SDOCT imaging modalities can be used as part of the imaging mode control software. In some embodiments by overlaying a fiducial line or box over the live LSLO image display which represents the length position and orientation of the SDOCT scan s to be captured in the next frame s the operator can precisely scan selected retinal features at the desired resolution. 3D structure can be visualized by sweeping the line scan manually push broom style.

In some embodiments local 3D images can be captured and displayed e.g. a micro scan option . In some embodiments a resonant scanner is used to perform a low speed small amplitude scan. The resonant scanner can be added to the SDOCT beam path orthogonal to the main galvo scanner. Instead of performing a single long linear scan of 5 mm or more when a very small feature such as a laser lesion is of interest the system can be commanded to perform many smaller scans in a raster pattern perhaps twenty or more 0.5 mm B scans with 10 micron pixellation in x 50 A scans and 25 m pixels in y 20 B scans . Thus the entire raster can include 1000 A scans which can be displayed as one composite B scan. 500 500 micron 2 mm high resolution SDOCT volume images can be provided. Such an approach can be used for elucidating columnar laser damage or localized pathology. A fiducial box can be overlaid in the live LSLO image for this selectable mode with real time display of the successive SDOCT stripe images.

Estimates of 3D micro scan speed can be obtained from digital signal processor benchmark data. The 1024 point FFT benchmark for the DM642 is less than about 16 s per FFT. The CCD array or CMOS detector can have line rates in excess of 25 Klps. At this line rate the resulting frame rate for 1000 A scans of the Micro scan raster 50 20 is about 25 fps 0.04 sec frame . Real time 3D micro scans with rapid intuitive display of 3D data can be performed. In some embodiments a FPGA signal processor is utilized to provide a scan showing local 3D structures.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific illustrative embodiments it should be understood that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

