---

title: Outer loop power control in a wireless communication system
abstract: In an embodiment, an access network receives a message associated with a given user equipment (UE). The received message can be an uplink message received from the given UE itself (e.g., a measurement report, a cell update message), or can be a downlink message for transmission to the given UE (e.g., a call announcement message). The access network determines that the received message is associated with a communication session of a given type (e.g., a delay-sensitive communication session). The access network selects an uplink initial signal-to-interference ratio (SIR) target for the given UE based on the determination. The access network also starts a timer having a given expiration period based on the determination. The access network refrains from updating the uplink initial SIR target for the given UE at least until the timer expires.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08514733&OS=08514733&RS=08514733
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08514733
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100518
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 180 639 entitled OUTER LOOP POWER CONTROL FOR DELAY SENSITIVE APPLICATIONS filed May 22 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment an access network receives a message associated with a given user equipment UE . The received message can be an uplink message received from the given UE itself e.g. a measurement report a cell update message or can be a downlink message for transmission to the given UE e.g. a call announcement message . The access network determines that the received message is associated with a communication session of a given type e.g. a delay sensitive communication session . The access network selects an uplink initial signal to interference ratio SIR target for the given UE based on the determination. The access network also starts a timer having a given expiration period based on the determination. The access network refrains from updating the uplink initial SIR target for the given UE at least until the timer expires.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via an Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the call.

User Equipments UEs in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN e.g. the RAN may be in either an idle mode or a radio resource control RRC connected mode.

Based on UE mobility and activity while in a RRC connected mode the RAN may direct UEs to transition between a number of RRC sub states namely CELL PCH URA PCH CELL FACH and CELL DCH states which may be characterized as follows 

Accordingly URA PCH State or CELL PCH State corresponds to a dormant state where the UE periodically wakes up to check a paging indicator channel PICH and if needed the associated downlink paging channel PCH and it may enter CELL FACH state to send a Cell Update message for the following event cell reselection periodical cell update uplink data transmission paging response re entered service area. In CELL FACH State the UE may send messages on the random access channel RACH and may monitor a forward access channel FACH . The FACH carries downlink communication from the RAN and is mapped to a secondary common control physical channel S CCPCH . From CELL FACH State the UE may enter CELL DCH state after a traffic channel TCH has been obtained based on messaging in CELL FACH state. A table showing conventional dedicated traffic channel DTCH to transport channel mappings in radio resource control RRC connected mode is in Table 1 as follows 

Referring to UE determines whether to conduct a GPRS communication session . For example the determination of may correspond to the startup of a push to talk PTT application on UE if the GPRS communication session corresponds to a group PTT call e.g. a multicast call etc. . If UE determines to conduct a GPRS communication session UE is required to activate a PDP context for the session. Thus UE configures an Activate PDP Context Request message that includes information related to UE for the GPRS communication session . For example the Activate PDP Context Request message may be configured to include the Requested QoS for the session an access point name APN of the GGSN e.g. which may be obtained after a DNS query etc. If the PDP Address to which packets are addressed during the GPRS communication session is dynamically assigned by the GGSN in the Activate PDP Context Request message the PDP Address field is empty because the PDP context for UE s session has not yet been activated.

After configuring the Activate PDP Context Request message in UE sends the configured Activate PDP Request message to the SGSN via the RAN . The SGSN receives the Activate PDP Context Request message and sends a Create PDP Context Request message to the GGSN . The GGSN receives the Create PDP Context Request message from the SGSN and activates a PDP context for UE s communication session . Both SGSN and GGSN may retrieve the subscribed QoS profile from HLR and modify the requested QoS for the PDP context. The activation of the PDP context in includes assigning a PDP address for UE s communication session e.g. an IPv6 address . The GGSN sends a Create PDP Context Accept message back to the SGSN which indicates that the Create PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication session. The SGSN sends a RAB assignment request for UE s communication session based on the PDP context to the RAN . For example the SGSN may instruct the RAN with regard to a given level of QoS resources for allocating to UE during the communication session using the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment Request which contains the QoS requirements on UE s communication link. The RAN receives the RAB assignment request and sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication session based on the RAB parameters . UE receives the Radio Bearer Setup message configures the Radio Bearer accordingly and sends a Radio Bearer Setup Complete message to the RAN . The RAN then sends a RAB Assignment Response message back to the SGSN . At this point the SGSN sends an Activate PDP Context Accept message to UE via the RAN which indicates that the Activate PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication session.

After receiving the Activate PDP Context Accept message in e.g. which conveys the PDP address to be used for the session UE may begin to send and receive messages related to the established communication session .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art while the PDP context can indicate the PDP type e.g. primary or secondary PDP parameters e.g. ToS APN QoS PDP address etc. identifiers e.g. NSAPI TI TEID etc. and or other parameters conventional PDP contexts do not include information related to the application or service associated with the GPRS communication session being activated and are supported by UE . For example if the GPRS communication session corresponds to the signaling of a PTT call that UE wishes to initiate or join the signaling of PTT call is a highly delay sensitive interactive application. However the SGSN and GGSN may recognize that the application is an originating interactive call but do not necessarily have special knowledge with regard to the nature of the application and as such do not know that the session is delay or time sensitive. Thus the SGSN and GGSN do not necessarily grant aggressive resources to UE which can degrade performance for UE s communication session.

Embodiments which will be described below in more detail are directed to conveying application or service specific information from a UE requesting PDP context activation to the RAN SGSN and or GGSN and storing the conveyed application or service specific information in the PDP context. The RAN SGSN and or GGSN may then allocate resources to the requesting UE for the communication session based at least in part on the application or service specific information.

Accordingly illustrates a process for activating a PDP context according to an embodiment of the invention. In particular illustrates a manner of activating a PDP context for a given GPRS communication service and or application that is configured to include application or service specific information related to potential sessions invoked for the service and or application.

Referring to UE determines whether to active a PDP context . For example the determination of may be performed when UE powers up even if UE does not wish to immediately join or initiate a PTT call or other delay sensitive application such that UE determines to activate the PDP context for the application and or service even in the absence of an immediate desire to conduct a communication session for the application and or service. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the PDP context activation may be a preemptive activation to a particular service or application that occurs prior to a setup of a communication session involving the particular service or application. For example the preemptive activation may occur when UE powers up such that the RAN SGSN and or GGSN is aware that UE is active for the particular service and or application even when UE is not currently engaged in or requesting initiation of a communication session.

After determining to activate the PDP context for the given GPRS communication session service and or application in UE determines if possible application or service specific information related to the GPRS communication service and or application . As used herein application or service specific information is defined as any information related to a service or application supported by UE . With regard to the group PTT call example the application or service specific information may correspond to recognition that UE is a group member of one or more PTT groups.

In UE determines whether to convey the application or service specific information determined in to the SGSN and or the GGSN . For example if the GPRS communication service and or application are not delay sensitive then UE may determine not to send application specific information in and the process may advance to of as described above. Otherwise if UE determines to convey the application or service specific information determined in to the SGSN and or the GGSN e.g. if the GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive etc. then the process advances to .

In UE configures an Activate PDP Context Request message that includes information related to UE for the GPRS communication service and or application similar to of . For example the Activate PDP Context Request message may be configured to include UE s an access point name APN of the GGSN e.g. which may be obtained after a DNS query etc. In the Activate PDP Context Request message the PDP Address field to which packets are addressed during sessions invoked for the GPRS communication service and or application is empty because the PDP context for UE s service and or application has not yet been activated.

However in of the Activate PDP Context Request message is further configured to indicate the application or service specific information related to the GPRS communication service and or application that is determined in of . The application or service specific information can be included within the Activate PDP Context Request message in a number of ways. For example one or more fields within the Activate PDP Context Request message itself can be modified to include a flag that indicates the application or service specific information.

In a more specific example UE can configure the Activate PDP Context Request message e.g. for primary PDP context and or the Activate Secondary PDP Context Request e.g. for secondary PDP context in to include special QoS configuration s such that the GGSN and SGSN can uniquely identify UE within the operator s network based on the special configuration. Also since the SGSN will pass the QoS to the RNC at the RAN in the RAB Assignment Request message utilizing the RAB Parameter field e.g. see below the RNC or RAN can also identify UE based on the special QoS configuration and hence allocate UTRAN resources required by the multimedia application e.g. aggressive UTRAN DRX CYCLE which is used to determine the paging cycle at UE .

In yet another example in UE can select a reserved NSAPI e.g. such as 0 to 4 which are currently prohibited and not used by standard and include the reserved NSAPI in the Activate PDP Context Request and or Activate Secondary PDP Context Request. As in the previous example the GGSN and SGSN will read the message s and be able to uniquely identify the reserved NSAPI as being for a particular multimedia application and or service e.g. such as one that is known to require a high level or aggressive level of QoS . Also since the RAB ID in the RAB Assignment Request e.g. see below is mandated to be the same value of NSAPI the RAN can identify UE based on the RAB ID.

In an alternative embodiment special or predetermined bits can be embedded in the NSAPI information element IE . The NSAPI IE is 8 bits where the first 4 LSB are used to carry the NSAPI and the last 4 LSB are spare bits. Thus in this example UE can utilize the 4 spare bits in the NSAPI IE for the SGSN and GGSN to identify UE . Since RAB ID IE NSAPI IE per standard the RAN can identify UE and can assign aggressive UTRAN DRX CYCLE to UE .

In yet another alternative example an APN is a string parameter included in the Activate PDP Context Request used to select the GGSN . Accordingly in UE can put a keyword in the APN for identifying UE has having a high QoS requirement. The GGSN and SGSN can receive the APN in the Activate PDP Context Request. However the RAN may not necessarily be informed of UE s high QoS requirement for a particular application and or service in this example e.g. although the RAN can be instructed to allocate an aggressive QoS setting via the RAB Assignment Request message from the SGSN in below . For example the SGSN may override the Requested QoS in the Activate PDP Context Request and can send the new or overridden QoS to the serving RNC at the RAN within the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment message. The new QoS may contain configurations or QoS attributes not in the Requested QoS e.g. for interactive class traffic the attribute of allocation retention priority ARP can only be assigned by the SGSN GGSN for the serving RNC to uniquely identify UE subscribing to a particular application e.g. a PTT service or more specifically the application s RAB.

After configuring the Activate PDP Context Request message in UE sends the configured Activate PDP Request message to the SGSN via the RAN . The SGSN receives the Activate PDP Context Request message and sends a Create PDP Context Request message which also includes the application or service specific information to the GGSN . The GGSN receives the Create PDP Context Request message from the SGSN and activates a PDP context for UE s communication service and or application . The activation of the PDP context in includes assigning a PDP address for UE s communication service and or application e.g. an IPv6 address . The activation of also includes storing within the PDP context the application or service specific information for UE s communication service and or application.

The GGSN sends a Create PDP Context Accept message back to the SGSN which indicates that the Create PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address and application or service specific information for UE s communication service and or application. The SGSN generates the RAB assignment request and includes within the RAB assignment request information from which the RAN e.g. more specifically the serving RNC at the RAN can determine the application or service specific information of UE . The SGSN then sends the RAB assignment request to the RAN . For example in the RAB assignment request the SGSN may instruct the RAN with regard to a given level of QoS resources for allocating to UE during sessions invoked for the communication service and or application using the RAB Parameter field in the RAB Assignment Request which contains the QoS requirements on UE s communication link. If the application or service specific information indicates to the SGSN in this example that a high level of QoS resources are required the SGSN can instruct the RAN to allocate a higher amount of QoS resources to UE than would otherwise be allocated in . In another example as discussed above with respect to through a frequency at which UE wakes up e.g. a DRX cycle can be increased if the application or service specific information indicates to the SGSN in this example that UE s communication service and or application may benefit from a more aggressive paging cycle due to delay sensitivity of the service and or application.

As discussed above with respect to the characteristics normally associated with CELL PCH state and or URA PCH state e.g. dormant states a UE in either of these states uses a given DRX cycle or paging interval for monitoring the selected PCH via an associated PICH. Thus at each DRX cycle a UE in CELL PCH and or URA PCH state wakes up and checks a PICH and or PCH to determine whether that particular UE is being paged. Conventionally the same DRX cycle is used for all UEs in either CELL PCH or URA PCH state. In at least one embodiment of the invention however a more aggressive or shorter DRX cycle or paging cycle can be used for UEs that subscribe to a delay sensitive GPRS communication service or application as indicated by the application or service specific information from UE .

Accordingly in the serving RNC at the RAN evaluates the application or service specific information included in the Activate PDP Context Request message from UE e.g. based on RAB parameters in the RAB assignment request that indicate the application or service specific information to trigger special handling protocols by the RAN to determine if UE s GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive. If the serving RNC of the RAN determines that UE s GPRS communication service and or application is not delay sensitive in then the process advances to and the RAN sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication service and or application that assigns a default or generic DRX cycle for UE to use during a dormant state e.g. a URA PCH or CELL PCH state based on the RAB parameters . Alternatively if the serving RNC of the RAN determines that UE s GPRS communication service and or application is delay sensitive in then the process either advances to and the serving RNC of the RAN selects an aggressive DRX cycle .

Accordingly the RAN receives the RAB assignment request and sends a Radio Bearer Setup message for UE s communication service and or application based on the RAB parameters e.g. either with a normal or aggressive DRX cycle based on the evaluation of blocks through . UE receives the Radio Bearer Setup message and sends a Radio Bearer Setup Complete message to the RAN . The RAN then sends a RAB Assignment Response message back to the SGSN .

At this point the SGSN sends an Activate PDP Context Accept message to UE via the RAN which indicates that the Activate PDP Context Request message from is accepted and also conveys the PDP address for UE s communication service and or application. While not shown in after receiving the Activate PDP Context Accept message e.g. which conveys the PDP address to be used for the service and or application UE may begin to send and receive messages related to a session established for the activated GPRS communication service and or application.

Accordingly as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art shows how the RAN e.g. a serving RNC of the RAN the SGSN and or the GGSN can be informed by the UE with regard to UE being active for a particular application and or service. Also for delay sensitive applications and or services the UE can be assigned a more aggressive DRX cycle for its URA PCH state and or CELL PCH state by the RAN e.g. a serving RNC of UE such that UE can potentially be paged more quickly as will be described next with respect to .

Accordingly a process by which a server arbitrated communication session can be set up is described with respect to . In particular illustrates a server arbitrated session set up process wherein the system corresponds to a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS that uses Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA . However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how can be modified to be directed to communication sessions in accordance with protocols other than W CDMA.

Referring to through generally correspond to blocks through respectively of FIG. 4 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 645 entitled ANNOUNCING A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed May 22 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Accordingly the discussion contained herein is limited to through of for the sake of brevity.

The application server processes a call request message from a call originator UE and generates an announce message for announcing the communication session to target UE and forwards the announce message to the RAN . As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the RAN cannot simply transmit the announce message to UE immediately after receiving the call announce message from the application server . Rather the RAN waits for a next DRX cycle or paging cycle at which target UE are expected to be monitoring for pages . In an example assume that the process of has already executed for UE and that UE has been allocated an aggressive DRX paging cycle. Because it has been assumed that UE is provisioned with the more aggressive DRX paging cycle by a previous execution of the process of the RAN waits a shorter period of time in as compared to if a longer DRX cycle is used. For convenience of explanation it may be assumed that UE is in URA PCH state at this point and is monitoring the PCH and or PICH in accordance with the aggressive or shorter DRX cycle. While not shown in if UE already had an active traffic channel TCH the RAN could simply send the announce message on the already allocated TCH. After the RAN waits for the DRX cycle or paging cycle of UE a type 1 paging message is sent to UE . The remainder of may then be executed as described in the above noted U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 645 entitled ANNOUNCING A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed May 22 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In W CDMA systems the uplink UL closed loop power control CLPC conventionally consists of two parts a UL Inner loop power control ILPC and a UL Outer loop power control OLPC . The ILPC is used to control the UE transmitting power to meet a signal to interference ratio SIR target at a Node B. The ILPC can be considered a relatively fast control process e.g. 1.5 kHz . Conventionally the OLPC is used to control the reception quality in terms of the SIR target. The OLPC can be considered to be a relatively slow control process handled by the SRNC e.g. when compared to ILPC . The OLPC adjusts the SIR target considering factors such as the bit error rate BER and or block error rate BLER of the received data.

Delay sensitive low data rate applications such as PTT communications may be negatively impacted by conventional OLPC control. The slow OLPC mechanism may not satisfy latency requirement for the communication initiation e.g. a Call Request message . For example PTT communications need a high successful rate for the first UL data packet i.e. Call Request or Call Accept message after the traffic channel setup. If the initial SIR target is too low the OLPC may take a long time to adjust it to the proper value and the initial uplink data transmissions of PTT call setup messages may subject to a higher error rate. Low data activity may impact the accuracy of OLPC s estimate of the required SIR target for the uplink UL transmission. For example a target UE in a PTT session may have uplink data activity that is minimal. The OLPC may get no CRC error for long periods due to the UL data inactivity and may hence reduce the SIR target which is not desirable.

To address some of the above noted issues with the conventional OLPC techniques embodiments of the invention in the initialization of a delay sensitive application e.g. a PTT call may maintain an aggressive SIR target before the expiry a predefined timer.

For example in one scenario during a PTT system a UE may be initially dormant e.g. in URA CELL PCH state . Details of the scenario will be addressed below first when the UE is the originator and second when the UE is the target.

In a first example configuration whereby the UE is the originator the Cell Update message may be configured such that 

In a second example configuration whereby the UE is the originator the Cell Update message may be configured such that 

In each of the foregoing conditions originator target for the first scenario the RNC sets an initial UL SIR target to a higher value than the normal SIR target set for other UEs i.e. those not identified as delay sensitive e.g. PTT UE . The higher value can be a predetermined value or base on a factor such as XdB higher where Xis a configurable variable. Note the UEs can be identified using techniques discussed in the foregoing description. Additionally as illustrated in a timer e.g. can be started that is specific for the delay sensitive application details of the call flow of aside from the timer starts of and were discussed in the foregoing disclosure and will not be repeated here . The timer can be used to prevent the RAN RNC from reducing the SIR target below the initial UL SIR target before the expiry of the timer. The timer should be set appropriately so that the SIR target is kept at the higher initial value until for example the initial floor grant tone and or initial media transmission are performed. It will be appreciated that the timers are operative on the respective originator target serving RAN e.g. RNC s in the RAN to prevent the RAN RNC from resetting the UL SIR target value. Additionally as noted above this operation may only be performed only for specific identified UE s e.g. PTT UE that are identified as being delay sensitive.

If the RAN determines the cell update message to be associated with a delay sensitive and or low data rate application in B the RAN sets an initial SIR target for the UE at a higher initial level than is set for UEs that are not associated with delay sensitive applications B. For example the higher value can be a predetermined value or base on a factor such as XdB higher where Xis a configurable variable. The RAN also starts a timer in B. As will be appreciated the timer start procedure of B can correspond to or of depending on whether the RAN is responding to a cell update message from UE at or UE at . While the timer is running and before the timer expires the RAN refrains from updating the UL SIR target for the associated UE i.e. UE or UE from the higher initial SIR target B. As noted above the expiration period of the timer can be established so that the SIR target is kept at the higher initial value until for example the initial floor grant tone and or initial media transmission are performed. The RAN can then update the higher initial UL SIR target for the associated UE if necessary after the expiration of the timer B.

Alternatively while not shown explicitly in if the RAN determines that the cell update message is not associated with a delay sensitive and or low data rate application in B the RAN sets a default initial SIR target for the UE B and does not start the timer B. In this case the RAN can update the default initial UL SIR target for the associated UE if necessary without delays associated with the timer B.

In a second scenario illustrated in the UE may initially be in the CELL FACH state with a valid C RNTI and where the RAN has sent a Measurement Control message which includes configurations of Traffic Volume Measurement TVM on RACH to the UE. In this case conventionally the UE will send Measurement Report to the RAN RNC when event is triggered which occurs when the total buffer occupancy of all the RLC entities of the logical channels mapped to the measured transport channel i.e. RACH in this example is above a pre defined threshold. Note that the RLC buffer occupancy of each Radio Bearer mapped to the measured transport channel will be listed in the Measurement Report for TVM. . The details for the two UE s originator target are provided below.

In an example the determination of B can be based on a previous execution of the process of whereby the UE conveys application specific or specific information to the RAN e.g. via the SGSN and GGSN such that the RAN will be capable of associating traffic or traffic indications e.g. measurement reports associated with the UE with a delay sensitive and or low data rate application. In other words the RAN can determine the RAB ID associated with the traffic corresponds to the RAB ID contained in the RAB Assignment Request message from of and this association results in the RAN s determination that the traffic is associated with a delay sensitive and or low data rate communication session.

While not shown explicitly in if the RAN determines that the traffic or traffic indication is not associated with a delay sensitive and or low data rate application in B the RAN sets a default initial SIR target for the UE B and does not start a SIR target delay timer B. In this case the RAN can update the default initial UL SIR target for the associated UE if necessary without delays associated with the SIR target delay timer B.

Otherwise if the RAN determines that the traffic or traffic indication is associated with a delay sensitive and or low data rate application in B the RAN the RAN sets an initial SIR target for the UE at a higher initial level than is set for UEs that are not associated with delay sensitive applications B. For example the higher value can be a predetermined value or base on a factor such as XdB higher where Xis a configurable variable. The RAN also starts a timer in B. As will be appreciated the timer start procedure of B can correspond to or of depending on whether the RAN is to the measurement report from the originating UE or the call announce message for transmission to target UE . While the timer is running and before the timer expires the RAN refrains from updating the UL SIR target for the associated UE i.e. UE or UE from the higher initial SIR target B. As noted above the expiration period of the timer can be established so that the SIR target is kept at the higher initial value until for example the initial floor grant tone and or initial media transmission are performed. The RAN can then update the higher initial UL SIR target for the associated UE if necessary after the expiration of the timer B.

As used herein the RAN may include an RNC or other device that provides similar functionality. Accordingly the RNC is not specifically illustrated and in the for example but it is understood that it is one of the elements of the radio access network RAN according to embodiments of the invention.

The foregoing has addressed scenarios to maintain an initial SIR target by preventing the RAN RNC from resetting or updating the initial SIR target value for a given period of time controlled by a timer s expiration. Additionally it may be beneficial to perform actions to aid in maintaining the SIR target at appropriate levels during the delay sensitive communications. This can be particularly helpful for applications e.g. PTT where some or most of the UEs may experience limited UL traffic. Accordingly in embodiments of the invention during the course of the communications e.g. during a PTT call the UE may periodically send dummy packets to help the outer loop power control OLPC to adjust the SIR target at an appropriate level. Additionally the application server may periodically send dummy packets to trigger ACK messages from the UEs to facilitate the OLPC to adjust the SIR target to an appropriate level.

For example a dummy message may correspond to a low load message that is a lower layer message is in the sense that the RAN ignores the message e.g. does not forward the message on to another entity and simply uses the message to compute or measure transmission statistics for the UE such that the transmission power level of the UE can be updated if necessary. In another example the low load message can correspond to a relatively small application layer message e.g. an IP data packet that is relayed to a given endpoint e.g. the application server . As used herein a low load data message corresponds to any message that is relatively small in length such that the transmission statistics of a UE can be measured without causing significant interference in the UE s sector. Also the low load message can be configured to incur a low amount of processing load at the RAN e.g. based on a flag for the RAN to ignore the low load message except for computation of transmission statistics etc. .

As will be appreciated while many different types of data messages having different purposes and destinations can be transmitted by a UE so as to result in the UE s transmission statistics being updated at the RAN the low load data message may be generated only in response to the expiration of a timer which is in turn established to reduce transmission power level setpoint drift e.g. a drifting of an actual transmission power level setpoint from an ideal or appropriate transmission power level setpoint for maintaining a given success rate during data transmission . Thus the dummy message discussed herein can be distinguished from a keep alive packet for example where a packet is generated to keep a connection from being torn down e.g. generally a UE can continue to monitor the communication session without sending keep alive packets . This is not meant to imply that the generated message cannot correspond to a keep alive packet but rather that the triggering criteria for the dummy message can be transmission inactivity that may result in transmission power level setpoint drift in contrast with transmission inactivity that may result in a lost connection. Likewise the low load data message dummy message is distinguished from a pilot signal as noted above as the pilot signal is not used to measure transmission statistics for the UE. After transmitting the dummy message the UE can reset the inactivity timer and continue to monitor the communication session. Note this a local timer at the UE and is not the timers at the RAN RNC previously discussed .

Turning to the RAN the RAN receives the low load data dummy message s from the UE s and measures transmission statistics for each. Based on the measured transmission statistics the RAN determines whether to increase or decrease the OLPC each UE and sends the power level adjustment message s to the UE s . After transmitting the power level adjustment message s the RAN returns to and continues to transmit data associated with the communication session. In response to the power level adjustment message s one or more UEs may update their UL transmission power level setpoint s based on the power level adjustment message s received from the RAN . Additional aspects and details of using a dummy message to improve the UL power level care provided in co pending U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 167 707 entitled MANAGING A REVERSE LINK TRANSMISSION POWER LEVEL SETPOINT DURING PERIODS OF INACTIVITY ON THE REVERSE LINK IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM assigned to the same assignee as the subject application filed on Apr. 8 2009 having attorney docket no. 090534P1 and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been described with respect to terminology that is specific to CDMA W CDMA and or EV DO protocols it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be modified to comply with other wireless telecommunication protocols such as UMTS LTE and or SAE in an example. For example in a UMTS implementation the above described call flows are still generally applicable. However the terminology of PDP context RNC or RNC SGSN and GGSN may instead be described as Evolved Packet System EPS bearer eNodeB Serving Gateway GW and packet data network PDN GW respectively. Accordingly the technical modifications to conform the CDMA implementation described above to a UMTS implementation are well within the abilities of one of ordinary skill in the art.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

