---

title: Refreshing memristive systems
abstract: A method for operating a circuit () containing memristive devices () senses respective states of a plurality of memristive devices () and refreshes the respective states of the memristive devices () according to the states sensed. A memristive device () including an array of memristive devices () between crossing lines ( and ) includes logic that senses respective states of memristive devices () and refreshes the respective states of the memristive devices () according to the states sensed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08675391&OS=08675391&RS=08675391
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08675391
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
This invention has been made with government support under contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

Memristive memory has the potential for high density low cost storage of data. Some memristive devices though are subject to decay or perturbation of state information which can lead to corruption of data stored in the devices. Other types of memory devices are also known to suffer from decay and perturbation of stored data. For example binary DRAM uses capacitors that store electric charge representing respective bits and therefore suffers from decay processes due to charge leakage that threaten the integrity of stored data. DRAM commonly addresses the problem of charge leakage using refresh cycles to preserve data. Each refresh cycle generally involves reading the stored charge e.g. the voltage on a capacitor deciding whether that charge represents a 0 or 1 bit then writing the bit value read back to the capacitor. Since the capacitor s charge may have decayed since last being written the capacitor voltage read is commonly compared to a threshold voltage and if the voltage read is above the threshold voltage the capacitor is written to the fully charged state. Otherwise the refresh operation discharges the capacitor to the fully discharged state.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention refresh processes for memristive devices can be interleaved with read or write operations and can use available read and write circuits. The frequency or timing of the refresh processes may be adjusted as necessary to accommodate the data corruption rate expected for the particular type of memristive device the arrangement of the memristive devices in an array or network and the number of performed operations that may have disturbed the memristive devices. In accordance with a further aspect of the invention a refresh of multiple binary memristive devices can be performed in a two step process that refreshes devices storing one binary value 0 or 1 during a first step and refreshes devices having the other binary value 1 or 0 during a second step. Each step uses a pair of drivers. In each step one driver applies a pulse having a polarity selected according to the state of the memristive device being refreshed. The other driver applies pulses with predetermined polarities e.g. applies a pulse of one polarity during a first step of the refresh process and applies a pulse of an opposite polarity during the second step of the refresh process.

U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2008 0090337 entitled Electrically Actuated Switch to R. Stanley Williams describes some suitable memristive devices for memristive regions and fabrication techniques for arrays of memristive devices and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In general wires and can be made of any conductive material but would typically be made of a metal such as platinum. A typical structure for memristive regions includes a layer of a source material and a layer of primary material. The primary material is generally a material that provides mobility to dopants from the source material where the mobility of dopants in the primary material is such that an applied electric field of sufficient magnitude can drive some of the dopants from the source material layer into the primary material or drive the dopants out of the primary material layer into the source material layer . The primary material is also such that the introduction of the dopants changes electrical properties of the primary material layer . In a typical configuration memristive region may be about 20 to 200 nm thick with source layer being less a few nanometers thick or less in a manner similar to a delta doped layer.

An exemplary primary source material combination is titanium dioxide TiO and oxygen depleted titanium dioxide TiO . TiOis a wide band semiconductor in its intrinsic state but becomes a narrow band semiconductor when oxygen vacancies are introduced. Oxygen vacancies have a relatively positive charge due to the high electron affinity of oxygen atoms and an applied electric field i.e. a voltage difference between a selected row line and a selected column line of sufficient magnitude can drive oxygen vacancies from the source material TiO into the primary material TiO or equivalently drive oxygen ions from the primary material into the source material. Thus a high enough voltage and the resulting current of oxygen vacancies can significantly increase the conductivity of the primary material in a region between the selected lines and . Similarly an electric field that is sufficient to drive oxygen vacancies from the primary material TiO back into the source material TiO can significantly decrease the conductivity of the primary material. When the combination of layers and is on the order of hundreds or tens of nanometers thick the change in resistance can generally be switched in times on the order of milliseconds to nanoseconds. Some other combinations of primary source materials suitable for layers and include ZrO ZrO HfO HfO and SrTiO SrTiO which use oxygen vacancies as mobile dopants GaN GaN which uses nitrogen vacancies as mobile dopants CuCl CuCl which uses chlorine vacancies as mobile dopants GaN GaN S which uses sulfide ions as mobile dopants and amorphous silicon and silver a Si Ag which uses silver ions as mobile dopants. Other types of memristive materials for regions could alternatively be employed in array and may or may not include source and primary layers and .

Each memristive region whatever its construction in array is generally capable of being placed into a continuum of resistance states but for storage of binary data the impedances states can be divided in two groups. One group corresponds to higher impedance e.g. impedance above a threshold level and represents to one binary value 0 or 1 and the other group corresponds to lower impedance e.g. impedance lower than the threshold and represents the other binary value 1 or 0. A write operation pushing a memristive region to a higher or lower impedance state would normally drive the memristive region to an impedance that is above or below the threshold level by a sufficient margin so that the impedance of the region can drift e.g. as the result of relaxation of the memristive state or electrical disturbances and still represent the correct binary value.

The behavior of memristive devices such as regions can generally be described by Equations 1 and 2 below. In Equations 1 and 2 W is one or more state variables e.g. dopant concentration in the primary material of the memristive device V is the voltage drop across the memristive device and I is the current through the memristive device. The function f is typically nonlinear in currents or voltage V such that small currents through or voltages across the memristive device have little impact on the evolution of state variable W while marginally larger currents or voltages induce rapid changes in state variable W. The function g describes the conductance of the memristive device which may be nonlinear in the applied voltage V.

Two distinguishable impedance states of each memristive region are sufficient for use of array as a binary memory. A high impedance state represents one binary value e.g. 0 bit and a low impedance state represents the other binary value e.g. a 1 bit . Small voltages applied across a memristive region can be used to read the state of the region without changing the state because of the non linearity in state evolution as indicated in Equation 1 and described above. Somewhat larger voltages across a region can be used to change the state and write a bit to the memristive region . The nonlinearity for changes in the state variable i.e. in Equation 1 causes each memristive region to effectively have two switching thresholds a positive on threshold and a negative off threshold. If the applied voltage across a memristive region exceeds e.g. is more positive than the on threshold for a brief interval nanoseconds to microseconds the memristive regions unconditionally switches to the low impedance or 1 state regardless of its previous state. Similarly if the applied voltage across a memristive region is less than e.g. more negative than the off threshold for a brief interval the memristive region unconditionally switches to the high impedance or 0 state. In general the concept of switching thresholds is only an approximation and over time sub threshold spikes in voltage applied across a memristive region and internal relaxation processes in the material of a memristive region can cause the actual state of the memristive region to drift away from the states set during a write operation.

Read write switches connect respective wires or column lines to respective column drivers for a write operation or sense amplifiers and integrators for a read operation. When writing to one or more selected columns switches for the selected columns connect the associated column drivers to respectively drive the selected column wires and disconnects sense amplifiers from column lines . Typically multiple memristive devices in the selected row would be written or read at a time. For a typical write protocol row drivers for all rows except a selected row drive a ground signal on wires while the row driver for the selected row emits a pair of voltage spikes one positive and one negative. is a timing diagram showing writing of a memristive device in array to a high impedance state e.g. a bit value 0 during an interval and writing another memristive device in the same row to a low impedance state e.g. bit value 1 during another interval . Signal Von the selected row line has a positive pulse during interval and a negative pulse during interval . The column drivers for all columns except the selected columns drive a ground signal on respective column lines during interval . Each column driver for a selected column drives either a negative pulse that aligns in time with positive pulse in signal Von the selected row line or a positive pulse that aligns in time with negative pulse in signal V. shows a signal Von a selected column line in which the memristive device in the selected row is written to the high impedance state and a signal Von a selected column line in which the memristive device in the selected row is written to the low impedance state.

During interval the combination of negative pulse and positive pulse causes a negative voltage drop from column line to row line across a selected memristive device equal to the sum of the amplitudes of pulses and and the magnitudes opposite polarities and durations of simultaneous pulses and are such that pulses and force a selected memristive device into the high impedance state. In particular although both pulses and may have sub threshold amplitudes the sum of the amplitudes can be more negative than the off switching threshold of a memristive device and the selected memristive device is driven to the high impedance or 0 state. Memristive devices that are in the same selected column but not the selected row experience only the sub threshold pulse during interval and are not switched from their current states. Similarly memristive devices that may be in the selected row but not in one of the selected columns experience only the sub threshold pulse during interval and are not switched from their current states.

During interval the combination of positive pulse and negative pulse causes a positive voltage drop from column line to row line across another memristive device and the magnitudes opposite polarities and durations of simultaneous pulses and are such that pulses and force the memristive device into the low impedance state. Again memristive devices that are in not in a selected column or the selected row experience at most experience a sub threshold pulse and are not switched from their current states during interval .

The write protocol of may be generalized for other applications of memristive devices such as for neuromorphic computing. For example in an application where all or multiple selected memristive devices within a selected column need to be written to the same state the column driver for the selected column drives a pulse of a polarity negative or positive selected depending on the bit value being written and drivers for selected rows drive respective pulses of the opposite polarity positive or negative .

Read write switches of disconnect drivers and connect sense amplifiers to column lines during a read operation as illustrated in interval of . During interval the selected row driver drives the selected row line with a pulse in signal V. Read pulse which may have but is not required to have the same amplitude as write pulse is a sub threshold voltage pulse that by itself will not significantly change the conductivity states of the memristive regions . During interval signal Von a selected column line that is connected to a row line through a memristive region in the high impedance state remains at a virtual ground established by the corresponding sense amplifier and little or no current flows through that column line to the associated sense amplifier . Signal Von a selected column line connected to the selected row line through a memristive region that is in the low impedance state receives a current voltage pulse that flows through the attached memristive device in the selected row. Each sense amplifier presents a virtual ground to the connected wire allowing conversion of sub threshold voltage pulse into a current spike e.g. pulse at the sense amplifier . Each integrator integrates a corresponding current spike and holds a voltage level for input to logic which discriminates between conductivity states of the corresponding memristive region in the selected row. Thus multiple memristive regions in array can be read by driving a single row line with a sub threshold voltage pulse while multiple column lines are at virtual ground associated with respective sense amplifiers .

Memristive arrays as noted above are not limited to performing memory operations such as read and write operations. For example array can use a process similar to a read operation to detect a dot product of an input voltage vector on row lines and a matrix of state values of memristive regions as long as the resistance of wires and is negligible relative to the ON resistance of the memristive regions . In particular Equation 3 shows the relationship of currents Ion the jth column line to the voltages Von the ith row line . In Equation 3 which follows from Ohm s law i and j are row and column indices Wis the state value of the memristive region in the ith row and jth column and g is the conduction function for memristive regions as in Equation 2 above 

Data storage and logic operations that require retaining the impedance states of memristive devices are subject to errors if the impedance state of a memristive device changes for example due to disturbances caused by read or write operations for other memristive devices or because of inherent relaxation or changes in the material of the memristive device. illustrates a pair of refresh cycles and that can be employed to reset memristive devices back to their freshly written states. More generally refresh cycles such as refresh cycles and can be periodically interleaved with normal read and write cycles to restore any decayed or perturbed memristive device state in the array. Each refresh operation includes a 0 cycle used to refresh memristive devices in a row back to the 0 state and a 1 cycle used to refresh memristive devices in a row back to the 1 state.

During each refresh cycle or one type of driver or drives the connected line s or with a pulse of a predetermined polarity and voltage while the other type of driver or drives the connected lines or with a pulse having a polarity or voltage that depends on the state of the memristive device s being refreshed. In the timing diagram of row logic and decoders control a row line driver to drive the selected line with refresh pulses and having polarity and voltage that do not depend on the state read from any specific memristive device . In the illustrated embodiment of the selected row line driver drives a positive polarity pulse in signal Vduring interval and drives a negative polarity pulse in signal Vduring interval . As described further below different protocols for the polarities of pulses and could be employed in refresh operations.

Selected drivers drive respective column lines during refresh cycles and with refresh pulses and having polarity or voltage selected according to the states of the respective memristive devices being refreshed. Preferably pulses and have sub threshold amplitudes. In the example of one column driver drives signal Cwith negative polarity pulses and during respective refresh cycles and in response a read operation e.g. during interval or indicating the high impedance state for the corresponding memristive device i.e. the connected memristive device in the selected row stores bit value 0. Similarly another column driver drives signal Vwith positive polarity pulses and during respective refresh cycles and in response to a read operation e.g. during interval or indicating the corresponding memristive device is in the low impedance state.

During refresh cycle positive pulse in signal Vcombined with negative pulse apply a voltage that is the same as used for writing the high impedance state. Accordingly the memristive device read to have a higher impedance state is refreshed to the original high impedance state achieved by a write operation. However positive pulse on the selected row line and positive pulse on the column line corresponding to a memristive device read to have a lower impedance state applies no net voltage if the amplitudes of pulses and are equal or at most a sub threshold voltage if pulses and are not exactly equal.

Refreshing the low impedance state works in a similar manner. The selected row driver first drives a read pulse in interval followed by a negative pulse . If sense amplifier detects a read pulse in signal V the associated column driver drives a negative pulse that aligns in time with positive pulse . The resulting combined voltage drop across the selected memristive device is above the on threshold and thus writes that memristive device back to the low impedance state. A sense amplifier detect fails to detect a pulse in signal V implying that the corresponding memristive device was in a high impedance state and the column driver for signal Vdoes not drive a positive pulse which leave the state of associated memristive device unchanged.

The refresh operation of can be varied and still refresh memristive devices . For example the refresh protocol of includes a first read cycle before refresh cycle and a second read cycle before refresh cycle and during the refresh cycles and the selected drivers drive respective column lines with negative or positive pulses depending on value read on the respective rows during the preceding read cycle. This can be achieved for example by including a latch or flip flop in logic that controls associated column drivers . However the second read cycle can be omitted if the read state may be maintained and known from read cycle . Further the order of refresh cycles and is arbitrary and either the high impedance state or the low impedance states may be refreshed first. Further the example refresh protocol of is typical for memory applications and has column drivers that drive pulses of polarities that are selected according to the states to be refreshed in respective memristive device in the selected row. However protocols for refresh operation can also refresh multiple memristive devices in a column and may have row drivers drive pulses having polarities that depend on the state being refreshed while one or more column drivers drive column lines with pulse having predetermined polarities that are independent of the states being refreshed.

Although the invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments the description is only an example of the invention s application and should not be taken as a limitation. Various adaptations and combinations of features of the embodiments disclosed are within the scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

