---

title: Programming architecture supporting mixed two and three dimensional displays
abstract: Applications are provided that contain code of a programming language enabling simultaneous display on a screen of both two-dimensional and three-dimensional content. Furthermore, development systems and program libraries supporting the same are provided. A first command is generated by first program code of an application. The first command directs a first configuration of a first region of the screen to support the three-dimensional content. A second command is generated by second program code of the application. The second command directs a second configuration of a second region of the screen to support the two-dimensional content. The display of the three-dimensional content is caused within the first region of the screen, and the display of the two-dimensional content is caused within the second region of the screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654767&OS=09654767&RS=09654767
owner: Avago Technologies General IP (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 09654767
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 291 818 filed on Dec. 31 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 303 119 filed on Feb. 10 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is also related to the following U.S. patent applications each of which also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 291 818 and 61 303 119 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 titled Display With Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 titled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D And Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 titled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator filed May 5 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 titled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed on same date herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 124 titled Operating System Supporting Mixed 2D Stereoscopic 3D And Multi View 3D Displays filed on same date herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 140 titled Internet Browser And Associated Content Definition Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 173 titled Application Programming Interface Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 titled Integrated Backlighting Sub Pixel and Display Driver Circuitry Supporting Adaptive 2D Stereoscopic 3D and Multi View 3D Displays filed on same date herewith.

The present invention relates to programming languages applications and software development kits associated with three dimensional image displays.

Images may be generated for display in various forms. For instance television TV is a widely used telecommunication medium for transmitting and displaying images in monochromatic black and white or color form. Conventionally images are provided in analog form and are displayed by display devices in two dimensions. More recently images are being provided in digital form for display in two dimensions on display devices having improved resolution e.g. high definition or HD . Even more recently images capable of being displayed in three dimensions are being generated.

Conventional displays may use a variety of techniques to achieve three dimensional image viewing functionality. For example various types of glasses have been developed that may be worn by users to view three dimensional images displayed by a conventional display. Examples of such glasses include glasses that utilize color filters or polarized filters. In each case the lenses of the glasses pass two dimensional images of differing perspective to the user s left and right eyes. The images are combined in the visual center of the brain of the user to be perceived as a three dimensional image. In another example synchronized left eye right eye LCD liquid crystal display shutter glasses may be used with conventional two dimensional displays to create a three dimensional viewing illusion. In still another example LCD display glasses are being used to display three dimensional images to a user. The lenses of the LCD display glasses include corresponding displays that provide images of differing perspective to the user s eyes to be perceived by the user as three dimensional.

Some displays are configured for viewing three dimensional images without the user having to wear special glasses such as by using techniques of autostereoscopy. For example a display may include a parallax barrier that has a layer of material with a series of precision slits. The parallax barrier is placed proximal to a display so that a user s eyes each see a different set of pixels to create a sense of depth through parallax. Another type of display for viewing three dimensional images is one that includes a lenticular lens. A lenticular lens includes an array of magnifying lenses configured so that when viewed from slightly different angles different images are magnified. Displays are being developed that use lenticular lenses to enable autostereoscopic images to be generated.

As such many types of display devices exist that are capable of displaying three dimensional images and further types are being developed. Different types of displays that enable three dimensional image viewing may have different capabilities and attributes including having different depth resolutions being configured for three dimensional image viewing only being switchable between two dimensional image viewing only and three dimensional image viewing only and further capabilities and attributes. Furthermore different types of applications exist that can provide either two dimensional or three dimensional image content to the displays for display.

Methods systems and apparatuses are described for programming languages applications software development kits and programming libraries that enable the display of mixed two dimensional and three dimensional content by displays substantially as shown in and or described herein in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify various aspects of the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to applications that are capable of configuring display devices to display mixed two dimensional and three dimensional content. For instance display devices may be enabled to display images video and further types of content in two dimensions and three dimensions that are provided by applications. Such content may be received and processed by applications or may be internally generated by applications. An application may include code configured to define display screen regions in which to display the images and or video content. The code may include commands that specify one or more parameters to be associated with the displayed regions and content. The application when executed may generate configuration commands based on the parameters that cause the display screen to be configured to display the 2D and or 3D content. The application may then supply the 2D and or 3D content for display in the configured regions of the display screen.

Numerous types of display devices may display 2D and 3D content provided by such applications. For example the display devices may include one or more light manipulators such as parallax barriers and or lenticular lenses to deliver 3D media content in the form of images or views to the eyes of the viewers. Other types may include display devices with 3D display pixel constructs that may or may not employ such light manipulators. When used light manipulators may be fixed or dynamically modified to change the manner in which the views are delivered. For instance embodiments enable light manipulators that are adaptable to accommodate a changing viewer sweet spot switching between two dimensional 2D stereoscopic three dimensional 3D and multi view 3D views as well as the simultaneous display of 2D stereoscopic 3D and multi view 3D content. With regard to parallax barriers example features that may be dynamically modified include one or more of a number of slits in the parallax barriers the dimensions of each slit the spacing between the slits and the orientation of the slits. Slits of the parallax barriers may also be turned on or off in relation to certain regions of the screen such that simultaneous mixed 2D stereoscopic 3D and multi view 3D presentations can be accommodated. Similarly a lenticular lens may be dynamically modified such as by modifying a width of the lenticular lens to modify delivered images.

The following subsections describe numerous exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For instance the next subsection describes embodiments for applications followed by a subsection that describes embodiments for displaying content using an application a subsection that describes software development kit embodiments for generating applications based on a programming language code written the programming language and linked program libraries a subsection that describes example displays a subsection that describes example display environments and a subsection that describes example electronic devices. It noted that the section subsection headings provided herein are not intended to be limiting. Embodiments are described throughout this document and any type of embodiment may be included under any section subsection.

It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made to the embodiments described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of exemplary embodiments described herein.

In embodiments applications also known as application programs that are configured for the display of mixed content are provided. An application may generate and or configure a display screen region e.g. a window or frame in which image or video content such as that produced by the application or received from another source can be displayed. Code of the application may associate one or more parameters with the screen region. The parameters can specify for example one or more of a type of video content to be displayed within the screen region e.g. 2D stereoscopic 3D or a particular type of multi view 3D a desired display orientation of the video content within the screen region a brightness contrast to be associated with the screen region a video resolution to be associated with the screen region e.g. 720p 1080p etc. and or further parameters described herein. The parameters to be associated with a screen region may be specified programmatically or determined dynamically at run time. The parameters may also be modified at run time by a user through a user control interface provided by the screen region. The application may be further configured to cause one or more function calls to be placed to a graphics API application programming interface or device driver so that a region is opened on the display and the video content is presented therein in a manner that is consistent with the associated parameters.

For instance shows a block diagram of a display system according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in system includes a display device an application and an operating system OS . System is a system where application configures display device for display of content and provides the content to display device for display. System is described as follows.

System may be implemented in one or more devices. For example in one embodiment application OS and display device may be implemented in a common electronic device that may be accessed by a user such as a mobile computing device e.g. a handheld computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer e.g. an Apple iPad a netbook etc. a mobile phone e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a mobile email device some types of televisions etc. In another embodiment as shown in application and OS may be implemented in an electronic device that is separate from display device . For instance device may be a home theater system receiver a set top box a computer a game console or other such device and display device may be a display device that is coupled to device in a wired or wireless fashion.

Application may be any type of application that is capable of generating and or processing content for display. For instance application may be implemented in software e.g. computer programs and or data that runs on a device. Application may generate or receive an image file a video file or stream or other item of content. For instance application may be a media player that is configured to load and or read a content file and or stream and to display the associated content. Application may receive the content from a local storage device over a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or a combination of communication networks such as the Internet or may receive the content from another source. Alternatively application may be a graphics application and or any other form of application that generates its own content for display. Application may display the content in one or more screen regions of a display screen of display device .

OS provides a platform on which programs may be executed such as application . OS may be implemented in software e.g. computer programs and or data that runs on a device. OS manages hardware provides common services enables execution of applications and enables applications to access hardware such as display device . Application may call OS and or be interrupted by OS for various reasons. OS may include a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI which a user may interact with to access application and or display device . In some cases application may interact directly with display device . Further description of implementations of OS and other operating system implementations described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 124 titled Operating System Supporting Mixed 2D Stereoscopic 3D And Multi View 3D Display filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Application may be generated based on program code of a programming language that enables display of mixed 2D and 3D content. As shown in application includes mixed 2D 3D supporting program code . Mixed 2D 3D supporting program code may be coded in a programming language compiled or un compiled that enables application to support display of mixed 2D and 3D content according to an exemplary embodiment. For example program code may enable application to generate and or provide two and three dimensional content for display by display devices that are capable of separately displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content display devices that are capable of simultaneously displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content display devices that are capable of simultaneously displaying different types of three dimensional content as well as display devices that can adaptively change the display of two dimensional and three dimensional contents e.g. by modifying display screen regions etc. .

For example 2D 3D supporting program code may capable of enabling application to display 2D and 3D content at display device in a manner based on the content itself and or based on one or more commands and or parameters provided by the programming language. For instance the programming language may support commands for configuring display screen regions for display of 2D or 3D content including one or more types of 3D content. Specific commands may be provided by the programming language to configure screen regions e.g. a configure screen for 3D4 command etc. and or the programming language may support one or more parameters that are included with commands that indicate types and characteristics of 2D and 3D content and or the screen regions in which the content is to be displayed. For example a command and or a parameter may indicate whether the content is to be displayed as 2D or 3D. Further commands and or parameters may be defined to indicate various types of three dimensional content such as 3D 4 to indicate 3D multiview content with four camera views 3D 8 to indicate 3D multiview content with eight camera views 3D HVGA to indicate three dimensional HVGA half size VGA etc. Any number of commands and or parameters may be available to indicate one or more 3D display characteristics such as stereoscopic depth e.g. a depth parameter brightness e.g. a brightness parameter a size of a region of a screen in which the 3D content is to be displayed e.g. a regionsize parameter having attributes such as row column width and height parameters a resolution parameter e.g. a resolution parameter a window orientation parameter indicating whether image content is to be displayed vertically or rotated by 90 degrees or by other amount e.g. an orientation parameter a window shape or freeform window parameter indicating a non rectangular shape for the displayed content e.g. a freeform parameter a display region type parameter e.g. a window a frame a tab etc. . Programmers may be enabled to use such commands and or parameters to define application to display 2D and or 3D content.

In embodiments display device may be one of a variety of display devices capable of displaying two dimensional and or three dimensional content. For instance shows a block diagram of a display system which is an exemplary embodiment of system of . As shown in system includes application OS a first display device and a second display device . As shown in application includes mixed 2D 3D supporting program code . First display device is a display device that is only capable of displaying two dimensional content and second display device is a display device that is capable of display two dimensional content and three dimensional content. In the example of via mixed 2D 3D supporting program code application is capable of displaying content at first and second display devices and . In embodiments application may be capable of providing content for display by first and second display devices and one at a time. In another embodiment application may be capable of providing content for display by first and second display devices and and or other combinations and numbers of display devices simultaneously.

Note that application may be interfaced with display devices in various ways other than through an operating system as shown in . For instance shows a block diagram of application interfacing with display device of in alternative ways according to embodiments. As shown in application can be interfaced with display device through an API application programming interface and a display driver through an OS e.g. OS of and display driver and or through display driver . is described as follows.

API is an interface implemented in software e.g. computer program code or logic for applications such as application that enables the applications to interact with other software and or hardware. API may be configured to perform graphics operations on graphics information received from the applications. API may be implemented in a same device as application . API may be a special purpose API or may be a commercially available API such as Microsoft DirectX e.g. Direct3D OpenGL or other 3D graphics API which may be modified according to embodiments to receive commands and or content from application . Further description of implementations of API and other API implementations described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 173 titled Application Programming Interface Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

OS is configured to interface users and applications with hardware such as display device . OS may be a commercially available or proprietary operating system. For instance OS may be an operating system such as Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X Google Android or Linux which may be modified according to embodiments.

Display driver may be implemented in software and enables applications e.g. higher level application code such as application to interact with display device . Display driver may be implemented in a same or different device as application . Multiple display drivers may be present and each display driver is typically display device specific although some display drivers may be capable of driving multiple types of display devices. Each type of display device typically is controlled by its own display device specific commands. In contrast most applications communicate with display devices according to high level device generic commands. Display driver accepts the generic high level commands directly from application or via API and or OS and breaks them into a series of low level display device specific commands as used by the particular display device.

As shown in application may generate a command associated with the display of 2D and or 3D content that is received by API . API passes command to display driver in a modified or unmodified form . Display driver receives command and generates one or more control signals received by display device . Control signal s place s a screen of display device in a display mode corresponding to command . Furthermore application may stream content to display device through API and display driver to be displayed in the screen configured according to command . Note the API may be included in OS when present or may be separate. Furthermore API may communicate directly with display driver as shown in or may communicate with display driver through OS .

Alternatively application may generate a command associated with the display of 2D and or 3D content that is received by OS . OS passes command to display driver in a modified or unmodified form . Display driver receives command and generates control signal s received by display device . Control signal s place s a screen of display device in a display mode corresponding to command . Furthermore application may stream content to display device through OS and display driver to be displayed in the screen configured according to command .

In another example application may generate a command associated with the display of 2D and or 3D content that is directly received by display driver e.g. does not pass through API or OS . Display driver receives command and generates control signal s received by display device . Control signal s place s a screen of display device in a display mode corresponding to command . Furthermore application may stream content to display device directly through display driver to be displayed by the screen configured according to command .

As such commands and content may be provided by application to display device through one or more different intermediate components which may include one or more of API OS and display driver .

Application may be executed in an electronic device. For instance shows a block diagram of an electronic device coupled to display device according to an exemplary embodiment. Device is an example of either of devices and shown in . As shown in device includes a processor a memory and storage . Device may include additional features that are not shown in for ease of illustration. Display device may be included in or may be external to device . Device may be any of the electronic devices mentioned herein or may be an alternative device.

Memory may include one or more random access memory RAM devices one or more read only memory ROM devices and or other memory devices. Processor may include one or more processors and or further processing logic. Storage may include one or more non volatile storage devices such as a hard disk drive a CDROM compact disc ROM a DVD digital video disc a flash memory card e.g. an SD secure digital card a USB universal serial bus flash drive etc. As shown in storage stores operating system and application . At power on of device operating system is caused to be loaded from storage into memory e.g. by a boot loader executed by processor at power up . Once loaded into memory operating system may be executed by processor . Subsequently application may be executed such as by a user interacting with a user interface generated by operating system to startup application . As shown in application may be loaded into memory from storage and may be executed by processor . For instance mixed 2D 3D display supporting program code may be executed by processor to support display of 2D and 3D content at a screen of display device .

Device may be configured in various ways to perform its functions and various embodiments for device are described herein. For instance shows a block diagram of a display system that includes a 2D and 3D display enabled application according to an embodiment. As shown in display system includes an application program . Application program is an embodiment of application that is capable of configuring display devices for display of two dimensional content and or three dimensional content and to supply such content to the display devices. The embodiment of application program shown in is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. In further embodiments application program may include fewer additional and or alternative features than shown in .

Display system is an example of a display system that is capable of displaying mixed 2D and 3D content e.g. via mixed 2D 3D supporting logic . As shown in system includes application program operating system kernel and kernel utilities with regional 3Dx support OS first third display circuitry a 2D display a 3D display with 2D mode a regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display and a content server . Application program includes a 2D region setup and control code module a 3Dx region setup and control code module a multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module a 2D 3Dx content generator and a 2D 3Dx content processor . OS includes user input interfaces a 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface shell operations 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services and an API supporting regional 2D 3Dx API . 2D 3Dx and mixed display driver interface includes 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant and mixed 2D and 3Ds driver variant . First third display circuitry each includes a corresponding one of translation services . The features of system are described as follows.

2D display 3D display with 2D mode and regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display are example types of display devices that may display content provided by application program . One or more of displays may be present. 2D display is an example of 2D display device of and is a display device that is only capable of displaying two dimensional content. 3Dx display with 2D mode is an example of 2D 3D display device of and is a display device that is capable of displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content. For instance 3Dx display with 2D mode may be set in a 2D mode where 3Dx display with 2D mode can display 2D content in full screen but not 3D content and may be set in a 3D mode where 3Dx display with 2D mode can display 3D content in full screen but not 2D content. Furthermore 3Dx display with 2D mode may be capable of displaying 3D content having multiple camera views multiview a number of x views such as 3D 4 having four camera views 3D 16 having sixteen camera views etc. The additional camera views enable viewers to view behind displayed 3D content by moving their heads left right as further described elsewhere herein. Regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display is an example of 2D 3D display device of and is a display device that is capable of displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content simultaneously. For instance regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display may display 2D content in one or more regions of a display screen while simultaneously displaying 3D content in one or more other regions of the display screen. Furthermore regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display may be capable of displaying 3D content having multiple camera views.

OS is an example of operating system shown in . OS interfaces applications such as application program with displays . As indicated in OS may provide various forms of 2D 3Dx display support. For instance API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is configured to interface one or more applications e.g. application program with OS and thereby interface the applications with a display device e.g. one or more of displays coupled to OS . API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is configured to enable applications to access various display functions including enabling regional definition for 2D 3D and 3Dx content displayed by display screens and further display functions when such applications do not provide such display functions themselves.

User input interfaces are configured to receive user input to enable a person to interact with display system application program and content displayed by displays . Further example embodiments for user input interfaces are described elsewhere herein.

2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface enables applications such as application program that interface with OS via API to provide and control two and or three dimensional content displayed at a displays 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant and mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant are examples of display driver of . 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands e.g. from application program to 2D only driver variant when 2D display is present enabling only 2D related commands to be processed. 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands to 3Dx only driver variant when 3Dx display with 2D mode is present enabling 2D or 3Dx related commands to be processed. 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands to mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant when regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display is present enabling regional 2D or 3Dx related commands to be processed.

Shell operations may be present in OS to control and or enable user configuration of environmental properties such as the 2D and or 3D display configuration of an environmental background of desktop icons of displayed windows etc. In embodiments shell operations may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof including as a shell operations module.

Mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services may be present in OS to provide for translation of received content e.g. from an application such as application program from a first dimensionality to a second dimensionality. For instance translation services may be configured to translate received 3D content to 2D content such as when an application provides 3D content and 2D display is the target display e.g. the target display is not capable of displaying 3D content . In another example translation services may be configured to translate a first type of 3D content to a second type of 3D content such as when an application provides regional 2D and or 3D content and 3Dx display with 2D mode is the target display e.g. the target display is not capable of displaying content regionally and or to translate 3D content having a first number x of cameras e.g. 3D 8 content to 3D content having a second number y of cameras e.g. 3D 4 content if the target display does not support x camera views. Still further translation services may be configured to translate 2D content to 3D content and or may be able to perform other forms of content translations.

In further embodiments OS may include fewer additional and or alternative features than shown in . Further description regarding an operating system configured to interface applications with displays supporting two dimensional and three dimensional views such as OS is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 124 titled Operating System Supporting Mixed 2D Stereoscopic 3D And Multi View 3D Displays which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Display circuitry may have the form of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof such as having the form of a graphics card circuitry etc. Display circuitry may be present to interface OS with displays respectively. Display circuitry may receive content signals and control signals from OS and may be configured to generate drive signals to drive displays respectively. Examples of display circuitry e.g. drive circuits are described elsewhere herein.

As shown in display circuitry may each optionally include a corresponding one of translation services . When present translation services may perform translations of received content in a similar manner as mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services . For instance translation services may translate received 3D content to 2D content for display by 2D display . Translation services may translate received regionally configurable 2D and or 3D content to non regional 2D and or 3D content for display by 3Dx display with 2D mode display . Translation services and may each translate unsupported types of 3D content to supported types of 3D content for display by 3Dx display with 2D mode display and regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display respectively. Translation services may also be configured to perform additional and or alternative forms of content translations in embodiments.

Application program is an example of application of that may be interfaced with displays . One or more of applications may separately or simultaneously execute and interact with OS to provide content for display by displays 2D region setup and control code module of application program includes code configured to setup and control a display screen region for the display of 2D content. For instance code module may include one or more commands and or parameters that can set one or more 2D screen region characteristics such as size location shape type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known. Code module may setup up the initial characteristics of the 2D screen region and may control modifications to the 2D screen region e.g. changes in size location shape type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic .

3Dx region setup and control code module of application program includes code configured to setup and control a display screen region for the display of 3D content. For instance code module may include one or more commands and or parameters that can set one or more 3D screen region characteristics such as 3D type e.g. 3D 2 3D 4 3D HVGA etc. size location shape type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known. Code module may setup up the initial characteristics of the 3D screen region and may control modifications to the 3D screen region e.g. changes in 3D type size location shape type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic .

Multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module of application program includes code configured to setup and control multiple display screen regions that display 2D and or 3D content. For instance code module may setup and control one or more regions for the display of 2D content and one or more regions for the display of 3D content. Code module may include one or more commands and or parameters that can set one or more 2D and 3D screen region characteristics such as those described above. Code module may setup up the initial characteristics of the 2D and 3D screen regions and may control modifications to the 2D and 3D screen region such as the modification described above. In one variant code module is a separate code module from code modules and . In another variant code module may include portions or all of code modules and which may be used by code module to set up and control separate 2D and 3D screen regions respectively.

2D 3Dx content generator is configured to generate 2D and or 3D content for display by one or more of displays . For instance 2D 3Dx content generator may be configured to generate one or more types of 2D and or 3D content. 2D 3Dx content generator may generate one or more images or streams of 2D and or 3D content to be displayed in one or more corresponding screen regions setup and or controlled by one or more of code modules . For instance 2D 3Dx content generator may generate 2D content to be displayed in a 2D screen region setup and controlled by code module or may generate 3D content to be displayed in a 3D screen region setup and controlled by code module . In another variant 2D 3Dx content generator may generate multiple images or streams of 2D and or 3D content to be simultaneously displayed in corresponding screen regions setup and controlled by code module 2D 3Dx content generator may be any code configured to generate 2D and or 3D content such as a graphics code module and or any other form of code that generates graphical content for display.

2D 3Dx content processor is configured to receive 2D and 3D content from a source external to application program . For example as shown in 2D 3Dx content processor may receive 2D 3Dx content from a content server e.g. from a server over a network such as a LAN WAN or combination of networks such as the Internet . 2D 3Dx content processor may receive 2D 3Dx content through a communication interface of an electronic device that executes application program . Alternatively 2D 3Dx content processor may receive 2D 3Dx content from a storage device associated with e.g. internal to or connected to the electronic device that executes application program . 2D 3Dx content processor processes the received 2D and or 3D content and provides the processed content for display by one or more of displays . For example 2D 3Dx content processor may buffer the received content may resize or scale the received content may translate the received content from a form that is unsupported by the target display to a form that is supported by the target display and or may process the received content in any other manner.

Application program may include any combination of code modules 2D 3Dx content generator and 2D 3Dx content processor depending on the particular implementation. Any one or more of code modules 2D 3Dx content generator and 2D 3Dx content processor may be code that is programmed on an application by application basis or may be library modules that are accessible in a program code library to be called by included in and or otherwise linked with application program .

The embodiments of display system and application program shown in are provided for purposes of illustration. In further embodiments display system and application program may include fewer further and or alternative components as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s . Further embodiments regarding the features of display system and application program are described in the following subsections.

2D and 3D content may be displayed by an application in various ways according to embodiments. For instance shows a flowchart providing a process for an application to configure a display screen for display of mixed 2D and 3D content according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart may be performed by applications described elsewhere herein such as application of or application program of . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a first command is generated directing a two dimensional display of two dimensional content within a first region of a screen. For example referring to application may include first program code that generates a first command that is a configuration request for a first region of screen of display device to support display of 2D content. Possible examples of the first command are described elsewhere herein. Subsequently to the first region of screen being configured according to the command the 2D content may be transmitted by application to display device for display on screen .

In step a second command is generated directing a three dimensional display of three dimensional content within a second region of the screen. For example application of may include second program code that generates a second command that is a configuration request for a second region of screen to support display of 3D content. Possible examples of the second command are described elsewhere herein. Subsequently to the second region of screen being configured according to the second command the 3D content may be transmitted by application to display device for display on screen .

The steps of flowchart may be performed in various ways. For instance shows a flowchart that is an example variant of flowchart of . Flowchart may be performed by applications described elsewhere herein such as application of or application program of . Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a block diagram of an electronic device interfaced with a display device according to an exemplary embodiment. Device is an example of device or device of and display device may be included in or may be external to device . In the example of device includes an application program and a display driver . Application program is an example of application and display driver is an example of mixed 2D 3Dx driver variant of . As shown in application program includes multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module 2D 3Dx content generator and 2D 3Dx content processor of . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a first command is generated directing at least in part a first configuration of a first region of the screen to support the first content the first configuration being a first three dimensional configuration. During execution of application program program code may be encountered for display of three dimensional content. For instance multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module may include first program code e.g. 2D region setup and control code module that is executed to generate a first command directing a first region of screen to be configured according to a first configuration that supports the display of three dimensional content. First command may include any number of parameters that define the first configuration. First command and any included parameters may define screen region characteristics such as a 3D type size location region shape type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known. Possible example commands for first command are described elsewhere herein. First command may be transmitted from application directly or through an API and or OS to display driver . Display driver receives first command and generates control signal s that are received by display device . Control signal s place s a first region of screen in a 3D display mode for display of the 3D content.

In step a second command is generated directing at least in part a second configuration of a second region of the screen to support the second content. During execution of application program further program code may be encountered for display of second content which may be two dimensional or three dimensional content e.g. of any type of 3D content . For instance multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module may include program code e.g. 2D region setup and control code module or 3Dx region setup and control code module that is executed to generate a second command directing a second region of screen to be configured according to a second configuration that supports the display of the second content. Second command may include any number of parameters that define the second configuration. Second command and any included parameters may define screen region characteristics such as a 3D type if the second content is 3D 3D depth size location shape region type brightness resolution contrast orientation and or other region characteristic mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known. Possible example commands for second command are described elsewhere herein. Second command may be transmitted from application directly or through an API and or OS to display driver . Display driver receives second command and generates control signal s that are received by display device . Control signal s place s a second region of screen in a 2D or 3D display mode for display of the second content.

In step the display of the first content is caused within the first region of the screen. For instance the first content which is three dimensional content may be internally generated by application e.g. by 2D 3Dx content generator or received from an external source as 2D 3Dx content and processed by application e.g. by 2D 3Dx content processor . For instance in the example of 2D 3Dx content processor is shown receiving 2D 3D content which in the example of is three dimensional content. As described above for three dimensional content images of differing perspective are delivered to the right and left eyes of a viewer. The images are combined in the visual center of the brain of the viewer to be perceived as a three dimensional image. Thus 2D 3D content includes left and right images or image streams to be displayed to the left and right eyes of a viewer respectively. 2D 3Dx content processor processes 2D 3D content and outputs 3D graphical data that defines the 3D content. Display driver may receive 3D graphical data and transmit corresponding processed 3D graphical data that is received by display device . Display device may display the 3D content of processed 3D graphical data in the first region of screen which is configured according to the first configuration request.

In step the display of the second content is caused within the second region of the screen. For instance the second content which may be two dimensional or three dimensional content may be internally generated by application e.g. by 2D 3Dx content generator or received from an external source as 2D 3Dx content and processed by application e.g. by 2D 3Dx content processor . For instance in the example of 2D 3Dx content generator generates the second content as two dimensional content. As described above for two dimensional content same images are delivered to the right and left eyes of a viewer so that the content is perceived as two dimensional. Thus 2D 3Dx content generator may generate a single image or image stream that is output as 2D graphical data . Display driver may receive 2D graphical data and transmit corresponding processed 2D graphical data that is received by display device . Display device may display the 2D content of processed 2D graphical data in the second region of screen which is configured according to the second configuration request.

As such according to flowcharts and two dimensional and three dimensional content provided by an application may simultaneously be displayed within corresponding regions of a display screen. Furthermore different types of three dimensional content e.g. different resolutions different numbers of image pairs different stereoscopic depths etc. are enabled to be individually or simultaneously displayed by an application. In embodiments any number of different types of two dimensional and three dimensional content may be displayed in any number of regions of screen .

For instance show examples of screen displaying content in various screen regions according to embodiments. shows screen including a first region and a background region . Background region is optionally present or visible depending on whether first region covers screen partially or entirely. When present background region may be a two dimensional or three dimensional background region generated by an operating system e.g. OS of or OS of or an application other than the application that provides content for display in first region . First region is configured for the display of three dimensional content by an application according to step of flowchart or according to steps and of flowchart of . As shown in background region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen and first region has a smaller size filling a rectangular space imposed on background region . For instance in one embodiment provided for purposes of illustration background region may be a two dimensional desktop region displayed on a computer screen and first region may be a window generated by an application displaying three dimensional content in the desktop region. In another embodiment background region may correspond to two dimensional television content while first region is a picture in picture region generated by an application that displays three dimensional television content overlaid on background region .

In another example shows screen including a first region and a background region . Background region is optionally present depending on whether first region covers screen partially or entirely. When present background region may be a two dimensional or three dimensional background region generated by an operating system e.g. OS of or OS of or an application other than the application that provides content for display in first region . First region is configured for the display of two dimensional content by an application according to step of flowchart or according to steps and of flowchart of . As shown in background region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen and first region has a smaller size filling a rectangular space imposed on background region . For instance in one embodiment provided for purposes of illustration background region may be a three dimensional desktop region displayed on a computer screen and first region may be a window generated by an application displaying two dimensional content in the desktop region. In another embodiment background region may correspond to three dimensional television content while first region is a picture in picture region generated by an application that displays two dimensional television content overlaid on background region .

In another example shows screen including a first region a second region and a background region . First region is configured for the display of two dimensional content by an application according to step of flowchart of or according to steps and of flowchart of and second region is configured for the display of three dimensional content by the same application according to step of flowchart or according to steps and of flowchart of . As shown in background region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen first region has a smaller size filling a rectangular space imposed on background region and second region also has a smaller size filling an elliptical space imposed on background region adjacent to first region . Similarly to background region may be a two dimensional or three dimensional desktop region of a computer screen a two dimensional or three dimensional television screen region etc. First and second regions and are both generated by a same application e.g. application application program application program etc. that has mixed 2D and 3D display capability. First region may be a window displaying two dimensional content in the desktop region in a picture in picture region etc. and second region may be a window displaying three dimensional content in the desktop region in a picture in picture region etc. In the example of first and second regions and are not in contact with each other. In another embodiment first and second regions and may be in contact with each other or overlapping. Furthermore one or more additional screen regions may be present that display 2D or 3D content provided by the application.

It is noted that the examples of are provided for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting.

In embodiments applications such as application may be developed using a programming language that provides native support for the display of mixed 2D and 3D content. For example the programming language may provide functions for both defining a region within which to display image or video content and for specifying one or more commands for defining the region and or parameters to be associated with the region. The commands and or parameters can specify for example one or more of a type of video content that will be displayed within the region e.g. 2D stereoscopic 3D or a particular type of multi view 3D a desired orientation of the video content within the region a brightness contrast to be associated with the region a video resolution to be associated with the region and or further display characteristics. Examples of such commands and parameters are described above. Applications may be developed as computer programs that use such a programming language and include such functions. When the computer programs are compiled and executed they operate to cause one or more function calls to be placed to an operating system graphics API or device driver so that the defined region is opened on the display and the video content is presented therein in a manner that is consistent with the associated parameters.

For instance shows a software development system for developing application programs that support mixed 2D and 3D content according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in system includes a software development kit SDK . SDK receives programming language written code and generates compiled code . As shown in programming language written code includes mixed 2D 3D display instruction code and compiled code includes compiled mixed 2D 3D display supporting program code . These features of are described as follows.

SDK is a software development kit for a programming language that enables simultaneous display on a screen of both two dimensional content and three dimensional content. As shown in SDK includes a compiler and one or more mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules . Although not shown in SDK may include further components such as source code editor e.g. a text editor tool for a software developer to enter and edit source code such as programming language written code a build automation tool that automates tasks for software developers a debugger etc.

SDK may provide an interface e.g. a GUI etc. to receive programming language written code . Programming language written code is written by one or more software developers in a programming language that supports the display of mixed 2D and 3D content. The programming language is an artificial language that is designed to express algorithms and or computations that can be performed by a machine e.g. by a device that includes processor shown in . The programming language is defined by a syntax and semantics. The programming language may be a form of an existing programming language such as C C C Fortran Java JavaScript Pascal Perl PHP Python or Ruby that is modified to support the display of mixed 2D and 3D content e.g. to include and support the example commands and parameters described elsewhere herein or may be a separately created programming language that provides such support.

Compiler is configured to compile code written in the programming language into compiled code. For example as shown in compiler may compile programming language written code into compiled code . As shown in compiler may link compiled code to one or more of mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules .

For instance in an embodiment SDK may perform a flowchart shown in . Flowchart provides a process for generating an application that includes support for the display of mixed 2D and 3D content according to an exemplary embodiment. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step code written in a programming language is compiled into compiled code. For example as shown in compiler may receive and compile programming language written code into compiled code . Techniques for compiler to compile written code into compiled code are well known to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In step the compiled code is linked with one or more of a plurality of library modules that support the display of two dimensional and three dimensional content. Step is optional. The programming language used for programming language written code may have an associated core library also known as a standard library or program library . The core library may include definitions for commonly used algorithms data structures and mechanisms for input and output in the form of library modules. The core library may include one or more library modules including one or more of mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules . Compiler when compiling written code into compiled code may link one or more of library modules with compiled code to enable compiled code to support the display of two dimensional and three dimensional content according to the linked library modules. Compiled code with any linked library modules may be released for use in an electronic device as an example of application of or application program .

Compiled code may include compiled code that issues commands to one or more of library modules to perform various functions. For instance during execution of compiled code first code of compiled code e.g. 2D region setup and control code module 3Dx region setup and control code module or multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module of may deliver one or more commands to library module s . The one or more commands may be indicative of a viewing dimension such as 2D or 3D. Library module s may respond to the one or more commands by at least in part placing a first screen region of a display e.g. screen of display device in a selected one of a two dimensional configuration or a three dimensional configuration the selection in conformance with the indicated viewing dimension. Compiled code may include further code e.g. 2D 3Dx content generator or 2D 3Dx content processor that at least assists in establishing display of content in the first screen region of the screen the content being 2D or 3D content depending on the configuration of the screen region.

For instance shows a block diagram of an example of mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules according to an embodiment. As shown in the example of library modules include a 2D display supporting library module a 3Dx display supporting library module and a mixed 2D 3Dx display supporting library module . Furthermore in embodiments library modules may include any number of further and or alternative library modules .

When linked to compiled code 2D display supporting library module is configured to respond to calls from compiled code by assisting in establishing a first region of a screen e.g. screen that involves placing the first region in a first configuration to support display of two dimensional content. As such the first configuration is a two dimensional configuration. Any number of variants of 2D display supporting library module may be present in library modules that provide corresponding configurations to support display of different types of 2D content in screen regions.

When linked to compiled code 3Dx display supporting library module is configured to respond to calls from compiled code by assisting in establishing a second region of the screen that involves placing the second region in a second configuration to support display of three dimensional content. As such the second configuration is a three dimensional configuration. Any number of variants of 3D display supporting library module may be present in library modules that provide corresponding configurations to support display of different types of 3D content in screen regions.

When linked to compiled code mixed 2D 3Dx display supporting library module is configured to respond to calls from compiled code by assisting in establishing multiple regions of the screen placing the multiple regions in one or more corresponding configurations to support display of two dimensional and three dimensional content. Any number of variants of mixed 2D 3D display supporting library module may be present in library modules that provide corresponding configurations to support display of different types of 2D and 3D content in screen regions.

As described above compiler may link compiled code with one or more of library modules . For instance shows a block diagram of compiled code linked to library modules that provide 2D and 3D display support according to an exemplary embodiment. In the example of compiled code includes display configuration command code content display command code and content translation code . Any one or more of display configuration command code content display command code and content translation code and or one or more further and or alternative compiled code modules may be present in compiled code in embodiments depending on the particular implementation.

Display configuration command code is compiled code that when executed causes a screen region e.g. a window configured for the display of two or three dimensional content to be opened in a region of the display screen. As shown in the example of display configuration command code is linked as indicated by dotted lines to 2D display supporting library module and 3Dx display supporting library module . As such display configuration command code may make a call to 2D display supporting library module or 3Dx display supporting library module to configure the screen region for display of 2D content or 3D content respectively. In embodiments display configuration command code may include one or more of 2D region setup and control code module 3Dx region setup and control code module or multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module of that are configured to issue the calls to library modules and and or library module when present .

Content display command code is compiled code that when executed delivers content to a screen region opened on the screen according to display configuration command code . For instance content display command code may cause 2D content or 3D content to be delivered to the display device for display by the screen region. In embodiments content display command code may include one or more of 2D 3Dx content generator and 2D 3Dx content processor to process and deliver external content e.g. 2D 3Dx content and to generate and deliver internally generated content respectively.

Content translation code is compiled code that when executed converts a first type of content to a second type of content to be provided for display by the display screen in a screen region opened on the screen according to display configuration command code . For instance the translation may be performed if the display screen does not support a particular type of content display if a user has selected or indicated a preference etc. In the examples of described above it is assumed that display device supports the display of both two dimensional and three dimensional content. However it is noted that not all types of display device may support both two dimensional content and three dimensional content. Furthermore not all types of display device that support three dimensional content may support all types of three dimensional content. As such in embodiments content translation code may be configured to translate unsupported types of content to supported types of content.

For instance shows a block diagram of content translation code according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in content translation code includes a first translator and a second translator . In embodiments compiled code may include one or both of first and second translators and . First translator may be present in content translation code when display device does not support the display of three dimensional content. Second translator may be present in content translation code when display device associated with content translation code does not support the display of one or more types of three dimensional content.

First translator is configured to translate received 3D data to 2D data for display by a display device. For example content translation code may receive an indication of a 2D configuration of a screen region from display configuration code . As such if received content for display in the screen region is 3D content first translator may translate three dimensional graphical data representative of the received content to two dimensional graphical data . The supported type of two dimensional graphical data may be transmitted to the display device to enable the corresponding two dimensional content to be displayed in the region of screen .

Furthermore a display device that supports the display of three dimensional data may not support all types of three dimensional data e.g. the display device does not support 3D graphics data having additional camera views other than initial first right and left views does not support a number of camera views greater than 3D 4 etc. . Second translator is configured to translate received 3D data of a first 3D content type to 3D data of a second 3D content type for display by a display device. For example content translation code may receive an indication of a 3D configuration of a screen region from display configuration code . As such if received content for display in the screen region is a type of 3D content that is unsupported by the screen region second translator may translate the unsupported type of three dimensional graphical data of the received content to a supported type of three dimensional graphical data . The supported type of three dimensional graphical data may be transmitted to the display device to enable the corresponding three dimensional content to be displayed in the region of screen .

First translator may be configured in various ways to translate received 3D data to 2D data. For instance in an embodiment three dimensional graphical data may be received as a stream of right image data and left image data. First translator may be configured to combine the right and left image data into two dimensional image data that defines a stream of two dimensional images that may be output as two dimensional graphical data . In another embodiment first translator may be configured to select the right image data or the left image data to be output as two dimensional graphical data while the other of the right image data or left image data is not used. In further embodiments first translator may translate received 3D data to 2D data in other ways.

Second translator may be configured in various ways to translate 3D data of a first 3D content type to 3D data of a second 3D content type. For instance second translator may translate a first 3D multiview type e.g. 3D 16 to a second 3D multiview type e.g. 3D 4 or to a single 3D view. In such an embodiment second translator may not pass extra left right image pairs from first type three dimensional graphical data to second type three dimensional graphical data . In an embodiment second translator and or first translator may use techniques of image scaling to modify an unsupported display resolution to a supported display resolution. For instance second translator may use upsampling or interpolating to increase resolution and may use subsampling or downsampling to decrease resolution. In further embodiments second translator may translate 3D data in other ways. In still further embodiments a translator may be present to translate 2D content to 3D content such as when a user has a preference to view content as 3D content. Various techniques may be used to convert 2D graphical data to 3D graphical data as would be known to person skilled in the relevant art s .

Referring back to compiled code may include further and or alternative code modules than shown in . Furthermore content display command code and or content translation code may access one or more library modules to perform their respective functions.

For instance compiled code may include program code that generates a request for an indication of at least one characteristic of a display screen. For instance an application based on compiled code e.g. application may generate a request for characteristics of screen of display device to determine the capabilities of screen . In this manner the application may provide types of 2D and or 3D content that are supported by screen e.g. may translate unsupported types of content as described above . Furthermore a library module may be present that is capable of requesting an indication of display screen characteristics for program code of compiled code .

In another example compiled code may include program code or may access a library module that receives an input signal from a user input interface such as user input interface of OS in . As described above user input interface receives user input to enable persons to interact with display devices associated with display system . For example via user input interface a user may be enabled to move displayed graphical objects e.g. icons windows etc. may be able to modify e.g. rotate resize etc. displayed graphical objects to interact with displayed controls etc. User input interface may provide a command line interface a GUI and or other interface with which the user can interact. In embodiments user input interface may enable users to adjust three dimensional characteristics of displayed three dimensional content. For example user input interface may enable three dimensionality of displayed content to be turned on or off e.g. to toggle between two dimensionality and three dimensionality . User input interface may enable a degree of three dimensionality of displayed content to be modified e.g. increased or decreased such as by changing a depth of three dimensionality increasing or decreasing a number of supplied camera views etc. may enable three dimensional objects to be rotated in three dimensions and or may enable further types of adjustment to three dimensional characteristics of displayed three dimensional content. Furthermore user input interface may enable other characteristics of displayed content to be modified such as modifying contrast brightness etc.

In embodiments the user may interact with user input interface in various ways including using a mouse pointing device to move a displayed pointer cursor. The pointer may be used to click and drag objects to move them to resize objects to rotate objects to select controls settings to open a pop up menu etc. In other embodiments the user may interact with a keyboard a thumb wheel or other wheel a roller ball a stick pointer a touch sensitive display any number of virtual interface elements e.g. such as a keyboard or other user interface element displayed by screen a voice recognition system and or other user interface elements described elsewhere herein or otherwise known to provide user input. For instance user input interface may support a touch screen that is reactive to user finger touches to the screen to cause three dimensional characteristics of displayed objects to be modified. For instance particular motions of one or more figures against the screen may cause object resizing 3D rotation movement in 3D etc. e.g. touching two fingers to the screen and dragging them together may be interpreted as grabbing a window and moving the window in 3D .

As a result of the input signal received at the user input interface the program code of compiled code and or a corresponding library module may generate a command that is configured to cause an adjustment of a three dimensional characteristic of three dimensional content displayed in the corresponding region of screen . The command may be received by a display driver such as one of driver variants and of or display driver of which may generate a control signal based on the command. The control signal may relate to selecting and or modifying a three dimensional characteristic indicated by a user interacting with user input interface . The control signal may be delivered by the display driver to the display device to cause an adjustment of the three dimensional characteristic of three dimensional content displayed in a region of screen e.g. by causing a device driver circuit to generate corresponding drive signals .

For example a user may interact with one of regions or shown in . The user may resize a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional may rotate a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional may move a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional in any of the three degrees e.g. left right up down or forward backward from a first screen region to a second screen region may change a degree of three dimensionality of a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional e.g. reducing or increasing a number of associated camera views etc. A corresponding command and thereby a control signal may be generated to adjust the three dimensional characteristic of the three dimensional content being displayed.

Embodiments described herein for applications and programming languages that support the display of two dimensional and three dimensional content may be implemented with respect to various types of display devices. For example as described above some display screens are configured for displaying two dimensional content although they may display two dimensional images that may be combined to form three dimensional images by special glasses worn by users. Some other types of display screens are capable of display two dimensional content and three dimensional content without the users having to wear special glasses using techniques of autostereoscopy. As described above application embodiments described herein may generate configuration requests commands to configure regions of the display screen for display of content and may provide the content for display in the configured regions. Display drivers e.g. display driver of driver variants and of display driver of etc. may receive the configuration requests commands and may generate control signals to cause the screen to be configured as indicated. Furthermore the display drivers may supply the content provided by the applications to the display devices to be displayed on the screen. Example display devices screens and display driver circuits are described as follows that receive the control signals are configured accordingly and that receive and display the provided content.

As described above display devices such as display device may be implemented in various ways. For instance display device may be a television display e.g. an LCD liquid crystal display television a plasma television etc. a computer monitor or any other type of display device. Display device may include any suitable type or combination of light and image generating devices including an LCD screen a plasma screen an LED light emitting device screen e.g. an OLED organic LED screen etc. Furthermore display device may include any suitable type of light filtering device such as a parallax barrier e.g. an LCD filter a mechanical filter e.g. that incorporates individually controllable shutters etc. and or a lenticular lens and may be configured in any manner including as a thin film device e.g. formed of a stack of thin film layers etc. Furthermore display device may include any suitable light emitting device as backlighting including a panel of LEDs or other light emitting elements.

For instance shows a block diagram of a display device according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in display device includes a screen . Display device is an example of display device and screen is an example of screen described above. Device receives one or more control signals e.g. based on commands from application application program application program compiled code library modules etc. that are configured to place screen in a desired display mode e.g. either a two dimensional display mode or a three dimensional display mode . As shown in screen includes a light manipulator . Light manipulator is configured to manipulate light that passes through light manipulator to enable three dimensional images to be delivered to users in a viewing space. For instance control signal s may be configured to activate or deactivate light manipulator to place screen in a three dimensional display mode or a two dimensional display mode respectively.

Examples of light manipulator include a parallax barrier and a lenticular lens. For instance light manipulator may be a parallax barrier that has a layer of material with a series of precision slits. The parallax barrier is placed proximal to a light emitting pixel array so that a user s eyes each see a different set of pixels to create a sense of depth through parallax. In another embodiment light manipulator may be a lenticular lens that includes an array of magnifying lenses configured so that when viewed from slightly different angles different images are magnified. Such a lenticular lens may be used to deliver light from a different set of pixels of a pixel array to each of the user s eyes to create a sense of depth. Embodiments are applicable display devices that include such light manipulators include other types of light manipulators and that may include multiple light manipulators.

As shown in display device receives a content signal e.g. from device of or other electronic device . Content signal includes two dimensional or three dimensional content for display by screen depending on the particular display mode. In the embodiment of light manipulator is physically fixed is not adaptable. As such when present light manipulator e.g. a fixed parallax barrier or a fixed lenticular lens always delivers three dimensional images of a particular type to a particular region in a viewing space. As such light manipulator is not adaptable to deliver other types of three dimensional images and or to deliver two and or three dimensional images to multiple different regions of a viewing space.

In contrast shows a block diagram of a display device that is adaptable according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in display device includes a screen . Display device is an example of display device and screen is an example of screen described above e.g. with respect to . Furthermore as shown in screen includes an adaptable light manipulator . Adaptable light manipulator is configured to manipulate light that passes through adaptable light manipulator to enable three dimensional images to be delivered to users in a viewing space. Furthermore adaptable light manipulator is adaptable is not physically fixed in configuration. As such adaptable light manipulator is adaptable to deliver multiple different types of three dimensional images and or to deliver three dimensional images to different moving regions of a viewing space. Furthermore in an embodiment different regions of adaptable light manipulator may be adaptable such that multiple two dimensional and or three dimensional images may be simultaneously delivered by screen to the viewing space.

Device receives one or more control signals e.g. based on commands from application application program application program compiled code library modules etc. that are configured to place screen in a desired display mode e.g. either a two dimensional display mode or a three dimensional display mode and or to configure three dimensional characteristics of any number and type as described above such as configuring adaptable light manipulator to deliver different types of three dimensional images to deliver three dimensional images to different moving regions of a viewing space and to deliver two dimensional and or three dimensional images from any number of regions of screen to the viewing space.

As shown in display device receives a content signal e.g. from device of or other electronic device . Content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display by screen depending on the particular display mode and on the number of regions of screen that are delivering different two or three dimensional views to a viewing space.

Content signals and may include video content according to any suitable format. For example content signals and may include video content delivered over an HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface interface over a coaxial cable as composite video as S Video a VGA video graphics array interface etc. Note that control signals and may be provided separately or in a same signal stream to display devices as their corresponding one of content signals and .

Exemplary embodiments for display devices and of are described as follows for purposes of illustration.

Display devices and may include parallax barriers as light manipulators and respectively. For instance shows a block diagram of a display system which is an example of display device according to an embodiment. As shown in system includes a display device driver circuit an image generator and parallax barrier . As shown in image generator includes a pixel array and parallax barrier includes a barrier element array . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit includes a pixel array driver circuit and a barrier array driver circuit . These features of system are described as follows.

Pixel array includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution . Pixel array is a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light emitted from image generator . Each pixel may be a separately addressable light source e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display such as an OLED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary color and intensity. In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of pixel array . Barrier element array is a layer of parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Combinations of barrier elements may be configured to be selectively opaque or transparent to enable various effects. For example in one embodiment each barrier element may have a round square or rectangular shape and barrier element array may have any number of rows of barrier elements that extend a vertical length of barrier element array . In another embodiment each barrier element may have a band shape that extends a vertical length of barrier element array such that barrier element array includes a single horizontal row of barrier elements. Each barrier element may include one or more of such bands and different regions of barrier element array may include barrier elements that include different numbers of such bands.

One advantage of such a configuration where barrier elements extend a vertical length of barrier element array is that such barrier elements do not need to have spacing between them because there is no need for drive signal routing in such space. For instance in a two dimensional LCD array configuration such as TFT thin film transistor display a transistor plus capacitor circuit is typically placed onsite at the corner of a single pixel in the array and drive signals for such transistors are routed between the LCD pixels row column control for example . In a pixel configuration for a parallax barrier local transistor control may not be necessary because barrier elements may not need to be changing as rapidly as display pixels e.g. pixels of pixel array . For a single row of vertical bands of barrier elements drive signals may be routed to the top and or bottom of barrier elements. Because in such a configuration drive signal routing between rows is not needed the vertical bands can be arranged side by side with little to no space in between. Thus if the vertical bands are thin and oriented edge to edge one band or multiple adjacent bands e.g. five bands may comprise a barrier element in a blocking state followed by one band or multiple adjacent bands e.g. two bands that comprise a barrier element in a non blocking state a slit and so on. In the example of five bands in a blocking state and two bands in a non blocking state the five bands may combine to offer a single black barrier element of approximately 2.5 times the width of a single transparent slit with no spaces therein.

It is noted that in some embodiments barrier elements may be capable of being completely transparent or opaque and in other embodiments barrier elements may not be capable of being fully transparent or opaque. For instance such barrier elements may be capable of being 95 transparent when considered to be transparent and may be capable of being 5 transparent when considered to be opaque. Transparent and opaque as used herein are intended to encompass barrier elements being substantially transparent e.g. greater than 75 transparent including completely transparent and substantially opaque e.g. less than 25 transparent including completely opaque respectively.

Display driver circuit receives control signal and content signal . As described below content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display. Control signal may be control signal of for a non adaptable parallax barrier or may be control signal of for an adaptable parallax barrier . Control signal may be received from a display driver of an operating system e.g. may be control signal received from display driver in . Display driver circuit is configured to generate drive signals based on control signal and content signal to enable display system to display two dimensional and three dimensional images to users in viewing space . For example pixel array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by pixel array e.g. based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause pixels of pixel array to emit light of particular desired colors and or intensity. Barrier array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by barrier element array e.g. based on control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause each of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent or opaque. In this manner barrier element array filters light to generate filtered light that includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by users in viewing space . Example further description of implementations of the display driver circuits described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 titled Integrated Backlighting Sub Pixel and Display Driver Circuitry Supporting Adaptive 213 Stereoscopic 3D and Multi View 3D Displays filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety although the described herein are not limited to such implementations.

For example drive signal may control sets of pixels of pixel array to each emit light representative of a respective image to provide a plurality of images. Drive signal may control barrier elements of barrier element array to filter the light received from pixel array according to the provided images such that one or more of the images are received by users in two dimensional form. For instance drive signal may select one or more sets of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to transmit one or more corresponding two dimensional images or views to users . Furthermore drive signal may control sections of barrier element array to include opaque and transparent barrier elements to filter the light received from pixel array so that one or more pairs of images or views provided by pixel array are each received by users as a corresponding three dimensional image or view. For example drive signal may select parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to form slits that enable three dimensional images to be received by users .

In embodiments drive signal may be generated by barrier array driver circuit to configure one or more characteristics of barrier element array . For example drive signal may be generated to form any number of parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to modify the number and or spacing of parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent to select and or modify a width and or a length in barrier elements of one or more strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent or opaque to select and or modify an orientation of one or more strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent to select one or more areas of barrier element array to include all transparent or all opaque barrier elements etc.

Backlighting is a backlight panel that emits light . Light element array or backlight array of backlighting includes a two dimensional array of light sources. Such light sources may be arranged for example in a rectangular grid. Each light source in light element array is individually addressable and controllable to select an amount of light emitted thereby. A single light source may comprise one or more light emitting elements depending upon the implementation. In one embodiment each light source in light element array comprises a single light emitting diode LED although this example is not intended to be limiting. Further description of implementations of backlighting and other backlighting implementations described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 titled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of backlighting e.g. a surface of the backlight panel . As described above barrier element array is a layer of parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Barrier element array filters light received from backlighting to generate filtered light . Filtered light is configured to enable a two dimensional image or a three dimensional image e.g. formed by a pair of two dimensional images in filtered light to be formed based on images subsequently imposed on filtered light by pixel array .

Similarly to pixel array of pixel array of includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution . However pixel array is not self illuminating and instead is a light filter that imposes images e.g. in the form of color grayscale etc. on filtered light from parallax barrier to generate filtered light to include one or more images. Each pixel of pixel array may be a separately addressable filter e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary the color imposed on the corresponding light passing through and or to vary the intensity of the passed light in filtered light . In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Display driver circuit of is configured to generate drive signals based on control signal and or content signal to enable display system to display two dimensional and three dimensional images to users in viewing space . For example light source driver circuit within display driver circuit controls the amount of light emitted by each light source in light element array by generating a drive signal that is received by light element array based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to control the amount of light emitted by each light source in light element array to generate light . As described above barrier array driver circuit is configured to generate drive signal received by barrier element array e.g. based on control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause each of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent or opaque to filter light to generate filtered light . Pixel array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by pixel array e.g. based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause pixels of pixel array to impose desired images e.g. colors grayscale etc. on filtered light as it passes through pixel array . In this manner pixel array generates filtered light that includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by users in viewing space .

For example drive signal may control sets of light sources of light element array to emit light . Drive signal may control barrier elements of barrier element array to filter light received from light element array to enable filtered light to enable two and or three dimensionality. Drive signal may control sets of pixels of pixel array to filter filtered light according to respective images to provide a plurality of images. For instance drive signal may select one or more sets of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to enable one or more corresponding two dimensional images to be delivered to users . Furthermore drive signal may control sections of barrier element array to include opaque and transparent barrier elements to filter the light received from light element array so that one or more pairs of images provided by pixel array are each enabled to be received by users as a corresponding three dimensional image. For example drive signal may select parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to form slits that enable three dimensional images to be received by users .

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received at an array of barrier elements. For example as shown in light is received at parallax barrier from pixel array . Each pixel of pixel array may generate light that is received at parallax barrier . Depending on the particular display mode of parallax barrier parallax barrier may filter light from pixel array to generate a two dimensional image or a three dimensional image viewable in viewing space by users . As described above with respect to alternatively light may be received by parallax barrier from light element array .

In step a first set of the barrier elements of the array of barrier elements is configured in the blocking state and a second set of the barrier elements of the array of barrier elements is configured in the non blocking state to enable a viewer to be delivered a three dimensional view. Three dimensional image content may be provided for viewing in viewing space . In such case referring to barrier array driver circuit may generate drive signal to configure barrier element array to include transparent strips of barrier elements to enable a three dimensional view to be formed. For example as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of barrier elements that are each either transparent in a non blocking state or opaque in a blocking state . Barrier elements that are blocking are indicated as barrier elements and barrier elements that are non blocking are indicated as barrier elements . Further barrier elements may be included in barrier element array that are not visible in . Each of barrier elements and may include one or more barrier elements. Barrier elements alternate with barrier elements in series in the order of barrier elements and . In this manner blocking barrier elements are alternated with non blocking barrier elements to form a plurality of parallel non blocking or transparent slits in barrier element array .

For instance shows a view of a parallax barrier with transparent slits according to an exemplary embodiment. Parallax barrier is an example of parallax barrier of . As shown in parallax barrier includes barrier element array which includes a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. Furthermore as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking strips or slits . As shown in parallel non blocking strips non blocking slits are alternated with parallel blocking or blocking strips of barrier elements that are selected to be blocking. In the example of non blocking strips and blocking strips each have a width along the x dimension of two barrier elements and have lengths that extend along the entire y dimension twenty barrier elements of barrier element array although in other embodiments may have alternative dimensions. Non blocking strips and blocking strips form a parallax barrier configuration for parallax barrier . The spacing and number of parallel non blocking strips in barrier element array may be selectable by choosing any number and combination of particular strips of barrier elements in barrier element array to be non blocking to be alternated with blocking strips as desired. For example hundreds thousands or even larger numbers of non blocking strips and blocking strips may be present in parallax barrier .

Referring back to in step the light is filtered at the array of barrier elements to form the three dimensional view in a viewing space. Barrier element array of parallax barrier is configured to filter light received from pixel array or light received from light element array according to whether barrier element array is transparent or non blocking e.g. in a two dimensional mode or includes parallel non blocking strips e.g. in a three dimensional mode . If one or more regions of barrier element array are transparent those regions of barrier element array function as all pass filters to substantially pass all of light as filtered light to deliver one or more corresponding two dimensional images generated by pixel array to viewing space to be viewable as a two dimensional images in a similar fashion as a conventional display. If barrier element array includes one or more regions having parallel non blocking strips e.g. as shown for barrier element array in those regions of barrier element array pass a portion of light as filtered light to deliver one or more corresponding three dimensional images to viewing space .

For example as shown in pixel array includes a plurality of pixels and . Pixels alternate with pixels such that pixels and are arranged in series in the order of pixels and . Further pixels may be included in pixel array that are not visible in including further pixels along the width dimension of pixel array e.g. in the left right directions as well as pixels along a length dimension of pixel array not visible in . Each of pixels and generates light which emanates from display surface of pixel array e.g. generally upward in towards barrier element array . Some example indications of light emanating from pixels and are shown in as dotted lines including light and light emanating from pixel light light and light emanating from pixel etc.

Furthermore light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space including a first image at a first location and a second image at a second location . A portion of the light emanating from pixel array is blocked by blocking barrier elements while another portion of the light emanating from pixel array passes through non blocking barrier elements according to the filtering by barrier element array . For instance light from pixel is blocked by blocking barrier element and light and light from pixel are blocked by blocking barrier elements and respectively. In contrast light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element and light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element

By forming parallel non blocking slits in a barrier element array light from a pixel array can be filtered to form multiple images or views in a viewing space. For instance system shown in is configured to form first and second images and at locations and respectively which are positioned at a distance from pixel array as shown in further instances of first and second images and may be formed in viewing space according to system in a repeating alternating fashion . As described above pixel array includes a first set of pixels and a second set of pixels . Pixels correspond to first image and pixels correspond to second image . Due to the spacing of pixels and in pixel array and the geometry of non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array first and second images and are formed at locations and respectively. As shown in light from the first set of pixels is focused at location to form first image at location . Light from the second set of pixels is focused at location to form second image at location

First and second images and are configured to be perceived by a user as a three dimensional image or view. For example a viewer may receive first image at a first eye location and second image at a second eye location according to an exemplary embodiment. First and second images and may be generated by first set of pixels and second set of pixels as images that are slightly different perspective from each other. Images and are combined in the visual center of the brain of the viewer to be perceived as a three dimensional image or view. In such an embodiment first and second images and may be formed by display system such that their centers are spaced apart a width of a user s pupils e.g. an interocular distance .

Note that in the embodiments of the entire regions of parallax barriers and are filled with parallel non blocking strips e.g. as shown for barrier element array in to be configured to deliver three dimensional images to viewing space . In further embodiments one or more regions of a parallax barrier may be filled with parallel non blocking strips to deliver three dimensional images and one or more other regions of the parallax barrier may be transparent to deliver two dimensional images. Furthermore different regions of a parallax barrier that have parallel non blocking strips may have the parallel non blocking strips oriented at different angles to deliver three dimensional images to viewers that are oriented differently.

For instance shows a view of a parallax barrier configured to enable the simultaneous display of two dimensional and three dimensional images at different regions according to exemplary embodiments. Parallax barrier is similar to parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. In a first region of barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips that together fill first region . A second region of barrier element array is surrounded by first region . Second region is a rectangular shaped region of barrier element array that includes a two dimensional array of barrier elements that are non blocking. Thus in barrier element array is configured to enable a three dimensional image to be generated by pixels of a pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements of first region and to enable a two dimensional image to be generated by pixels of the pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements inside of second region . Note that alternatively first region may include all non blocking barrier elements to pass a two dimensional image and second region may include parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips to pass a three dimensional image. In further embodiments parallax barrier may have additional numbers sizes and arrangements of regions configured to pass different combinations of two dimensional images and three dimensional images.

In another example shows a view of a parallax barrier with transparent slits having different orientations according to an exemplary embodiment. Parallax barrier is similar to parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. A first region e.g. a bottom half of barrier element array includes a first plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a first plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of two barrier elements . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of three barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a first direction e.g. along a vertical axis .

Furthermore as shown in a second region e.g. a top half of barrier element array includes a second plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a second plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of one barrier element . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of two barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a second direction e.g. along a horizontal axis .

As such in first and second pluralities of parallel non blocking strips and are present in barrier element array that are oriented perpendicularly to each other. The region of barrier element array that includes first plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space as described above to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented vertically e.g. sitting upright or standing up . The region of barrier element array that includes second plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space as described above to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented horizontally e.g. laying down . In this manner users who are oriented differently relative to each other can still each be provided with a corresponding three dimensional image that accommodates their position.

As described above in an embodiment display device of may be configured to generate a two dimensional image for viewing by users in a viewing space. For instance referring to barrier element array may be configured into a third configuration to deliver a two dimensional view. In the third configuration barrier array driver circuit may generate drive signal to configure each barrier element of barrier element array to be in the non blocking state transparent . If barrier element array is non blocking barrier element array functions as an all pass filter to substantially pass all of light or light as filtered light to deliver the two dimensional image to viewing space to be viewable as a two dimensional image in a similar fashion as a conventional display.

In embodiments display systems may be configured to generate multiple two dimensional images or views for viewing by users in a viewing space. For example shows a display system configured to deliver two two dimensional images according to an embodiment. Display system is configured similarly to display system of . As shown in display system includes pixel array and barrier element array which generate first and second images and . As shown in a first viewer receives first image at a first location and a second viewer receives second image at a second location according to an exemplary embodiment. Similarly to the description provided above with respect to first and second images and may be generated by first set of pixels and second set of pixels of pixel array . However rather than first and second images and being images that are of different perspective first and second images and are each a two dimensional image that may be viewed independently from each other. For instance image and image may generated by display system from first media content and second media content respectively that are independent of each other. Image may be received by both eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first two dimensional image and image may be received by both eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second two dimensional image. Thus first and second images and may be generated to have a spacing that enables them to be separately viewed by first and second users and

As such display system of can be configured to deliver a single three dimensional view to a viewer e.g. as shown in for display system to deliver a pair of two dimensional views to a pair of viewers e.g. as shown in or to deliver a pair of three dimensional views to a pair of viewers as described above . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering views to one and two viewers by turning off or turning on respectively the display of media content by pixel array associated with one of the viewers e.g. by turning off or on pixels associated with second image . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering two dimensional and three dimensional views by providing the corresponding media content type at pixel array . Furthermore display system may provide such capabilities when configured similarly to display system shown in e.g. including backlighting .

In an embodiment display system may be configured to generate multiple three dimensional images that include related image content e.g. each three dimensional image is a different viewpoint of a common scene or that each include unrelated image content for viewing by users in a viewing space. Each of the three dimensional images may correspond to a pair of images generated by pixels of the pixel array. The barrier element array filters light from the pixel array to form the image pairs in a viewing space to be perceived by users as three dimensional images.

For instance shows a flowchart for generating multiple three dimensional images according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a cross sectional view of a display system . Display system is an exemplary embodiment of system shown in and is shown for purposes of illustration. As shown in system includes a pixel array and a barrier element array . System may also include display driver circuit of which is not shown in for ease of illustration. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received from an array of pixels that includes a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For instance in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Each of pixels generates light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards barrier element array . Each set of pixels generates a corresponding image. First set of pixels and third set of pixels are configured to generate images that combine to form a first three dimensional image. Second set of pixels and fourth set of pixels are configured to generate images that combine to form a second three dimensional image. Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

As described above in the current embodiment pixel array is segmented into a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For instance in the example of pixel array is segmented into four sets of pixels. The first set of pixels includes pixels and the other pixels in the same columns the second set of pixels includes pixels and the other pixels in the same columns pixels and the other pixels in the same columns and pixels and the other pixels in the same columns.

In step a plurality of strips of barrier elements of a barrier element array is selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking slits. As shown in barrier element array includes barrier elements that are each either non blocking or blocking. Barrier elements that are blocking are indicated as barrier elements and barrier elements that are non blocking are indicated as barrier elements . Further barrier elements may be included in barrier element array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of barrier elements etc. Each of barrier elements and may include one or more barrier elements. Barrier elements alternate with barrier elements . In this manner blocking barrier elements are alternated with non blocking barrier elements to form a plurality of parallel non blocking slits in barrier element array .

In step the light is filtered at the barrier element array to form a plurality of pairs of images in a viewing space corresponding to the plurality of pairs of sets of pixels each pair of images of the plurality of pairs of images being configured to be perceived as a corresponding three dimensional image of a plurality of three dimensional images. As shown in light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space . For instance four images are formed in viewing space including first fourth images . Pixels correspond to first image pixels correspond to second image pixels correspond to third image and pixels correspond to fourth image . As shown in light from the first set of pixels forms first image and light from the third set of pixels forms third image due to the filtering of the non blocking slits corresponding to non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array . Although not indicated in for ease of illustration in a similar fashion light from the second set of pixels forms second image and light from the fourth set of pixels forms fourth image

In the embodiment of any pair of images of images may be configured to be perceived as a three dimensional image by a user in viewing space . For instance first and third images and may be configured to be perceived by a user as a first three dimensional image such that first image is received at a first eye location and third image is received at a second eye location of a user. Furthermore second and fourth images and may be configured to be perceived by a user as a second three dimensional image such that second image is received at a first eye location and fourth image is received at a second eye location of a user.

In the example of two three dimensional images are provided by system . In further embodiments further numbers of three dimensional images may be provided including a third three dimensional image a fourth three dimensional image etc. In such case each three dimensional image is generated by filtering light using a barrier element array corresponding to an image pair generated by a corresponding pair of sets of pixels of the pixel array in a similar fashion as described with respect to for two three dimensional images. For example to provide three three dimensional images pixel array may include fifth and sixth sets of pixels that generate fifth and sixth images respectively to be perceived by a user as a third three dimensional image. To provide a fourth three dimensional image pixel array may include seventh and eighth sets of pixels that generate seventh and eighth images respectively to be perceived by a user as the fourth three dimensional image.

In the first and second three dimensional images generated based on first and third images and and second and fourth images and respectively and any further three dimensional images that may be generated may include related image content or may each include unrelated image content. For example in an embodiment the first and second three dimensional images and any further three dimensional images may have been captured as different viewpoints of a common scene. Thus a user in viewing space that moves laterally to sequentially view the first and second three dimensional images and any further three dimensional images may perceive being able to partially or fully view behind objects of the common scene.

Further description regarding using a parallax barrier to deliver three dimensional views including adaptable versions of parallax barriers is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 titled Display With Adaptable Parallax Barrier in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 titled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D And Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions and in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 titled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views which are each incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

In embodiments as described herein display devices and of may include one or more lenticular lenses as light manipulators and used to deliver three dimensional images and or two dimensional images. For instance display systems and of may each include a sub lens array of a lenticular lens in place of parallax barrier . For example shows a perspective view of a lenticular lens in accordance with an embodiment. As shown in lenticular lens includes a sub lens array . Sub lens array includes a plurality of sub lenses arranged in a two dimensional array e.g. arranged side by side in a row . Each sub lens is shown in as generally cylindrical in shape and having a substantially semi circular cross section but in other embodiments may have other shapes. In sub lens array is shown to include eight sub lenses for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting. For instance sub lens array may include any number e.g. hundreds thousands etc. of sub lenses . shows a side view of lenticular lens oriented as lenticular lens may be positioned in system of in place of parallax barrier for lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views. In light may be passed through lenticular lens in the direction of dotted arrow to be diverted.

In one embodiment lenticular lens may be fixed in size. For example light manipulator of may include lenticular lens when fixed in size. In another embodiment lenticular lens may be adaptable. For instance light manipulator of may include lenticular lens when adaptable. For instance in an embodiment lenticular lens may be made from an elastic material. Such a lenticular lens may be adapted in size in response to generated drive signals.

Further description regarding using a lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views including adaptable versions of lenticular lenses is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Display devices and may include multiple layers of light manipulators in embodiments. Multiple three dimensional images may be displayed in a viewing space using multiple light manipulator layers according to embodiments. In embodiments the multiple light manipulating layers may enable spatial separation of the images. For instance in such an embodiment for example a display device that includes multiple light manipulator layers may be configured to display a first three dimensional image in a first region of a viewing space e.g. a left side area a second three dimensional image in a second region of the viewing space e.g. a central area a third three dimensional image in a third region of the viewing space e.g. a right side area etc. In embodiments a display device may be configured to display any number of spatially separated three dimensional images as desired for a particular application e.g. according to a number and spacing of viewers in the viewing space etc. .

For instance shows a flowchart for generating multiple three dimensional images using multiple light manipulator layers according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a cross sectional view of a display system that includes multiple light manipulator layers according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in system includes a display driver circuit an image generator a first light manipulator and a second light manipulator . As shown in image generator includes pixel array first light manipulator includes first light manipulator elements and second light manipulator includes second light manipulator elements . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit includes a pixel array driver circuit and a light manipulator driver circuit . Flowchart and system are described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received from an array of pixels that includes a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For example as shown in light is received at first light manipulator from pixel array of image generator . Pixel array driver circuit may generate driver signals based on content signal received by display driver circuit and the driver signals may be received by pixel array to generate light . Each pixel of pixel array may generate light that is received at first light manipulator . In an embodiment pixel array driver circuit may generate drive signal to cause pixel array to emit light containing a plurality of images corresponding to the sets of pixels.

In step the light from the array of pixels is manipulated with a first light manipulator. For example first light manipulator may be configured to manipulate light received from pixel array . As shown in first light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating e.g. filtering diverting etc. of light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by first light manipulator . First light manipulator may perform filtering in a similar manner as a parallax barrier described above or in other manner. In another embodiment first light manipulator may include a lenticular lens that diverts light to perform light manipulating generating manipulated light . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuit may generate drive signal based on control signal received by display driver to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate light as desired.

In step the light manipulated by the first light manipulator is manipulated with a second light manipulator to form a plurality of pairs of images corresponding to the plurality of pairs of sets of pixels in a viewing space. For example as shown in manipulated light is received by second light manipulator to generate manipulated light that includes a plurality of three dimensional images formed in viewing space . As shown in second light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating of manipulated light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by second light manipulator . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuit may generate drive signal based on control signal to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light including three dimensional images as desired. In embodiments second light manipulator may include a parallax barrier or a lenticular lens configured to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light .

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array first light manipulator second light manipulator that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to a first viewer a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to a second viewer and optionally further three dimensional views based on further three dimensional media content to further viewers. First and second light manipulators and each cause three dimensional media content to be presented to a corresponding viewer via a corresponding area of the single viewing plane with each viewer being enabled to view corresponding media content without viewing media content directed to other viewers. Furthermore the areas of the single viewing plane that provide the various three dimensional views of media content overlap each other at least in part. In the embodiment of the areas may be the same area an area of a display screen or surface of display system . As such multiple three dimensional views that are each viewable by a corresponding viewer may be delivered by a single display viewing plane.

Display system may be configured in various ways to generate multiple three dimensional images according to flowchart in embodiments. Furthermore as described below embodiments of display system may be configured to generate two dimensional views as well as any combination of one or more two dimensional views simultaneously with one or more three dimensional views.

For instance in an embodiment delivery of three dimensional images may be performed in system using multiple parallax barriers. shows a cross sectional view of a display system according to an exemplary embodiment. Display system is an example of system shown in . As shown in system includes a pixel array a first barrier element array and a second barrier element array . System may also include display driver circuit of which is not shown in for ease of illustration. System is described as follows.

As shown in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

Each of pixels and is configured to generate light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards first barrier element array . Each set of pixels is configured to generate a corresponding image. For example shows display system where pixels of pixel array emit light. Light from second set of pixels and first set of pixels is configured to generate third and fourth images and respectively which may be perceived together as a second three dimensional image by a second viewer . Light from fourth set of pixels and third set of pixels is configured to generate first and second images and respectively which may be perceived together as a first three dimensional image by a first viewer . The light emitted by the sets of pixels is filtered by first and second barrier element arrays and to generate the first and second three dimensional images in respective desired regions of a user space adjacent to display system .

First fourth images may be formed in viewing space at a distance from pixel array and at a lateral location of viewing space as determined by a configuration of display system of including a width and spacing of non blocking slits in first barrier element array by a width and positioning of non blocking slits in second barrier element array by a spacing between pixel array and first barrier element array and a spacing between first and second barrier element arrays and .

In an embodiment system of may be configured similarly to display system of to deliver three dimensional images and or two dimensional images. For instance in embodiments system may include backlighting and pixel array separated by one or both of first and second light manipulators and . For example shows a block diagram of a display system which is an example of display devices and shown in according to an embodiment. Display system is configured to display multiple three dimensional images in a viewing space in a spatially separated manner. As shown in system includes display driver circuit backlighting first light manipulator second light manipulator and pixel array . As shown in backlighting optionally includes light element array first light manipulator includes first light manipulator elements and second light manipulator includes second light manipulator elements . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit receives control signal and content signal and includes light source driver circuit light manipulator driver circuit and pixel array driver circuit . Light source driver circuit light manipulator driver circuit and pixel array driver circuit may generate drives signals to perform their respective functions based on control signal and or content signal . As shown in first and second light manipulators and are positioned between backlighting and pixel array . In another embodiment pixel array may instead be located between first and second light manipulators and

As shown in display driver circuit receives content signal and as shown in display driver circuit receives content signal . Content signal is an example of content signals and of . Content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display by the respective display devices systems. For instance display driver circuits and generate respective drive signals e.g. pixel array drive signals based on content signal to enable the content carried by content signal to be displayed.

As described above light manipulators may be reconfigured to change the locations of delivered views based on changing viewer positions. As such a position of a viewer may be determined tracked so that a parallax barrier and or light manipulator may be reconfigured to deliver views consistent with the changing position of the viewer. For instance with regard to a parallax barrier a spacing number arrangement and or other characteristic of slits may be adapted according to the changing viewer position. With regard to a lenticular lens a size of the lenticular lens may be adapted e.g. stretched compressed according to the changing viewer position. In embodiments a position of a viewer may be determined tracked by determining a position of the viewer directly or by determining a position of a device associated with the viewer e.g. a device worn by the viewer held by the viewer sitting in the viewer s lap in the viewer s pocket sitting next the viewer etc. .

Examples of display environments for display embodiments described herein include environments having a single viewer as well as environments having multiple viewers. For example in one type of environment e.g. an office living room etc. a single viewer interacts with an electronic device mobile or stationary to view and or interact with mixed 2D and 3D content such as a mobile or desktop computer smart phone television or other mobile or stationary device. It is noted that this type of environment may include more than one viewer. In another type of environment e.g. a living room a home theatre room etc. multiple viewers are enabled to interact with an electronic device such as a television set e.g. high def small screen large screen etc. to view and or interact with mixed 2D and 3D content in the form of television content movies video games etc.

For instance shows a block diagram of a display environment according to an exemplary embodiment. In the example of first and second viewers and are present in display environment and are enabled to interact with a display device to be delivered two dimensional and or three dimensional media content. Although two viewers are shown present in in other embodiments other numbers of viewers may be present in display environment that may interact with display device and may be delivered media content by display device . As shown in display environment includes display device a first remote control a second remote control a first headset a second headset and viewers and . Display device is an example of the display devices described above and may be configured similarly to any display device described herein including display device . Viewer is delivered a view by display device and viewer is delivered a view by display device . Views and may each be a two dimensional view or a three dimensional view. Furthermore in embodiments view may be delivered to viewer but not be visible by viewer and view may be delivered to viewer but not be visible by viewer

Remote control is a device that viewer may use to interact with display device and remote control is a device that viewer may use to interact with display device . For example as shown in viewer may interact with a user interface of remote control to generate a display control signal and viewer may interact with a user interface of remote control to generate a display control signal . Display control signals and may be transmitted to display device using wireless or wired communication links. Display control signals and may be configured to select particular content desired to be viewed by viewers and respectively. For example display control signals and may select particular media content to be viewed e.g. television channels video games DVD digital video discs content video tape content web content etc. . Display control signals and may select whether such media content is desired to be viewed in two dimensional or three dimensional form by viewers and respectively. Remote controls and may be television remote control devices game controllers smart phones or other remote control type device.

Headsets and are worn by viewers and respectively. Headsets and each include one or two speakers e.g. earphones that enable viewers and to hear audio associated with the media content of views and . Headsets and enable viewers and to hear audio of their respective media content without hearing audio associated the media content of the other of viewers and . Headsets and may each optionally include a microphone to enable viewers and to interact with display device using voice commands.

Display device headset and or remote control may operate to provide position information regarding viewers to display device and display device headset and or remote control may operate to provide position information regarding viewers to display device . Display device may use position information and to reconfigure one or more light manipulators e.g. parallax barriers and or lenticular lenses of display device to enable views and to be delivered to viewers and respectively at various locations. For example display device headset and or remote control may use positioning techniques to track the position of viewer and display device headset and or remote control may use positioning techniques to track the position of viewer

Embodiments may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example application operating system mixed 2D 3D supporting logic API operating system display driver application program 2D region setup and control code module 3Dx region setup and control code module multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module 2D 3Dx content generator 2D 3Dx content processor OS user input interfaces 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface shell operations 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services API supporting regional 2D 3Dx 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant mixed 2D and 3Ds driver variant translation services application program display driver SDK compiled code compiler mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules compiled mixed 2D 3D display supporting program code 2D display supporting module 3Dx display supporting library module mixed 2D 3Dx display supporting library module display configuration command code content display command code content translation code first translator and or second translator may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors and or as circuit logic.

For instance shows a block diagram of an example implementation of an electronic device according to an embodiment. In embodiments electronic device may include one or more of the elements shown in . As shown in the example of electronic device may include one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. In some embodiments processor can simultaneously operate multiple computing threads.

Electronic device also includes a primary or main memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored therein control logic A computer software and data.

Electronic device also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage devices include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards and memory sticks. For instance electronic device may include an industry standard interface such a universal serial bus USB interface for interfacing with devices such as a memory stick. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

As shown in secondary storage devices may include an operating system and an application . Embodiments for operating system e.g. OS OS etc. and for application e.g. application application program application compiled code etc. are described in detail above.

Removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer usable or readable storage medium having stored therein computer software B control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Electronic device further includes a communication or network interface . Communication interface enables the electronic device to communicate with remote devices. For example communication interface allows electronic device to communicate over communication networks or mediums representing a form of a computer usable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Network interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer usable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to electronic device main memory secondary storage devices and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Devices in which embodiments may be implemented may include storage such as storage drives memory devices and further types of computer readable media. Examples of such computer readable storage media include a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like. As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to the hard disk associated with a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk e.g. CDROMs DVDs etc. zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices MEMS micro electromechanical systems storage nanotechnology based storage devices as well as other media such as flash memory cards digital video discs RAM devices ROM devices and the like. Such computer readable storage media may store program modules that include computer program logic for application operating system mixed 2D 3D supporting logic API operating system display driver application program 2D region setup and control code module 3Dx region setup and control code module multiple 2D 3Dx region setup and control code module 2D 3Dx content generator 2D 3Dx content processor OS user input interfaces 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface shell operations 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services API supporting regional 2D 3Dx 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant mixed 2D and 3Ds driver variant translation services application program display driver SDK compiled code compiler mixed 2D 3D display supporting library modules compiled mixed 2D 3D display supporting program code 2D display supporting module 3Dx display supporting library module mixed 2D 3Dx display supporting library module display configuration command code content display command code content translation code first translator second translator flowchart flowchart flowchart including any one or more steps of flowcharts and and or further embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention are directed to computer program products comprising such logic e.g. in the form of program code or software stored on any computer usable medium e.g. a computer readable storage medium . Such program code when executed in one or more processors causes a device to operate as described herein.

As described herein electronic device may be implemented in association with a variety of types of display devices. For instance electronic device may be one of a variety of types of media devices such as a stand alone display e.g. a television display such as flat panel display etc. a computer a game console a set top box a digital video recorder DVR other electronic device mentioned elsewhere herein etc. Media content that is delivered in two dimensional or three dimensional form according to embodiments described herein may be stored locally or received from remote locations. For instance such media content may be locally stored for playback replay TV DVR may be stored in removable memory e.g. DVDs memory sticks etc. may be received on wireless and or wired pathways through a network such as a home network through Internet download streaming through a cable network a satellite network and or a fiber network etc. For instance shows a first media content A that is stored in hard disk drive a second media content B that is stored in storage medium of removable storage unit and a third media content C that may be remotely stored and received over communication medium by communication interface . Media content may be stored and or received in these manners and or in other ways.

Media input interfaces includes one or more media input interfaces wired or wireless for received media such as those described elsewhere herein. For instance media input interface may include an interface for receiving media content from a local media player device such as a DVD player a memory stick a computer media player etc. and may include commercially available e.g. USB HDMI etc. or proprietary interfaces for receiving local media content. Media input interface may include an interface for receiving media content from a remote source such as the Internet satellite cable etc. and may include commercially available e.g. WLAN Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS etc. or proprietary interfaces for receiving remote media content.

Host processing circuitry may include one or more integrated circuit chips and or additional circuitry which may be configured to execute software firmware including operating system and application program .

User input devices includes one or more user input devices that a user may use to interact with display system . Examples of user input devices are described elsewhere herein such as a keyboard a mouse pointer etc.

Display processing circuitry may be included in host processing circuitry or may be separate from host processing circuitry as shown in . For instance display processing circuitry may include one or more processors e.g. graphics processors further circuitry and or other hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Display processing circuitry may be present to perform graphics processing tasks. For instance as shown in display processing circuitry may optionally include 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx and mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services to perform 2D 3D related translation services in addition or alternatively to translation services of OS and or application .

Adaptable display driver circuitry includes one or more display driver circuits for an adaptable display. Examples of adaptable display driver circuitry are described above such as with regard to .

Adaptable 2D 3Dx and mixed display includes a display that is adaptable and is capable of displaying 2D content 3D content and a mixture of 2D and or 3D content. Examples of adaptable 2D 3Dx and mixed display are described elsewhere herein.

First third interface circuitry is optional. For instance as shown in a communication infrastructure e.g. a signal bus may be present to couple signals of media input interfaces host processing circuitry user input devices display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and display . In an embodiment if display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display are contained in a common housing structure with host processing circuitry e.g. in a handheld device etc. interface circuitry may not be needed to be present. If display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display are in a separate housing structure from host processing circuitry corresponding interface circuitry may be present to provide an interface. For instance host processing circuitry may be in a game console a desktop computer tower a home audio receiver a set top box etc. and display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display may be included in a display device structure. In such case interface circuitry may not be present. When present first third circuitry may each include circuitry such as receivers and or transmitters wired or wireless for enabling communications between the respective one of display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and display and the other components of system e.g. host processing circuitry etc. .

Note that the embodiment of display system shown in is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. In further embodiments display system may include fewer additional and or alternative features than shown in .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

