---

title: Liquid level detecting device and sample applying system
abstract: Various embodiments disclose a liquid level detecting device and method, which comprises: a control unit configured to output control instructions corresponding to environmental information according to the environmental information of a location of a sampling needle; an amplifying unit configured to set a gain according to the control instructions; a converting unit configured to receive and convert a capacitance signal from the sampling needle to a voltage signal; the amplifying unit receives the voltage signal and amplifies the voltage signal according to the gain; the control unit receives the amplified voltage signal and compares the amplified voltage signals with a preset voltage threshold to determine whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level. Some embodiments further disclose a sample application system. Various embodiments consider both sensitivity and reliability of a detection system and is adaptable to various detection environments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08358216&OS=08358216&RS=08358216
owner: Shenzhen Mindray Bio-Medical Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08358216
owner_city: Nanshan, Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20100408
---
This application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 200910106574.6 filed on Apr. 9 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Various embodiments relate to a methods and apparatus of a sample applying system. Some embodiments are directed at a liquid level detecting device in a sample applying system.

In the field of medicine a sample applying system or a sampling system hereinafter a sampling system is often needed for sampling and for adding and or pipetting samples and or reaction solution. In a sample applying system the location of the sampling needle is positioned based at least in part on the detection of the liquid level. That is the sampling system preferably stops advancing the sampling needle or device when the sampling needle contacts the object liquid level so as to carry out the next task. This function may be realized by a liquid level detecting device.

The liquid level detecting device converts capacitance change in the sampling needle into voltage or potential change and determines whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level based at least in part on this change in capacitance. In operation because different specific conditions of detecting positions may have different manner or magnitude of influences on the capacitance change of the sampling needle detection results often vary as well. For example when the sampling needle enters an environment such as a metal container the capacitance change of the sampling needle itself is relatively apparent and thus tends to lead to incorrect detection of the liquid level. Whereas in the case of a plastic container or when the container contains relatively little amount of liquid the capacitance change of the sampling needle is relatively weak or insignificant in comparison to the change in capacitance due to the contact with the liquid surface and thus may result in a lowered sensitivity in detection. This lowered sensitivity in detection of the liquid level often leads to a scenario that no result may be obtained quickly even when the sampling needle has indeed contacted the liquid level.

For sampling systems particularly sampling systems utilizing the liquid level detecting device it is desired that the sampling system may both detect liquid level with high sensitivity and avoid incorrect detection in an environment where the container or the amount of liquid in the container may skew the detection. However it is difficult for conventional liquid level detecting devices to meet such requirements because these conventional liquid level detection devices tend to cause errors in test results when it is needed to perform detection under various complex environments.

Various embodiments are directed at a liquid level detecting device that is characterized by being capable of adapting to different detection environments with high sensitivity and reliability.

In some embodiments a liquid level detecting device includes a control unit configured to output control instructions corresponding to environmental information according to at least the environmental information of a location of a sampling needle an optional amplifying unit configured to set a gain according to the control instructions a converting unit configured to receive a capacitance signal from the sampling needle and output a corresponding voltage signal after conversion wherein the optional amplifying unit receives the corresponding voltage signal and optionally amplifies the voltage signal according to the set gain to output the amplified voltage signal and the control unit receives the optionally amplified voltage signal and determines whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level according to the optional amplified voltage signal.

Various embodiments also provide a sample applying system which includes a sampling needle and a liquid level detecting device wherein the sampling needle is configured to detect a liquid level and generates a changed capacitance value after contacting the liquid level and the converting unit of the liquid level detecting device is connected with the sampling needle.

Various embodiments will hereinafter be further described in details by specific implementations with reference to the drawings.

In some embodiments the liquid level detecting device sets the gain factor of the amplifying unit according to the environment where the sampling needle locates or operates optionally amplifies liquid level signals from the sampling needle according to the set gain and then determines whether the sampling needle contacts the surface based at least in part upon the optionally amplified liquid level signals.

In some embodiments where the environment that the sampling needle is located or operates exhibits an influence which exceeds a predetermined threshold level on the capacitance of the sampling needle and thereby renders the change in the capacitance of the sampling needle significant the gain of the amplifying unit may be lowered to a predetermined level to determine whether the sampling needle detects the liquid level while ensuring sensitivity in order to prevent the sampling needle from generating less than desired detection of the liquid level when the sampling needle has not actually contacted the liquid level. In some embodiments where the environment in which the sampling needle is located or operates exhibits certain influence which is less than a predetermined threshold level on the capacitance of the sampling needle and thereby renders the change in the capacitance of sampling needle insignificant so as to cause incorrect detection of the liquid level the gain of the amplifying unit may be increased by a predetermined level to determine whether the sampling needle actually contacts the liquid surface or whether the liquid surface detection device correctly detects the liquid level while ensuring reliability in the detection in order to avoid system failure in determining that the sampling needle has contacted the liquid level. In these embodiments by setting gains corresponding to the environment where the sampling needle operates or is located the liquid level detecting device may accommodate both sensitivity in its detection of the liquid level and reliability in the detection results of the detection system. In these embodiments the liquid level detecting device may be adapted to various detection environments which exhibits different levels of influence on the sensitivity and or reliability of the liquid level detection device.

Referring to which illustrates an exemplary implementation of a sample applying system in some embodiments where the sample applying system includes a sampling needle and a liquid level detecting device .

In these embodiments the sampling needle is configured to detect a liquid level or the liquid surface and causes a change in the capacitance value after the sampling needle contacts the liquid surface. In these embodiments or in some other embodiments a double contained tube structure may be utilized for the sampling needle and a capacitance may exist between the inner and outer tube of the double contained tube structure which may exhibit similar behavior as a capacitor. When the sampling needle contacts the liquid surface the capacitance of the sampling needle may change. The capacitance signals or value s of the sampling needle may be detected via the liquid level detecting device which may further determine whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level by monitoring the capacitance signals or values.

In some embodiments the capacitance signal s or value s from a sampling needle may be first converted into a voltage or an electric potential. In some embodiments converting the capacitance signal s or value s may comprise a direct conversion means or an indirect conversion means which for example converts capacitance or electrical potential into electric current first and then converts the electric current into voltage or electric potential.

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the liquid level detecting device includes a conversion unit an amplification unit and a control unit . The control unit is operatively configured to control the sampling needle to move to certain locations and generate one or more corresponding control instructions to be transmitted to the amplifying unit according to the information of the target location to which the sampling needle needs to be moved. The amplification unit adjusts the gain according to the one or more control instructions. A sample application system may be disposed at different locations with different operating conditions or environment.

For example the sample application system may be disposed in an environment that is fully or partially enclosed in a metallic enclosure in some embodiments. In some embodiments the reaction disc may be made entirely or partially of metal. In some embodiments the reaction cup may be made entirely or partially of metal. All of the above may place the sampling needle in an environment which comprises in part or in whole metal that may interfere with the operation of the system after the sampling needle enters such an environment.

In some other embodiments there may exist a scenario where the liquid container is made of plastic but there exists very little liquid in the container. In these embodiments the control unit knows to which location the sampling needle needs to be moved and the control unit may thus control or adjust the gain of the amplification unit according to the target location to which the sampling needle is to be moved. The conversion unit converts the capacitance signals outputted by the sampling needle into corresponding voltage signals.

The amplification unit receives the voltage signals outputted by the conversion unit and amplifies the voltage signals according to the adjusted gain factor. The control unit receives the amplified voltage signals outputted by the amplification unit and compares the amplified voltage signals with a voltage threshold to determine whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level. The control unit may comprise a processor that is programmed for performing the data acquisition or analog to digital signal conversion in some embodiments. In some embodiments the data acquisition or the analog to digital signal conversion may be performed by one or more separate modules.

For example the control unit may comprise a module including a sampling unit an A D conversion unit and a processor in some embodiments. The control unit may also be configured or programmed to determine whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level according to the rate of change of the amplified voltage signals in some embodiments. For example the control unit may be configured to determine whether the sampling needle contacts the liquid level by comparing the rate of change of the amplified voltage signals with a threshold.

In this embodiment the amplification unit includes an operational amplifier A and a feedback module. The feedback module may be configured to feedback the signals at the output terminal s of the operational amplifier A to the inverse input terminal thereof in some embodiments. The gain of the operational amplifier A is associated with and dependent at least in part upon the impedance of the feedback module in these embodiments.

The operational amplifier A and the feedback module may jointly amplify the input signals in some embodiments. In these embodiments the operational amplifier A employs a common mode input configuration and the feedback module includes a feedback resistor Rf. The voltage signals outputted by the conversion unit are transmitted to the common mode input terminal of the operational amplifier A. Feedback signals at the output terminal of the operational amplifier A are transmitted to the inverse input terminal thereof through the feedback resistor Rf and the resistor R and hence introduce a negative feedback.

In order to adjust the gain of the operational amplifier A in some embodiments the output terminals of the feedback module may be connected to the control unit and the control unit outputs a corresponding control signal to the feedback module according to some environmental information concerning the location where the sampling needle is located or the environment within which the system operates. The control unit may then be configured to adjust one or more characteristics of the feedback signals such as the impedance based at least in part upon one or more control instructions.

In these embodiments the feedback resistor Rf comprises a digital or analog potentiometer whose control end receives one or more control instructions outputted by the control unit to control the potentiometer and hence provides feedback impedance resistance or voltage for the operational amplifier A.

In some embodiments the feedback resistor Rf may be replaced with or paired with one or more capacitive or inductive elements. Alternatively the feedback resistor Rf may also form a feedback impedance with a capacitive or inductive element in series in parallel or any combination thereof to implement the feedback module of the operational amplifier.

Various embodiments also encompass a method of detecting liquid level with the liquid level detecting device which is shown in and includes the following process.

At S before the sampling needle moves to the target location the control unit determines a target location to which the sampling needle needs to move according to one or more presets or user s instructions. Each target location corresponds to certain environmental information which may include location information in some embodiments. The control unit proceeds to S after determining the environment information and transmits one or more control instructions to the potentiometer. The environment information includes for example but not limited to location information corresponding to the location where the sampling needle is located. The process then proceeds to S.

At S the potentiometer sets the resistance or voltage value as required after receiving the one or more control instructions in some embodiments. For example the potentiometer may be configured to adjust the gain of the amplifying circuit The method then proceeds to S in some embodiments.

At S after setting the resistance or voltage values the sampling needle is caused to perform the detection at the designated location again in some embodiments. The needle capacitance change generated by the sampling needle may be processed to obtain a corresponding voltage change under the condition of the adjusted gain. Then the control unit compares the amplified voltage with a preset voltage threshold to determine whether the sampling needle detects the liquid level. The process then proceeds to S in the single embodiment or in some embodiments.

At S the control unit reports its determination result. S is carried out to implement the next task such as controlling the sampling needle for the next action such as sample suction or pipeting.

The digital potentiometer setting may then adjusted according to at least the aforementioned actions as required or desired to realize adaptation to various detection environments.

The operation of the liquid level detecting device will hereinafter be explained within various detection environments in the single embodiment or in some embodiments.

For features of various detection environments required by the system as shown in such as in a reaction cup that is enclosed in part or in whole by metal or within a container with a very small liquid dead volume in the single embodiment or in some embodiments. In the single embodiment or in some embodiments a dead volume constitutes a liquid volume which a system may detect normally. In the single embodiment or in some embodiments a dead volume constitutes a volume within a system at or below which the system may not guarantee consistent detection of its level or volume or may not consistently perform the suction or pipeting operation. For example a system may exhibit a dead volume to be 50 l and a single suction or pipeting amount required by the system is 10 l then for a sample amount above 60 l the system may consistently support normal tasks whereas for a sample amount at or below 60 l the system may not ensure that the test result is consistent.

The control unit transmits a gain control signal to the amplifying unit to set for example the resistance value of a digital potentiometer Rf hence determining the circuit gain under this condition in the single embodiment or in some embodiments. After setting the appropriate gain control the sampling needle moves to the target location to carry out a task. A conversion unit converts for example the capacitance change induced by the sampling needle into a voltage change and outputs the voltage change. After the voltage change is processed by a gain controllable amplifying unit an analog signal to be analyzed is obtained and the system may finally determine whether the liquid level is detected through analysis and determination by the control unit based at least in part upon the analog signal and may optionally report a result of the analysis and determination result .

In the single embodiment or in some embodiments it may be advantage or desirable that the sampling needle does not indicate detection of liquid or liquid level when there is in fact no liquid in the reaction cup that may be made of for example some metal material. Because the sampling needle is susceptible to interference caused by some metallic environment in which the needle capacitance may change due to the environment so as to affect the accuracy of detection the gain needs to be lowered in the single embodiment or in some embodiments to reduce the voltage change corresponding to the needle capacitance change caused by the interference from the environment. In these embodiments the aforementioned requirements may be satisfied if the control unit sets for example the resistance value of the digital potentiometer as 0.32 times the total resistance value which corresponds to a gain of about 4.1. At the same time the dead volume for various samples required by the system is very small e.g. 20 l for a container of a particular shape. In these embodiments the gain needs to be increased to amplify the voltage change corresponding to the capacitance change caused by the environment interference and the requirements may also be satisfied if the resistance value of the digital potentiometer is set as for example 0.85 times the total resistance value which corresponds to a gain of about 11. For other detection environments required by the system the same method may be applied where the gain control may vary according to the different environments.

In the aforementioned detection process the detection location and environment may be determined according to at least various different system designs or corresponding circuit gains for respective locations in various embodiments. In the single embodiment or in some embodiments the resistance values of a digital potentiometer may be obtained by direct measurements and or calculations or simulations and may be adjusted flexibly as desired.

In the single embodiment or in some embodiments the gain adjustment of the operational amplifier may be implemented by using at least a digital potentiometer and the adaptation to various detection environments or various detection locations may be realized by adjusting the gain of the detection signals hence considering both the sensitivity and the reliability.

In some other embodiments as shown in the sample application system further includes a rocking arm fixedly attached to a rocking lever . The rocking lever may move exhibit vertical horizontal or rotational such as pivoting about an axis movements in some embodiments. The rocking arm may be driven by the rocking lever to move vertically and to rotate horizontally. The sampling needle may be arranged on the rocking arm and may be driven by the rocking arm to move to the target location. The liquid level detecting device is provided in a cavity of the rocking arm to protect the circuitry and to connect the circuitry or the liquid level detecting device to the sampling needle. An interconnecting wire between the sampling needle and the liquid level detecting device may be used avoid undesired disturbance interference and or distortion in some embodiments. For example a shielded wire or cable or other forms of insulating a wire from external interference may be used to avoid such disturbance interference and or distortion.

In some embodiments the system may further comprise a feedback circuit for the operational amplifier A. For example in the embodiments shown in the feedback circuit includes an analog multi channel switch S that is serially connected between the output terminal and the inverse input terminal of the operational amplifier A. The feedback circuit may further comprise a plurality of resistors that are serially connected to each channel illustrates an exemplary configuration that comprises three channels of switches each of which is connected to a resistor resistor R R and R. The control end of the analog multi channel switch S is connected with the output terminal of the control unit to switch among the multiple resistors such as resistor R R and R according to control instructions. In these embodiments the analog multi channel switch S may be connected with an inverse input terminal of the operational amplifier A and the resistors are connected with the output terminal of the operational amplifier A as illustratively shown in .

In some other embodiments the analog multi channel switch S may be connected with the output terminal of the operational amplifier A and the resistors may be connected with an inverse input terminal of the operational amplifier A.

In some embodiments as shown in the feedback circuit includes at least one semiconductor switch Q that is serially connected between an output terminal and an inverse input terminal of the operational amplifier A and a resistor R that is serially connected to the semiconductor switch Q. The control terminal of the semiconductor switch Q is connected with the output terminal of the control unit to switch between on and off states according to the control signals in order to control whether resistor R is connected to the feedback circuit hence adjusting the gain of the amplifying unit.

In these embodiments the series circuit consisting of the semiconductor switch Q and the resistor R may also be connected in parallel with the resistor R between an output terminal and an inverse input terminal of the operational amplifier A. The resistance values may be modulated by for example controlling on and off states of the semiconductor switch Q. For example the switch may be open to connect another resistor in parallel with the original resistor hence lowering the resistance.

Those skilled in the art may design the connection between the semiconductor switch Q and peripheral circuits based at least in part on the type of the selected semiconductor switch Q.

In the single embodiment or in some embodiments the operational amplifier may also apply an inverse input configuration according to practical situations. The operational amplifier may also be replaced with other amplifying elements such as a transistor in some embodiments. In these embodiments the amplifying unit includes an amplifier and one or more peripheral circuits and any one resistor in the peripheral circuits that may influence the magnification functions of the amplifier may be selected as a varistor. The varistor may be controlled by the control unit and may regulate or modulate the resistance as desired.

In the aforementioned embodiments there may exist different conditions for different detection locations. There may also exist different conditions even for the same location at different times. For example the temperature or humidity may fluctuate to affect the detection because different temperature or humidity may exert different influence on for example the capacitance change of the sampling needle. In order for the liquid level detecting device to adapt to different temperatures or humidity in the single embodiment or in some embodiments the liquid level detecting device may further include a temperature sensor and or a humidity sensor.

The output terminal of the temperature sensor or the humidity sensor may be operatively coupled to the control unit that outputs control signals to the amplifying unit for adjusting the gain of the amplifying unit according to at least the temperature information detected by the temperature sensor. In these embodiments the environmental information based at least in part on which the control signals are generated includes temperature information and the control signals include at least one parameter corresponding to the temperature detected by the temperature sensor. The control unit may also generate control signals according to both the location information and the temperature information in some embodiments. In these embodiments the environmental information includes location information and temperature information and the amplifying unit adjusts the gain according to at least the location of the sampling needle and the current environmental temperature.

In these embodiment or in some other embodiments the liquid level detecting device may also include a humidity sensor. In these embodiments the output terminal of the humidity sensor is coupled to the control unit that outputs control signals to the amplifying unit for adjusting the gain of the amplifying unit according to the humidity information detected by the humidity sensor. In these embodiments the environmental information based at least in part on which the control signals are generated includes humidity information and the control signals include a parameter corresponding to the humidity detected by the humidity sensor. The control unit may also generate control signals according to both the location information and the humidity information in some embodiments. In these embodiments the environmental information includes location information and humidity information and the amplifying unit adjusts the gain according to the location of the sampling needle and the environmental humidity.

Those skilled in the art clearly understand that the environmental information include location information temperature information and humidity information and the amplifying unit adjusts the gain according to the location of the sampling needle and the environmental temperature and humidity.

In some other embodiments the liquid level detecting device adapts to the environment in which the sampling needle is situated by means of a process for adjusting the gain and changing for example the voltage threshold. In these embodiments the control unit may select a more appropriate preset voltage threshold according to at least the environmental information. The liquid level detecting device amplifies the voltage with the adjusted gain and compares the amplified voltage with the voltage threshold selected according to the environmental information to determine whether the sampling needle detects the liquid level. In these embodiments the control unit may not only control the gain but also control determination conditions such as the voltage threshold. Comprehensive control over both gains and determination conditions may render the liquid level detecting device more flexible to consider both sensitivity and reliability for realizing the self adaptation feature of the liquid level detecting device in various embodiments.

During the process of detecting the liquid level different locations and different environments may have different requirements for detection. To consider both sensitivity and reliability of a detecting system mutually independent circuit parameters may be designed for each specific location and stored at a central location such as any computer readable memory so that the mutually independent circuit parameters may be selected by the device with for example commands through user interfaces or application programming interfaces which enables the overall system to satisfy various requirements and extends the number of locations to which it adapts.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions or a particular arrangement of certain hardware devices or modules. Nonetheless the ordering of many of the described process actions and the arrangement of many of the described hardware modules or device may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

