---

title: Systems and methods for data synchronization in a customer center
abstract: A synchronization manager comprises an instruction execution system. The instruction execution system is configured to identify an initial master application of a plurality of workforce applications that are in communication with a contact center, identify remaining ones of the workforce applications as slave applications, determine a substitute master application hierarchy by prioritizing the slave applications, monitor the initial master application to detect changes to user data, and if changes to the user data in the initial master application are detected, update corresponding user data in the slave applications with the changes to the user data in the initial master application. The instruction execution system is further configured to, if the initial master application is unavailable, identify one of the slave applications as a substitute master application based on the prioritization of the slave applications in the substitute master application hierarchy, and monitor the substitute master application to detect changes to the user data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08331548&OS=08331548&RS=08331548
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08331548
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100927
---
This application is a continuation of copending U.S. utility application entitled Systems and Methods for Data Synchronization in a Customer Center having Ser. No. 11 529 942 and filed on Sep. 29 2006 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application entitled Systems and Methods for an Integrated Workforce Optimization Database having Ser. No. 60 799 228 and filed on May 10 2006 all of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure is generally related to management of information related to employees of customer centers.

Customer centers typically have various types of agents who handle various tasks. Many agents are trained and have many responsibilities in various departments of the customer centers. For example a particular agent can handle billings as well as shipping. Each department typically maintains information related to its agents. However despite agents being able to work in multiple departments intra departmental access to agent information typically is not provided. Such information includes but is not limited to the agents home addresses telephone numbers schedules and training for example. Additionally when agent information is changed in one department corresponding information is not changed in other departments.

Systems and methods to synchronize data in a contact center having a plurality of users are disclosed herein. In this regard a representative method comprises identifying an initial master application of a plurality of workforce applications that are in communication with the contact center identifying remaining ones of the workforce applications as slave applications determining a substitute master application hierarchy by prioritizing the slave applications monitoring the initial master application to detect changes to user data and if changes to the user data in the initial master application are detected updating corresponding user data in the slave applications with the changes to the user data in the initial master application. The method further comprises if the initial master application is unavailable identifying one of the slave applications as a substitute master application based on the prioritization of the slave applications in the substitute master application hierarchy and monitoring the substitute master application to detect changes to the user data and if changes to the user data in the substitute master application are detected updating corresponding user data in the slave applications with the changes to the user data in the substitute master application. In addition agent synchronization login functionality among multiple applications is provided.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for performing agent data synchronization in a customer center. Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After exemplary systems have been described examples of display diagrams and operations are provided to explain the manner in which processes for performing agent data synchronization in a customer center can be achieved.

A customer center can include by way example but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers enterprise reporting systems payroll systems and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Referring now in more detail to the figures illustrates an embodiment of a customer center environment . The customer center is staffed by agents who handle incoming and or outgoing contacts. Although the traditional and most common form of contact is by phone other types of contacts are becoming more common e.g. text chat web collaboration email and fax . An agent workspace includes an agent phone and a workstation computer . A network connects one or more of the workstations .

A contact router distributes incoming contacts to available agents. For example when the contacts are made by traditional phone lines the contact router operates by connecting outside trunk lines to agent trunk lines . In this environment the contact router may be implemented by an automatic call distributor ACD which queues calls until a suitable agent is available. Other types of contacts such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls and computer based contacts e.g. chat and email are routed over one or more data networks. These contacts are distributed over network to one of the agent workstations .

For a customer center agent to utilize other applications seamlessly customer center agent data are replicated from a file onto an application layer of each application and utilized in those other applications. The file includes information of the agents and is generally handled by an agent synchronization manager of its respective application . However it should be noted that the file can be synchronized and stored in other systems not shown of the customer center. Alternatively or additionally the agent data can be synchronized among the software applications using by way of example but not limited to web service Representation State Transfer REST database and socket.

Each application receives and synchronizes at least a portion of the agent information from the file. For example the quality monitoring application can receive certain information of the agents from the file and update its data about the agents on the application layer according to the received agent information. Alternatively or additionally the quality monitoring application can receive substantially all of the information of the agents from the file and select relevant information of the agents to update its data.

The agent information can be changed in the file by for example an administrator of the customer center. The agent information having the changed data is exported to an application such as quality monitoring compliance recording and adherence of data source. The agent data can then be pushed to the application.

The data in the file includes a unique identification that enables each application to identify the data and associate the data with an agent. Upon synchronization and updating of the agent information the file can be updated between the applications. The agent synchronization manager monitors the file having the agent information. Upon detecting a change in the agent information the agent information is imported and updated for the applications. Data for multiple customer center agents can be monitored and or updated simultaneously.

Alternatively or additionally the agent information may be updated incrementally such as with full snapshot data pushes in order to keep the agent data in sync among the various applications. A full snapshot data push which involves sending the entire agent data in the agent file to the software applications occurs when data is sent to the application even though the application has not yet detected a change.

Alternatively or additionally one of the representative applications among others can operate as a master while the remaining applications can operate as slaves. Any application can function as the master. For example WFM can be a master application while quality management QM can be a slave application.

A master application can push out one time updates to set up the system and the slave applications. Alternatively or additionally incremental updates can be sent as necessary. For example a new agent joining the center may necessitate an update. If a new agent is added to the system then that agent may be added to the master and or slave applications and then updates can be sent. Any changes to a particular agent may cause data to be pushed out to the other applications. Deleting an agent also may cause data to be pushed out. Additionally a change in the agent to supervisor relationship such as for example assigning an agent to a different supervisor may cause data to be pushed out.

Agent synchronization allows for the synchronization of users across applications where one of the applications is designated as a master. Any of the slave applications can be designated a master application to replace a previous master application due to desired changes or due to the preferred master application not being available. For example a hierarchy of master applications can be predetermined WFM may be a master application but if WFM were not present then QM may for example be the master application if QM were not present then enterprise reporting ER may become the master etc. The master application can change with other desired circumstances.

Agent synchronization further allows for user management across disparate applications. Typically each application has its own individual data sources along with the agent synchronization manager. In such an environment individual users need to log in separately which in turn causes difficulties in maintaining consistent user information. With agent synchronization user information may be managed across multiple applications at a customer center system.

The agent of the customer center can log into the application. Should the customer center agent desire to utilize another application such as enterprise reporting application then the user can be signed on to that application. Single sign on capability eliminates the need for users to endlessly sign on to other applications as the need arises. Agent synchronization and single sign on allow users to login once to any of the applications without having to sign on again to other applications. With agent data managed throughout the customer center and pushed out to the other applications the users can login to one application open another application and then have automatic authentication.

The agent information is then transmitted to a WFM database which is then transmitted via a WFM export process . The WFM export process exports agent information in for example an eXtensible Markup Language XML format on a site by site basis one file per site and stores the agent information as an agent export file . XML is a subset of standard generalized mark up language SGML constituting a particular text mark up language for interchange of structured data. The agent export file can then be sent to a balance site which the agent export file is received by a user synchronization tool service USTS .

The USTS executes a WFM XML CSV converter . The converter transforms the agent export file from an XML format to a balance import file . The WFM XML CSV converter can also convert agent data in a commas separated value CSV format. The import file is transmitted to a QM user import process which loads the import file containing the agent information into a QM site database . It should be noted that although the USTS is shown to include the QM user import process the QM user import process can be implemented as a separate service from USTS .

The converter can further transmit the export file to an e learning import file which then transmits the import file to an e learning schedule task manager STM . The STM is a scheduling utility used by e learning to schedule e learning related tasks. The e learning STM transmits the agent information into an e learning database using for example a scheduled STM task.

Alternatively or additionally mapping file can be used to describe the fields that appear in the CSV file the order of the fields in each line of the CSV file and maps those fields to the QM database fields. The mapping file is used by the QM user import utility to determine which fields in QM site database to update during the import.

Alternatively or additionally the system can update all agent data in quality monitoring or e learning from WFM. For example WFM exports all the agent data into an XML file. The USTS detects the new file and starts its import process. The user synchronization tool service converts the XML file into the CSV format for e learning or quality monitoring. Agent information of a new agent is included in the databases . The agent information should not be duplicated in each of the databases since each agent file has a unique identification.

Alternatively or additionally WFM can export agent information that has changed since the last update. For example WFM exports the agent information that has been changed deleted terminated or newly added into an XML file. The USTS converts the XML file into the CSV format for the e learning and quality monitoring. The databases are updated with the agent information that has been changed deleted terminated or newly added.

Each of the applications requires a different way of representing the users based on the functionality provided. For example in quality management customer center agents may not necessarily report to a quality reviewer even though the quality reviewer may be reviewing the calls. In WFM the supervisor and customer center agent may involve more of a reporting relationship. Each of the applications can also have different organizational requirements and the disparate requirements can be accommodated through synchronization such that the needs of the applications are satisfied while administering any user from a central location.

Additionally users may be common among multiple groups and multiple applications. While illustrates personnel hierarchy and illustrates organizational hierarchy it should be noted that synchronization may also occur within groups and applications. Thus agent synchronization allows for the synchronization of personnel organizations groups and or application users. Once the hierarchy is entered in one application it is available for other applications.

The graphical user interface further depicts a properties section that includes general information about the entity in the user section . For example by clicking on administrator the general information indicates that the administrator is login enabled and provides the login name personnel ID e mail address and status i.e. whether inactive or active among others. The properties section further includes agent IDs user fields and comments. An assigned user section is also shown which allows the user to assign a particular agent to work group administrator department or any branch within the customer center.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the system and or method is implemented in software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable microprocessor P situated in a computing device. However the systems and methods can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Such instruction execution systems include any computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions from the instruction execution system. In the context of this disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to a system or propagation medium that is based on electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor technology.

Specific examples of a computer readable medium using electronic technology may include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory . A specific example using magnetic technology includes but is not limited to a portable computer diskette. Specific examples using optical technology include but are not limited to optical fiber and compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

The scope of certain embodiments of the present disclosure includes embodying the functionality of the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure in logic embodied in hardware and or software configured mediums.

It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

