---

title: Application launching via indexed data
abstract: Application launching on a computer via indexed data. Based on a search term entered by a user, the computer searches an index containing metadata representative of one or more applications installed on the computer. A user interface on the computer's display has a window for displaying the results of searching the index. In addition, the user interface receives user input to select an application from the search results to be initiated. The computer is responsive to the user input via the user interface for initiating the selected application installed on the computer. A computer-readable medium including a persistent component, an index component, a query component, and an execution component embodies further aspects of the invention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626734&OS=08626734&RS=08626734
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08626734
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100429
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 159 821 filed Jun. 23 2005 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Currently available computer operating systems use a Start menu for launching applications installed on a computer. The Start menu typically lists recently accessed programs. In addition an All Programs option of the Start menu permits a user to navigate through multiple submenus to locate a program he or she wishes to open. The user then clicks on an appropriate user interface element to open the selected program. If a particular program does not appear on the Start menu or one of its submenus the user may need to search for the program on the computer s hard drive. A typical Start menu also includes a Favorites section which enables the user to open favorite Web sites and the like.

Unfortunately the Start menu can become quite unwieldy over time as more and more applications are installed on the computer. The Start menu can easily consume an entire screen length and often has multiple columns and submenus. As such many useful applications can become buried in several layers of menus which make them very difficult to locate and launch.

Embodiments of the invention overcome one or more deficiencies in known systems by permitting a user to easily access and run software applications on his or her computer. Aspects of the invention provide an index of applications using desktop search functionality which in part allows the user to quickly and easily search for a desired application to be launched in much the same manner as searching for a text document or e mail. When items are retrieved by the desktop search engine they are enabled for launching e.g. right click enabled directly from the results window user interface. In addition aspects of the invention improve search efficiency the relevance of search results and the user experience with a search tool that is lighter customizable and more aesthetically pleasing to the user. In this regard an embodiment of the invention automatically scopes search results partitions the results by file type and presents a consistent interface across different contexts.

Computer readable media having computer executable instructions for performing a method of launching applications embody further aspects of the invention.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates components of an exemplary computer system implementing an embodiment of the invention. Aspects of the invention allow a user of computer system to easily access and run software applications or programs on a computer. An index contains metadata associated with the applications installed on the computer which simplifies the task of locating and initiating a particular application. In one embodiment desktop search functionality such as provided by Microsoft Corporation s MSN Toolbar Suite helps users quickly find virtually any type of document media file or e mail message on their computers. This search functionality identifies keywords within files as well as within their titles. In other words the index permits the user to search for a particular application in much the same manner as searching for a text document or e mail. One example of metadata is the file type of the indexed item.

In general desktop searching may refer to the ability to search multiple data sources e.g. the Internet corporate intranets and databases hard drives and removable storage on the user s computer from a search term entered into a text box or other form of search field on the computer desktop. Many user activities performed during the course of normal computer usage may be accomplished by searching the desktop contents. Advantageously desktop searching according to aspects of the invention returns desired results quickly enough to produce a significant productivity increase and permits the user to launch a separate application directly from the search results.

Referring further to a persistent user interface UI element remains on the desktop for accessing information in index and providing results based on partial matches of one or more characters input by the user. In this manner the UI element is available in the computer s operating system shell as well as hosted in various applications. This significantly reduces repeated mouse clicks and keystrokes. In addition to metadata associated with applications the index contains metadata for browser favorites recent documents and operating system shell namespace e.g. for printers connections etc. .

Aspects of the present invention also provide a second UI element see for displaying results of the search. In order to provide useful results as soon as possible one embodiment of the invention modifies the query term input in UI element by for example appending a wildcard operator and filtering the most appropriate data types. Filtering in this manner to narrow the scope of the search vastly improves the speed of the search. Given the limited screen space available for display one embodiment also prunes the results by limiting them to certain document types depending on the search and grouping relevant items by task. Advantageously the user may customize these groupings. By determining a user s intended search scope without explicit user designation or selection aspects of the invention improve search efficiency and the relevance of search results by providing a search tool that is lighter customizable and more aesthetically pleasing to the user. In one embodiment the invention determines search scope by predicting the user s intended search scope based on the context of his or her current application.

The second UI element although referred to as a program launch UI is optimized to perform numerous repetitive tasks such as launching programs looking up contacts e mails etc. In addition items retrieved by the desktop search engine may be right click enabled and provide the user with generally the same options as the Start menu.

The UI element may be embodied by a Word Wheel that is a pop up window providing a summary of results from desktop search queries as the user types. The Word Wheel in one embodiment permits the user to open items launch applications right click for extra context menu information without having to launch a separate application or window. As the user types the summarized view in UI element suggests possible results based on the user s input and provides access to these results without launching a full detailed results window.

Referring now to an exemplary screen shot illustrates a user interface according to an embodiment of the invention. In UI element provides the user with instant search access to information on his or her computer as well as the Internet. In one embodiment the query box of UI element uses word wheeling to dynamically display results in UI element as the user begins typing a search term. For example as a user types w o r d into the search box he or she quickly sees a list of any desktop applications that contain the letter w and a list of Internet search results for the search term. The search results automatically and quickly update as the user types additional characters first w then wo then wor and finally the complete search term word . At any time the user may stop typing and select the desired application for launching from UI element . In one embodiment the default search scope is set to the computer s hard drive and includes local files and e mail. As described above the desktop search tool provides persistence because it resides in the taskbar.

As shown in the embodiment of the UI element partitions the search results by file type e.g. Program Application Browser Favorites Contacts etc. . These items are displayed as subgroups in a Word Wheel window in the illustrated embodiment. According to aspects of the present invention the Word Wheel UI element enables the user to easily find and launch a selected application installed on the computer. For example to launch an application the user types its title or a portion of the title in the desktop search field UI and then clicks on the appropriate result shown in UI element to launch the application. In the alternative the user can navigate the search results with the keyboard s arrow keys and enter on the desired result item as a means for selecting the desired application to be launched.

In one embodiment UI element groups the results by type e.g. applications documents contacts e mail and lists up to a predetermined number of result items for each type. In an alternative embodiment the invention allows the user to specify which result types will be displayed in the Word Wheel UI element . For example a user can choose to only display applications. In this manner UI element presents a diverse set of search results in a single unified UI. Advantageously the individual search results UIs are consistent with each other even though the searches may have been performed in different scopes or contexts. The similarity and familiarity of the results interfaces improves search efficiency.

One implementation of the invention is as follows. Applications IE Favorites My Recent Documents are stored as folders and files under C Documents and Settings All Users and C Documents and Settings . Using the indexer in the desktop search tool indexes these data elements so they can be queried in meaningful ways to the user.

In the example of DesktopSearch Query is repeated for every letter typed and Wordwheel ExecuteItem is responsive to input from the user such as the user clicking on a result item to select an application for launching.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS including the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically includes data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN may be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Embodiments of the invention described herein include these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media include instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. One embodiment of the invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer one embodiment of the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located on both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMl interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DOOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

In operation according to one embodiment of the invention computer locates and initiates an application installed on the computer by displaying a first user UI element to a user. The UI element includes a search field for receiving a user entered search term. In this instance the search term may be one or more characters representing an application to be initiated on the computer . Computer executes computer executable instructions to search based on the search term index . As described above index contains metadata representative of one or more applications installed on the computer. Computer then displays a second UI element which includes a window for displaying the search results and for receiving user input to select the application to be initiated. According to aspects of the invention computer is responsive to user input via the second UI element for initiating the selected application. Advantageously the computer continually updates the search results as the user enters additional characters of the search term.

The order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is it is contemplated by the inventors that elements of the methods may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular element before contemporaneously with or after another element is within the scope of the invention.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

In view of the above it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.

As various changes could be made in the above constructions and methods without departing from the scope of embodiments of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

