---

title: Energy generation apparatus and method
abstract: An energy generation apparatus is disclosed. The apparatus includes a base, a sidewall enclosing a perimeter of the base to define a first volume, and a tube having a first end and a second end. The base includes a solar energy collection surface. The first end of the tube is disposed in the first volume adjacent the base, and the second end of the tube is disposed in a second volume outside of the first volume. The apparatus also includes a fluid flow initiator to initiate a flow of a fluid from the first volume to the second volume through the tube when the fluid in the first volume has been heated by the solar energy collection surface to generate a super-adiabatic lapse rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08928169&OS=08928169&RS=08928169
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08928169
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100909
---
Solar power has the potential to provide a significant portion of humanity s energy requirements. It is estimated that the Earth s land and oceans receive solar radiation at a rate of 96 petawatts PW or over 5 000 times the current rate of energy consumption worldwide. Harnessing solar power is problematic however because the absolute power level per unit area is relatively low. In the southwest region of the United States for example where solar energy is relatively plentiful insolation averages approximately 5.5 kWh mper day. A number of approaches have been developed to transform solar energy into other forms of energy. For example concentrating solar power CSP systems utilize lenses or mirrors and tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. The concentrated light is then used as a heat source for a conventional power plant. Photovoltaic systems including solar panel arrays coupled to batteries and an inverter are also known.

Although installation of solar power systems for specialized applications is growing rapidly solar power accounts for less than one half percent of total energy consumption worldwide. A large percentage of this growth to date has been stimulated by government subsidies. In order for solar power to emerge as a primary energy source that is competitive with other forms of energy a reduction in the installation cost per watt is necessary. Because harvesting solar power does not consume fuel resources the cost of solar power is relatively low after installation is complete. The current cost per installed watt is approximately 5 7 USD for moderate to large scale installations.

Various aspects of an apparatus for converting solar energy into other forms of energy are disclosed. In one embodiment the apparatus includes a base a sidewall enclosing a perimeter of the base to define a first volume and a tube having a first end and a second end. The base includes a solar energy collection surface. The first end of the tube is disposed in the first volume adjacent the base and the second end of the tube is disposed in a second volume outside of the first volume. The apparatus also includes a fluid flow initiator to initiate a flow of a fluid from the first volume to the second volume through the tube when the fluid in the first volume has been heated by the solar energy collection surface to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate.

In another embodiment the apparatus includes a solar energy collection surface to convectively heat a first volume of a fluid to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate and a fluid flow initiator to initiate a flow of the fluid from the first volume to a second volume through a tube when the super adiabatic lapse rate is generated. The second volume is outside of the first volume. A first end of the tube is disposed in the first volume and a second end of the tube is disposed in the second volume.

Various embodiments of an apparatus for converting solar energy e.g. sunlight into other forms of energy e.g. mechanical energy electrical energy are described herein. The apparatus may implement a controlled thermal convection process that includes collecting solar energy to create an unstable atmospheric condition and subsequently destabilizing the atmospheric condition to generate a fluid flow. In one embodiment the apparatus includes a turbine to convert the flow of the fluid into mechanical energy. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a generator coupled to the turbine to convert the mechanical energy into electrical energy.

The Earth s atmosphere is not isothermal and atmospheric temperature generally decreases with height. The rate of decreasing air temperature with altitude in a stationary atmosphere is generally referred to as the environmental lapse rate ELR . Movement of air in the atmosphere is determined in part by the temperature of the air relative to the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. For example air that is warmer and less dense than the surrounding atmosphere rises and air that is cooler and denser than the surrounding atmosphere falls. A parcel of rising air will expand due to reduced pressure and cool adiabatically without an exchange of heat to or from the parcel. For a parcel of dry air the rate of temperature decrease with increasing altitude referred to as the dry adiabatic lapse rate DALR is approximately 9.8 C. per kilometer. For a parcel of moist or saturated air the rate of temperature decrease with increasing altitude or the moist adiabatic lapse rate MALR is somewhat less e.g. 5 C. per kilometer due to latent heat release resulting from water condensation. The stability of an air parcel in the atmosphere is dependent upon the value of the ELR relative to the DALR and the MALR. If the ELR is less than the MALR for example the air parcel will be absolutely stable because it will cool more rapidly than surrounding air when rising eventually resulting in a loss of buoyancy. If the ELR is between the MALR and the DALR the air parcel will be conditionally unstable. If the ELR exceeds the DALR a condition referred to as a super adiabatic lapse rate the air parcel will be absolutely unstable and gain buoyancy as it rises by virtue of its less rapid cooling rate relative to the surrounding atmosphere.

Super adiabatic lapse rates are a source of convective winds and occur naturally due to intense solar heating of air near the Earth s surface. In areas of high insolation for example heated air may accumulate in a layer near the ground and remain in vertical equilibrium until disturbed by a triggering action such as an upward deflection caused by surface winds. The buoyant air then rises rapidly drawing the hot air from the surface layer. Whirlwinds or dust devils are one example of airflow resulting from a super adiabatic lapse rate.

The base may comprise a solar energy collection surface to receive solar radiation and optionally a layer of insulation disposed between an underside of the surface and an underlying surface e.g. supporting surface . The solar energy collection surface may comprise any material s suitable for absorbing incident solar radiation to cause heating of the material s and consequently convective heating of a fluid e.g. air contained in the first volume . In certain embodiments the solar energy collection surface may comprise a solar selective surface designed to maximize absorption of solar radiation and minimize radiative heat loss. In one such embodiment for example the solar energy collection surface may be fabricated using Solchrome solar selective coating sheets available from Solchrome Private Limited Himachal Pradesh India having an absorptivity of approximately 0.96 and an emissivity of approximately 0.12. In certain embodiments base may comprise a layer of insulation to reduce conductive heat loss from the solar energy collection surface . In one embodiment for example the solar energy collection surface may comprise a layer of insulation integrally formed thereon such as for example Solchrome flat plate solar collectors comprising a selective surface disposed on a layer of rock wool insulation also available from Solchrome Private Limited. The base may be formed modularly in certain embodiments using tiles or larger subsections. In other embodiments the base may be formed as a single continuous piece. In certain embodiments the base may be formed on a surface comprising a suitably rigid material such as for example concrete to protect the base from underlying materials e.g. soil moisture and provide suitable support for the base . In certain embodiments and as shown in the base may comprise a generally circular shape having a diameter D although it will be appreciated that the base may comprise other shapes such as for example other curved shapes e.g. ellipse oval or polygonal shapes. Additionally although the base in the embodiment of is generally planar in other embodiments the base may comprise a non planar e.g. concave convex shape.

In certain embodiments instead of being located on top of the Earth s surface at least a portion of the base and or the sidewall may be disposed in a depression formed in the Earth s surface. In one such embodiment for example the base and the sidewall may be disposed in a bowl shaped opening formed in the Earth s surface. The depression may be naturally occurring and or formed at least in part by excavation. Although the sidewall may be formed on the sidewall of the depression it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the sidewall of the depression may comprise a natural material e.g. rock clay soil suitable for forming the sidewall without the need for additional sidewall material s .

The sidewall encloses the perimeter of the base and extends above the solar energy collection surface by a height H to define the first volume . In certain embodiments an interior surface of the sidewall may extend perpendicularly upward from the base such that the first volume comprises a cylindrical shape when the base comprises a planar circular shape. In other embodiments the interior surface of the sidewall may extend upward from the base in a non perpendicular manner e.g. sloped . The sidewall may generally be non porous to prevent the passage of fluid between the first volume and the second volume via the sidewall . The sidewall therefore laterally isolates and contains fluid in the first volume to an extent and reduces or prevents disruption or destabilization of the fluid by natural triggering actions e.g. upward deflection caused by surface winds . The sidewall may be modularly or integrally constructed using any suitable building material s such as for example concrete and or steel. Although the height H of the sidewall in is uniform relative to the solar energy collection surface in other embodiments H may be non uniform.

Although the embodiment of comprises a sidewall other embodiments of the apparatus may not include sidewall . For such embodiments the first volume comprises the volume of fluid positioned above the solar energy collection surface that is convectively heated by the solar energy collection surface .

The first end of the tube is disposed in the first volume and attached to the base in a manner to permit a substantially unrestricted flow of fluid into the first end from the first volume . In one embodiment for example one or more standoff members may be connected between the first end of the tube and the base to support the tube and provide suitable spacing to ensure unrestricted fluid flow. To reduce the turbulence in fluid entering the first end of the tube the first end may comprise a flared opening such as for example a bellmouth opening. In certain embodiments and as shown in the tube may generally be straight and comprise a circular cross section although it will be appreciated that other tube geometries e.g. curved with a circular or non circular cross section may alternatively be used. The cross sectional area of the tube may be selected to suitably accommodate a maximum or required fluid flow rate from the first volume . A maximum or required flow rate may be for example a flow rate that is balanced with a rate of heating and expansion of fluid in the first volume such that a sustained fluid flow from the first volume to the second volume can be maintained. The height of the tube may be selected to control to an extent a temperature differential between the first and second ends of the tube and therefore a rate of fluid flow through the tube . Depending on the height of the tube suitable materials for fabricating the tube may include one or more of concrete steel and fiberglass. It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments the height of the tube may require the use of guy wires or other supplemental support devices to provide adequate structural stability.

Embodiments of the apparatus may comprise at least one damper e.g. butterfly damper louver damper to fluidically isolate the first end of the tube from the second end of the tube prior to the initiation of a fluid flow through the tube and or to control the fluid flow through the tube thereafter. In certain embodiments for example a damper may be used balance a fluid flow rate with a rate of heating and expansion of fluid in the first volume so that a sustained fluid flow from the first volume to the second volume can be maintained. In certain embodiments and as shown in at least one damper may be disposed in the tube . At least one damper may be coupled to a powered actuator e.g. electric actuator pneumatic actuator for modulating the damper . Each actuator may in turn be coupled to a flow controller e.g. electronic flow controller pneumatic flow controller for automatically controlling the actuator based on for example a measured fluid flow through the tube . A single flow controller may be used to control one or more than one actuator . In certain embodiments a flow controller may be implemented by a processor such as the processor shown in and discussed below. Additionally or alternatively a damper may be controlled manually with or without a powered actuator .

The fluid flow initiator operates to initiate a fluid flow from the first volume to the second volume through the tube . The fluid flow may be initiated for example by deflecting a portion of the fluid contained in the first volume through the tube via the first end when determined that the fluid in the first volume has been heated by the solar energy collection surface to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate. The fluid flow initiator may generally comprise any device suitable for causing the fluid in the first volume to enter the first end of the tube from the first volume and for causing fluid within the tube to discharge into the second volume from the second end of the tube . As shown in the embodiment of for example the fluid flow initiator may comprise a motorized fan disposed in the tube adjacent the first end . Fluid from the first volume may therefore be pulled into the first end of the tube and pushed toward the second end of the tube . Although the fluid flow initiator in is disposed adjacent the first end of the tube it will be appreciated that the fluid flow initiator may instead be positioned at other locations within the tube e.g. midsection second end . In other embodiments the fluid flow initiator may be positioned either entirely or partially outside of the tube adjacent to its first end or second end . In certain embodiments the tube itself may operate as a fluid flow initiator by virtue of a natural draft generated by the tube . In such embodiments the draft may be controlled by suitably controlling a damper .

In certain embodiments the apparatus may comprise at least one turbine to convert a fluid flow through the tube into mechanical energy. The embodiment of comprises a single turbine . The turbine may comprise for example a wind turbine having one or more blades radially attached to a rotatable shaft with each blade comprising an airfoil shaped cross section. The turbine may be positioned such that the blades are suitably exposed to fluid flowing from the first volume . In certain embodiments and as shown in for example the turbine may be disposed inside the tube adjacent its first end with the shaft substantially parallel to the direction of fluid flow. Fluid flow over the blades creates aerodynamic lift which in turn causes the blades to apply mechanical torque to the shaft. It will be appreciated that the turbine may instead be positioned at other locations within the tube e.g. midsection second end or positioned either entirely or partially outside of the tube adjacent to its first end or second end . In certain embodiments the pitch of the turbine blades may be controllable during turbine operation e.g. using a hydraulic actuator controlled by a processor such as the processor discussed below to regulate turbine speed to an extent.

In certain embodiments apparatus may comprise a device coupled to the shaft of the turbine for utilizing mechanical energy output through the shaft. In certain embodiments the device may be coupled to the shaft via a gearbox for providing suitable speed and torque conversion. In one embodiment the shaft may be coupled to a device that utilizes the supplied mechanical energy directly such as for example a pump or a compressor. Additionally or alternatively the shaft may be coupled to a generator as shown in to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy. In certain embodiments the generator may be a singly fed electric machine having one active winding set such as for example a squirrel cage induction generator or a wound rotor induction generator. In embodiments using a wound rotor induction generator the generator may comprise a controller circuit which may comprise a processor such as the processor discussed below for controlling the magnitude of the rotor current. In certain embodiments the generator may be a doubly fed electric machine having two active winding sets such as for example a doubly fed induction generator. In one such embodiment the generator may comprise a four quadrant power converter for controlling the magnitude and phase angle of the rotor current.

Although the fluid flow initiator is shown as a component separate from the turbine and the generator in in certain embodiments the fluid flow initiator may comprise the turbine and generator . For example in embodiments in which the fluid flow initiator comprises a motorized fan the motor may be activated to rotate the fan when determined that the fluid in the first volume has been heated to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate in order to initiate a fluid flow through the tube . When a fluid flow from the first volume to the second volume resulting from the super adiabatic lapse rate has been established the motor may be deactivated. The fluid flow may then cause rotation of the fan thereby causing the motor to generate electrical power. Accordingly in such embodiments the fan may operate as the turbine and the motor may operate as the generator .

In certain embodiments the apparatus may comprise at least one processor for executing instructions stored on at least one computer readable medium to monitor and or control an operating parameter of the apparatus . Embodiments of a processor and a computer readable medium are described below in connection with . Although the embodiment of comprises a single processor in communication with a single computer readable medium it will be appreciated that the apparatus may generally comprise any number of processors with each processor in communication with any number of other processors and any number of shared and or different computer readable mediums . In one embodiment for example the apparatus may comprise a first processor in communication with first and second computer readable mediums to monitor and or control a first set of operating parameters and a second processor in communication with second and third computer readable mediums to monitor and or control a second set of operating parameters.

In certain embodiments and as shown in the apparatus may comprise one or more sensors in communication with the processor . The processor may be programmed to monitor and or control a number of operating parameters of the apparatus based on electrical outputs from the one or more sensors . Depending upon the particular device used to implement the processor e.g. a computing device mechanical controller pneumatic controller hydraulic controller it will be appreciated an output from a sensor may be a non electrical output. In one embodiment the sensors may comprise a temperature sensor e.g. a thermistor and height sensor e.g. an altimeter a pressure sensor for measuring temperature and a corresponding height of the measured temperature for two or more heights and outputting electrical signals representative of these quantities. The temperature sensor and the height sensor may be carried aloft by a tethered or untethered balloon for example with the temperatures and corresponding heights being measured in the first volume the second volume or both the first and second volumes . During ascent of the sensors a wireless transmitter not shown may communicate the sensor outputs for a number of heights to a receiver not shown in communication with the processor . In another embodiment the one or more sensors may comprise a vertically distributed array of temperature sensors not shown with the temperature sensors respectively positioned at known heights in the first volume the second volume or both the first and second volumes . Depending upon the particular sensor heights involved mechanisms for deploying the array may include one or more of tethered balloons mast and tower structures and the tube . Each temperature sensor output may be transmitted to the processor wirelessly or by wired connection and therein associated with a corresponding height value retrieved by the processor from a computer readable medium . As discussed below the processor may monitor temperature as a function of height and control activation of the fluid flow initiator when the monitored values indicate that the fluid in the first volume has been heated to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate.

In certain embodiments the one or more sensors may comprise sensors for determining when a fluid flow through the tube exists and or determining a volumetric flow rate through the tube . In one embodiment for example the sensors may comprise a flow switch for outputting a discrete signal to the processor for enabling the processor to determine when a fluid flow through the tube exceeds or is less than a predetermined flow threshold. Additionally or alternatively the sensors may comprise a turbine flow meter for outputting an analog signal or discrete signal pulses to the processor for enabling the processor to determine a volumetric flow rate through the tube . In yet another embodiment the sensors may comprise a pressure based flow sensor not shown such as a differential pressure sensor coupled to a pitot tube for outputting a signal indicative of a fluid speed to the processor from which the processor may determine a volumetric flow rate.

In certain embodiments the one or more sensors may comprise position sensors e.g. limit switch potentiometer for providing positional feedback for the at least one damper . In certain embodiments the one or more sensors may comprise sensors for providing feedback relating to electrical and or other operating parameters of the generator such as for example generator output voltage e.g. line voltage phase voltage generator output current e.g. phase current angles of the generator output voltage and current generator output frequency generator power per phase generator total output power generator stator temperature generator bearing temperature and generator shaft speed.

In certain embodiments the processor may be programmed to determine temperature change as a function of height in order to determine the ELR. The temperature and height information necessary to determine the ELR may be derived from temperature sensor outputs height sensor outputs and or other information accessible to the processor e.g. temperature sensor height data stored in a computer readable medium accessible to the processor as discussed above. In one embodiment the processor may be programmed to compare the determined ELR to the DALR which is constant at approximately 9.8 C. per kilometer in order to determine when a super adiabatic lapse rate condition exists. For example the processor may determine that a super adiabatic lapse rate exists when the ELR is greater than the DALR or when the ELR exceeds the DALR by a predetermined threshold. In another embodiment the processor may be programmed to predict when a super adiabatic lapse rate condition is likely to exist such as when the ELR is at or near a maximum value or when a temperature of the fluid in the first volume is at or near a maximum value. Such predictions may be based on for example real time sensor data e.g. current temperature versus height profiles corresponding historical sensor data or a combination of both real time and historical sensor data.

In other embodiments the processor may be programmed to determine or predict when a super adiabatic lapse rate condition exists based on inputs provided to the processor from an information source external to the apparatus . In certain embodiments for example an operator of the apparatus may manually provide one or more inputs to the processor e.g. using any of the I O devices discussed below in connection with from which the processor may determine the existence of a super adiabatic lapse rate condition. Such inputs may comprise for example any of temperature information height information and a determination by the operator or by another person device or system that a super adiabatic lapse rate condition exists. In certain embodiments such inputs may be automatically transmitted to the processor e.g. via a data port of the processor from another device or system e.g. a weather station server a weather satellite that is in communication with the processor .

When the processor determines that a super adiabatic lapse rate exists or is likely to exist the processor may be programmed to activate the fluid flow initiator for an amount of time sufficient to destabilize the fluid in the first volume to initiate a fluid flow from the first volume to the second volume after which time the processor may deactivate the fluid flow initiator . In embodiments in which the fluid flow initiator comprises a motorized fan for example the processor may control a contactor which in turn controls activation and deactivation of the motorized fan . In one embodiment the processor may be programmed to activate the fluid flow initiator for a predetermined amount of time e.g. 3 minutes . In another embodiment the processor may be programmed to activate the fluid flow initiator until a self sustaining fluid flow is determined by the processor based on for example a flow switch output a volumetric flow rate computed by the processor or a sufficient electrical output by a generator . In certain embodiments the processor may be programmed to control other operational aspects of the apparatus based on the processor s determination of a self sustaining fluid flow. Such operational aspects may include for example modulating the at least one damper by controlling the corresponding actuator s and controlling the pitch of the turbine blades by controlling the corresponding actuator.

In certain embodiments the process may include determining when the first volume of the fluid has been heated to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate. This determination may include determining an environmental lapse rate comparing the environmental lapse rate to a dry adiabatic lapse rate and determining that the first volume of the fluid has been heated to generate a super adiabatic lapse rate when the environmental lapse rate is greater than the dry adiabatic lapse rate.

In areas of relatively high insolation e.g. 5.5 kWh mper day in southwest regions of the Unites States it is expected that the temperature of the solar energy collection surface would rise to approximately 102 C. with approximately 14 of the absorbed solar energy lost to radiation 11 to conductive ground losses and 75 transferred to the fluid in the first volume through convection. Moderately sized wind turbines operate at an efficiency of approximately 40 . At a convective heating rate of 12 kJ m hour it is estimated that an acre of land will generate approximately 68 000 mof air moving at a vertical velocity of approximately 64 km hour translating into an average power generation rate of 91 kW per acre.

It is anticipated that embodiments of the apparatus will significantly reduce the current cost per installed watt. For example Solchrome solar selective coating sheets produced in large quantities can be purchased for approximately 20 USD m. An insulation layer would add approximately 4 USD m. Ground preparation and installation would add an additional 10 USD m. Moderately sized commercial wind turbine generators cost approximately 2 000 USD kW installed or 180 000 USD for a 90 kW wind turbine generator. This results in a total cost per acre of approximately 318 000 USD or about 3.5 USD per watt of installed power. For megawatt installations it is expected that the cost could be further reduced due to economies of scale to about 2.7 USD per watt of installed power. Federal and state incentives may further reduce the cost of installation as well as establish preferential rates for generated solar power. This cost per installed watt 2.7 3.5 USD is approximately 50 less than the current cost 5 7 USD . It is anticipated that this significant reduction in cost would spur increased used of solar power systems and a significant reduction in fossil fuel dependence. Additionally the expected cost of operation is relatively low less than 0.10 USD per KWh which is commensurate with other solar power system technologies.

It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that at least some of the embodiments described herein or parts thereof may be implemented using hardware firmware and or software. The firmware and software may be implemented using any suitable computing device s . shows an example of a computing device according to one embodiment that may be used to implement a processor and a computer readable medium . For the sake of clarity the computing device is illustrated and described here in the context of a single computing device. However it is to be appreciated and understood that any number of suitably configured computing devices can be used to implement any of the described embodiments. It also will be appreciated that one such device or multiple devices may be shared in a time division multiplex mode among compensators for multiple power amplifiers as may be the case for example in a base station of a mobile communication network. For example in at least some implementations multiple communicatively linked computing devices are used. One or more of these devices may be communicatively linked in any suitable way such as via one or more networks. One or more networks can include without limitation the Internet one or more local area networks LANs one or more wide area networks WANs or any combination thereof.

In this example the computing device may comprise one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or program modules blocks to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device is shown in the context of a single processor architecture it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices may allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also may allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include data ports ADCs DACs a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include data ports ADCs DACs a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS Java OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software or program modules blocks being executed by a computer. Generally program modules blocks include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules blocks or components and techniques may be stored on some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media used to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules blocks may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional component or modules blocks performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules blocks may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules blocks may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor devices chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules blocks routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

Although embodiments of the apparatus described above may implement a processor using a computing device such as the computing device for example it will be appreciated that in other embodiments other devices may alternatively or additionally be used to implement a processor . Such devices may comprise for example any of an electronic analog controller a mechanical controller a pneumatic controller and a hydraulic controller. It will additionally be appreciated that in certain embodiments some or all of the monitoring and control functions of the apparatus may be performed manually by for example an operator of the apparatus . For example an operator of the apparatus may manually activate and deactivate the fluid flow initiator and or manually modulate the at least one damper .

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate example implementations and that the functional components and or modules blocks may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components and or modules blocks may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components and modules blocks.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

