---

title: Selectively granting a floor during set-up of a communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: An embodiment is directed to an application server configured to set-up a communication session within a wireless communications system. The application server receives, from a session originator, a request to initiate the communication session with a set of session targets, and then transmits one or more call announcement messages for announcing the communication session to the set of session targets. The application server determines information associated with a probability that the set of session targets will fail to accept the announced communication session, and/or delay information associated with when call responses will arrive from the set of session targets in response to the one or more call announcement messages. The application server selectively grants a floor of the communication session to the session originator based on the determined information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688843&OS=08688843&RS=08688843
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08688843
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to selectively granting a floor during set up of a communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA OFDM OFDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

An embodiment is directed to an application server configured to set up a communication session within a wireless communications system. The application server receives from a session originator a request to initiate the communication session with a set of session targets and then transmits one or more call announcement messages for announcing the communication session to the set of session targets. The application server determines information associated with a probability that the set of session targets will fail to accept the announced communication session and or delay information associated with when call responses will arrive from the set of session targets in response to the one or more call announcement messages. The application server selectively grants a floor of the communication session to the session originator based on the determined information.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and one or more Presence Servers C. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session. The presence server s C offer a presence service to accept store and distribute presence information of users UEs.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the communication session.

In an example implementation referred to as Guaranteed Talk Permit GTP the application server waits to receive at least one accept call message from one of the session targets. Upon receiving the at least one accept call message the application server is aware that at least one session target has agreed to accept or participate in the communication session with the session originator. At this point the application server sends a floor grant message to the session originator to allocate the floor. As will be appreciated the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol helps to avoid a false grant scenario whereby the floor is granted and then no session targets actually join or accept the session resulting in call failure . Examples of setting up communication sessions in accordance with the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol are described below with respect to .

Referring to a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N A. In an example if N 2 the communication session is intended to be a direct or one to one communication session i.e. between UE and one other UE that is likely to be supported by the application server via IP unicasting. Otherwise if N 2 the communication session corresponds to a group communication session that can be supported by the application server via IP unicasting IP multicasting and or a combination thereof.

The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and transmits one or more call announcement messages to target UE s . . . N for announcing the communication session A. Because is directed to an example of call set up in accordance with the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the application server does not send a floor grant message to UE at this point but rather waits to receive at least one accept call message from target UE s . . . N. In A the application server receives one or more accept call messages from target UE s . . . N. Accordingly the application server sends the floor grant message to UE A after which UE i.e. the floor holder of the communication session begins to transmit media to the application server for transmission to target UE s . . . N or at least so many of target UE s . . . N that have ACKed the announce message A.

Referring to a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N B. The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and transmits one or more call announcement messages to target UE s . . . N for announcing the communication session B. Because is directed to an example of call set up in accordance with the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the application server does not send a floor grant message to UE at this point but rather waits to receive at least one accept call message from target UE s . . . N. In B instead of receiving accept call message s from target UE s . . . N assume that the target UE s . . . N do not respond to the call announcement message s with accept call message s .

As shown in B the failure to provide an accept call message to the application server can correspond to an affirmative rejection of the communication session whereby the target UE s . . . N send reject call message s to the application server . Alternatively while not shown in the failure to provide an accept call message in B can correspond to a failure to ACK the call announcement message at all whereby the application server infers that a session target will not be joining the communication session after a threshold period of time without receiving any response to the call announcement message.

Referring to the application server infers from the response or lack thereof of B that the communication session requested for initiation by UE cannot be set up successfully. Accordingly the application server notifies UE of call failure B. As will be appreciated no floor grant message is sent to UE during the process of .

As will be appreciated from the description of set up of communication sessions in accordance with the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol reduces an occurrence of a false grant scenario e.g. no floor grant is sent in when target UE s . . . N do not accept the session but also increases the time it takes to set up the communication session e.g. the floor grant in is only sent after an accept call message is received from a target UE .

An alternative to setting up communication sessions in accordance with the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol is referred to as Optimistic Talk Permit OTP . In an OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the application server sends a floor grant message to the session originator without waiting to receive at least one accept call message from the session targets. Thus if one or more accept call messages eventually arrive at the application server from the session targets the communication session is set up more quickly at the originator than under the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol due to the preemptive floor grant to the session originator. However if no accept call messages arrive at the application server from the session targets the call fails and a false grant scenario occurs which degrades the user experience e.g. the session originator may have already begun speaking only to find out at a later point in time that his her call never actually connected to the target UE s . Examples of setting up communication sessions in accordance with the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol are described below with respect to .

Referring to a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N A. In an example if N 2 the communication session is intended to be a direct or one to one communication session i.e. between UE and one other UE that is likely to be supported by the application server via IP unicasting. Otherwise if N 2 the communication session corresponds to a group communication session that can be supported by the application server via IP unicasting IP multicasting and or a combination thereof.

The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and transmits one or more call announcement messages to target UE s . . . N for announcing the communication session A. Because is directed to an example of call set up in accordance with the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the application server sends a floor grant message to UE at this point A instead of waiting to receive at least one accept call message from target UE s . . . N. In A after UE receives the floor grant message UE i.e. the floor holder of the communication session begins to transmit media to the application server for transmission to target UE s . . . N at least the target UE s . . . N that have accepted the announced communication session .

At this point no accept call messages have been received by the application server and the application server buffers the media from UE while waiting for an accept call message A. In A the application server receives one or more accept call messages from target UE s . . . N. Accordingly the application server sends the buffered media and any other media arriving from UE to target UE s . . . N at least the target UE s . . . N that have accepted the announced communication session A.

Referring to a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N B. The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and transmits one or more call announcement messages to target UE s . . . N for announcing the communication session B. Because is directed to an example of call set up in accordance with the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the application server sends a floor grant message to UE at this point B instead of waiting to receive at least one accept call message from target UE s . . . N. In B after UE receives the floor grant message UE i.e. the floor holder of the communication session begins to transmit media to the application server for transmission to target UE s . . . N at least the target UE s . . . N that have accepted the announced communication session B.

At this point no accept call messages have been received by the application server and the application server buffers the media from UE while waiting for an accept call message B. In B instead of receiving accept call message s from target UE s . . . N assume that the target UE s . . . N do not respond to the call announcement message s with accept call message s e.g. similar to B of where the failure to transmit an accept call message can correspond to a failure to send any type of response or ACK at all or to a transmission of a reject call message .

Referring to the application server infers from the response or lack thereof of B that the communication session requested for initiation by UE cannot be set up successfully. Accordingly the application server notifies UE of call failure and drops or flushes the buffered media of B from memory B. UE receives the notification of call failure and stops transmitting media to the application server B.

As will be appreciated from the description of set up of communication sessions in accordance with the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol reduces the set up time for communication sessions as shown in but also increases occurrences of false grant scenarios as shown in .

Conventionally network operators are forced to choose either OTP type or GTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols for supporting set up of communication sessions within a wireless communications network. Embodiments of the invention are directed to a selective implementation of OTP type or GTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols during set up of a communication session. As will be described in more detail below embodiments are directed to implementing the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol for session set up of communication sessions with a relatively high expectation or probability of being set up successfully and implementing the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol for session set up of communication sessions with a relatively low expectation or probability of being set up successfully. In at least one embodiment information associated with the probability or expectation of successfully setting up communication sessions can be used to take advantage of the respective benefits of OTP type or GTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols while mitigating the respective negative aspects of OTP type or GTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols.

Referring to a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N . In an example if N 2 the communication session is intended to be a direct or one to one communication session i.e. between UE and one other UE that is likely to be supported by the application server via IP unicasting. Otherwise if N 2 the communication session corresponds to a group communication session that can be supported by the application server via IP unicasting IP multicasting and or a combination thereof.

The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and instead of allocating a floor grant to UE by default in accordance with either GTP type or OTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols the application server determines information associated with a probability that the target UE s . . . N will fail to positively acknowledge the one or more call announcement messages .

The information determined in can be any type of information that can be used by the application server to infer the likelihood that none of target UE s . . . N will be able to or willing to join or accept the announced communication session. For example the probabilistic information determined at can include i the number of target UE s i.e. N 1 to which the call announce message s are transmitted and or ii a calculated probability P that the target UE s . . . N will not accept or answer the call announcement.

After the probabilistic information is determined in the probabilistic information is used by the application server to determine whether to grant the floor to UE before one or more accept call messages are received from a first responder among target UE s . . . N . In other words the probabilistic information is used to select between an OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol and a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. As an example the determination of can include comparing the probabilistic information from with a threshold value. For example if the probabilistic information corresponds to the number of target UE s . . . N that are sent the call announcement the threshold value may correspond to a threshold number of target UEs. In another example if the probabilistic information corresponds to a calculated probability the threshold value may correspond to a threshold probability P .

Referring to in if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the probabilistic information from the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the probabilistic information from the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

Referring to after receiving the session initiation request from UE in of the application server determines a threshold number of target UEs A. In an example the threshold number determined at A can be a static pre configured number such that the determination of A corresponds to a loading of a stored value from memory by the application server . Alternatively the threshold number determined at A can be dynamically determined or calculated by the application server based on session specific parameters and or environmental or system conditions of the wireless communications system.

In an example it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the probability that at least one of target UE s . . . N will not accept the call announcement message decreases as N increases. In other words announcing a session to more target UEs will typically increase the likelihood of setting up the session to at least one of the target UEs. Thus the application server or a network operator may determine through empirical study that call announcement messages sent to a given number e.g. 3 4 etc. of target UEs have a particularly high likelihood of being accepted in which case the given number can be used as the threshold number determined in A. illustrates an example by which the application server selects a static threshold number B for the threshold number determination of A.

In another example the threshold number can be dynamically determined. For example a number of factors can affect the success rate of call set up such as time of day the type of users to be engaged in the communication session the type of access network e.g. terrestrial vs. satellite etc. These factors can be used to weight to the threshold number determined in A. For example communication sessions being set up during normal work hours can be associated with a lower threshold number than communication sessions being set up during off peak hours because UEs are more likely to respond to call announcements during normal calling times. In another example communication sessions being set up between family members or friends can be associated with a lower threshold number than communication sessions being set up with strangers because UEs are more likely to respond to call announcements from users with closer social relationships. In another example communication sessions being set up to target UEs connected via a terrestrial access network can be associated with a lower threshold number than communication sessions to target UEs via a satellite access network because UEs connected to satellite access networks may be on average less likely to ACK call announcements. This example is illustrated with respect to whereby the threshold number determination of A includes determining the type of access network e.g. satellite or terrestrial to which each of target UE s . . . N is connected C and then selecting one of a plurality of threshold numbers based on the determined access network type s C e.g. threshold number 5 if any target UE s connect via satellite threshold number 3 if no target UE s connect via satellite etc. . Thus the examples above show that the application server can optionally weight the threshold number determined in A based on information that can affect the likelihood of call acceptance by the target UE s . . . N.

Referring to the application server determines the number N 1 of target UE s . . . N to which the call announcement message is to be transmitted A. In an example for one to one or direct calls from UE the number determined in A is simply one 1 . In another example the session initiation request from can designate a group of target UE s . The number of target UE s can thereby either be i the total number of UEs in the group except for UE or ii the UEs in the group that are currently available. The application server can determine the number of UEs in the group based on UEs that have registered with the application server for the group in an example. Alternatively the application server can determine the number of UEs in the group based on UEs that have both registered with the application server for the group and have also indicated their availability to the presence server C. For example it will be appreciated that not all UEs belonging to a particular communication group are always available. In this case one or more UEs in the group may be turned off may be out of service etc. In an example the application server can query the presence server C to determine which UEs among the group are available. Thus in A the application server attempts to determine the number of target UE s . . . N that are expected to have a capability of responding to the call announcement message in an example.

After determining the threshold number in A and the number N 1 of target UE s . . . N in A the application server compares the threshold number with the number N 1 of target UE s . . . N in A. In A if the application server determines that the threshold number does not exceed the number N 1 of target UE s . . . N the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. Accordingly the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . In other words in the embodiment of the application server invokes the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol when the number of target UEs is relatively low. Otherwise in A if the application server determines that the threshold number exceeds the number N 1 of target UE s . . . N the application server determines to implement an OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. Accordingly the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N. In other words in the embodiment of the application server invokes the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol when the number of target UEs is relatively high.

Referring to upon receiving the session initiation request from UE in of the application server determines whether to support the communication session via IP unicasting IP multicasting and or a combination of IP unicasting and IP multicasting D. In an example the application server may determine to support the communication session via IP unicasting if there are a relatively low number of UEs in the group if the UEs in the group are not geographically co located e.g. a high number of UEs in the group are in different serving sectors and or one or more UEs are high priority or premium UEs. In another example the application server may determine to support the communication session via IP multicasting if there are a relatively high number of geographically co located UEs in the group and or the UEs in the group are not high priority or premium UEs. In yet another example the application server can determine to support the communication session via a combination of IP unicasting and IP multicasting whereby IP multicasting is used for geographically co located UEs and IP unicasting is used either for UEs that are not geographically co located with other UEs and or for high priority UEs.

Based on the determination of D the application server determines whether IP multicast is going to be used at least in part to support the communication session D. For example IP multicasting is typically used for announcing communication sessions to relatively large groups. The embodiment of leverages this information to infer that it is likely that when announcing a session to a relatively large group via IP multicasting at least one of the target UEs will probably accept the session. Thus in D if the application server determines that the communication session will be supported at least partially via IP multicasting the application server grants the floor to UE preemptively or in accordance with the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol as shown in .

Also in cases where there is a high likelihood of obtaining call acceptance from at least one target UE among a group of geographically co located UEs as is typical in IP multicasting scenarios the application server can optionally configure the call announcement messages that are sent to the target UE s . . . N to suppress accept call messages B. As will be appreciated this reduces reverse link traffic from the target UE s . . . N. Examples of how accept call messages from UEs can be suppressed are described in more detail within co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 212 423 entitled MANAGING ACKNOWLEDGMENT TRANSMISSIONS FROM MULTICAST GROUP MEMBERS OF A MULTICAST GROUP WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed on Sep. 17 2008 assigned to the assignee of the subject application and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

After granting the floor to UE in D and transmitting the call announce messages to target UE s in D with optional call accept message suppression the process of advances to A of or B of such that media begins to arrive at the application server from UE for transmission to target UE s . . . N. As will be appreciated in the case where the accept call are suppressed the accept call or reject call messages from would be omitted due to the suppression.

Turning back to D of if the application server determines that the communication session will not be supported via IP multicasting the process advances to A of . Accordingly in the embodiment of the process of is invoked for communication sessions supported via IP unicasting whereby the application server invokes the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol for communication sessions supported via IP multicasting.

Referring to after receiving the session initiation request from UE the application server determines a threshold probability that none of target UE s will join the communication session A. The threshold probability is established such that the OTP type floor grant protocol s benefit of improved call set up time is balanced against the GTP type floor grant protocol s benefit of reduced false grant scenarios. The threshold probability may be denoted as P whereby Pcan be set to 0.03 or 3 0.01 or 1 and so on.

The application server determines a probability P that each of target UE s . . . N will fail to accept the call announcement A. The probability calculation of A can be performed in a number of ways.

For example assume that the application server determines a current probability of call failure during set up for a typical one to one or direct call to a typical target UE which may be denoted as P In this case the application server can apply the call failure probability Pto each of target UE s . . . N. Then the application server determines the number of target UE s . . . N or N 1. Finally Pcan be approximated with the following equation 1 Equation 1

As will be appreciated the actual probability that a particular UE will fail to accept a call is not necessarily equal to P. Rather Pis the average rate at which target UEs in the system do not join announced communication sessions. In an example Pcan be easily computed from the average call accept rate by session targets observed in the past. As will be appreciated the application server may be able to obtain information permitting the application server to compute a more UE specific failure probability for one or more of the target UE s . . . N. In this case the application server can use the potentially more accurate UE specific failure probability in place of P.

For example assume that N 4 such that UE is attempting to initiate a communication session with UE UE and UE . Next assume that the application server has no special knowledge with regard to UE and as such assumes that UE s probability of failing to accept the call announcement for the communication session is P. However assume that the application server is aware that UE is in a region of the wireless communications system with relatively low response rates e.g. UE may be connected to a satellite access network portion of the RAN . In this case the application server can use a different probability for UE denoted as P where P P. Next assume that the application server tracks information related to the past performance of particular UEs with regard to their respective rate of failing to join announced communication sessions and further that the application server is aware that UE has a very high rate of call acceptance or a low rate of call failure . Accordingly the application server can use a different probability for UE denoted as P where P

Accordingly it will be appreciated that the application server can use UE specific information to weight the calculation of Pin order to obtain a better approximation of whether the call announcement for a particular communication session will fail.

After determining the probability threshold P A and the call failure probability P A the application server compares the probability threshold Pwith the call failure probability P A. Based on the comparison of A the application server determines whether the probability threshold Pis less than the call failure probability P A. As will be appreciated a condition of P

If the application server determines that the probability threshold Pis less than the call failure probability Pin A the application server determines to implement the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. Accordingly the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in A if the application server determines that the probability threshold Pis not less than the call failure probability Pin A the application server determines to implement the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. Accordingly the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

Referring to assume that one or more of target UE s . . . N provide information regarding their respective likelihood of accepting call announcements B. For example a given UE among target UE s . . . N may indicate to the application server that its user is going to sleep and will not be responding to call announcements for a period of time. Alternatively the given UE may provide calendar information that includes time blocks whereby the given UE is unlikely to answer call announcements such as business meetings airplane trips and so on. Thus the UE specific information of B may correspond to device specific information regarding call answer probability or alternatively may correspond to user specific information regarding call answer probability i.e. even where the UE is available the user may not want to answer the call .

At some later point in time UE requests initiation of the communication session B and the application server announces the communication session B. The application server determines the threshold probability P B as in A of . The application server determines the call failure probability Pbased at least in part upon the UE specific information from B B. In other words as discussed above with respect to Equation 2 the application server may weight the call failure probability Pbased on the UE specific information. Next B and B correspond to A and A respectively of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In addition to the false grant probability another important performance metric associated with setting up communication sessions is session setup delay. For example in some networks where propagation delays are relatively high the advantages associated with quickly granting the floor to the originator may outweigh the risk of a false grant.

For example in a CDMA EV DO Rel. 0 network the paging cycle is set to 5.12 seconds and the roundtrip delay to the target UE s is often greater than the paging cycle. When the target for a one to one communication session is in this access network the application server can decide to apply an OTP type floor grant mechanism. When the target is in an access network where a smaller paging cycle is supported e.g. CDMA EV DO Rev. A W CDMA or LTE networks the application server can decide to apply a GTP based floor grant mechanism. Also in general the propagation delays in Geo synchronous Earth Orbit GEO satellite systems are typically higher than Low Earth Orbit LEO satellite systems or terrestrial access networks. For this reason the application server can decide to apply an OTP type floor grant mechanism when the session target is being served by a GEO satellite system. Thus aside from probabilistic information associated with call acceptance the application server can also consider delay information associated with call acceptance of target UE s to the communication session.

As will be explained in more detail below the OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol may be invoked for communication sessions established in delay prone networks and the GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol may be invoke for communication established in fast response networks even where the probability of call acceptance by the target UE s is the same in both networks.

Referring to assume that each of UEs . . . N report information associated with their respective current serving network to the application server and . For example UEs . . . N can notify the application server with regard to the type of access network to which the respective UEs are connected such as a CDMA EV DO Rel. 0 network a GEO satellite network etc.

At some later point in time a session originator UE sends to the application server a request to initiate a communication session with target UE s . . . N . In an example if N 2 the communication session is intended to be a direct or one to one communication session i.e. between UE and one other UE that is likely to be supported by the application server via IP unicasting. Otherwise if N 2 the communication session corresponds to a group communication session that can be supported by the application server via IP unicasting IP multicasting and or a combination thereof.

The application server receives the session initiation request from UE and instead of allocating a floor grant to UE by default in accordance with either GTP type or OTP type floor grant mechanisms or protocols the application server determines delay information associated with call responses from the target UE s . . . N .

The delay information determined in can be any type of information that can be used by the application server to infer how long it is likely to take the target UE s to respond to a call announcement message. For example as noted above certain satellite networks e.g. GEO satellite networks etc. may be associated with high propagation delays which delays response times from the target UE s . Thus the delay information can correspond to an expected wireless propagation delay from an access point to the target UE s in an example. In another example certain networks e.g. CDMA EV DO Rel. 0 networks etc. can have relatively long paging cycles which delays response times from the target UE s due to longer waits between pages. Thus the delay information can correspond to an expected paging delay from an access point to the target UE s in an example. Alternatively a total session set up delay expectation to one or more of the target UE s can be computed and used for the delay information in . Alternatively the network type s to which the target UE s are connected can be used to infer associated delay information in .

After the delay information is determined in the delay information is used by the application server to determine whether to grant the floor to UE before one or more accept call messages are received from a first responder among target UE s . . . N . In other words the delay information is used to select between an OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol and a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol. As an example the determination of can include comparing the delay information from with a threshold value. For example if the delay information corresponds to an expected propagation delay associated with the access network s of the target UE s the threshold value may correspond to a propagation delay threshold. In another example if the delay information corresponds to an expected paging delay associated with the access network s of the target UE s the threshold value may correspond to a paging delay threshold.

Referring to in if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the delay information from the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the delay information from the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

The application server also determines the type of access network s to which each of target UE s . . . N is connected A e.g. similar to C of FIG. C . In an example the determination of A can be based on the serving networks reports not shown explicitly in as in and or of . As will be appreciated the determination of the type of access network s in A corresponds to the delay information of of in an embodiment because delay information associated with call responses the target UE s can be inferred from their respective access network type.

The application server then determines whether the type of access network s for the target UE s determined in A is included in the static list of A A. For example depending on the implementation A can determine whether at least one of the target UE s respective access networks is included in the static list whether a majority of the target UE s respective access networks are included in the static list or alternatively whether all of the target UE s respective access networks are included in the static list. Based on the determination of A the application server can determine whether to implement the GTP type floor grant mechanism or the OTP type floor grant mechanism. Generally if a relatively high proportion of the target UE s access network types are determined to be in the static list in A then call set up will be expected to undergo relatively high delays before call responses are obtained at the application server such that the application server implements the OTP type floor grant mechanism. Otherwise if a relatively low proportion of the target UE s access network types are determined to be in the static list in A then call set up will be expected to undergo relatively low delays before call responses are obtained at the application server such that the application server implements the GTP type floor grant mechanism. Referring to in A if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in A if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

The application server also determines the type of access network s to which each of target UE s . . . N is connected B e.g. similar to C of of . In an example the determination of B can be based on the serving networks reports not shown explicitly in as in and or of . The application server then determines expected paging cycles associated with the type of access network s determined in B B. As will be appreciated the determination of the associated paging cycle s in B corresponds to the delay information of of in an embodiment because delay information associated with call responses by the target UE s can be inferred from their respective paging cycle s .

The application server then determines whether the paging cycle s determined in B are less than the paging cycle threshold from B B. For example if each of target UE s are connected to the same type of network the paging cycle of the network is compared against the paging cycle threshold in B. Alternatively if two or more of the target UE s are connected to different networks the application server can compute an average paging cycle for the target UE s and can use the average paging cycle in the comparison with the paging cycle threshold in B. In another alternative example instead of using the average paging cycle for the target UE s in the comparison the application server can use the 50percentile e.g. median paging cycle from among target UE s . . . N the 95percentile paging cycle from among target UE s . . . N and so on.

Referring to in B if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the paging cycle comparison e.g. for CDMA EV DO Rev. A W CDMA or LTE networks the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in B if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the paging cycle comparison e.g. for CDMA EV DO Rel. 0 networks the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

The application server also determines the type of access network s to which each of target UE s . . . N is connected C e.g. similar to C of A of of . In an example the determination of C can be based on the serving networks reports not shown explicitly in as in and or of . The application server then determines expected propagation delay s e.g. between the access point of the network and the target UE s associated with the type of access network s determined in C C. As will be appreciated the determination of the associated propagation delay s in C corresponds to the delay information of of in an embodiment because delay information associated with call responses from the target UE s can be inferred from their respective propagation delay s .

The application server then determines whether the propagation delay s determined in C are less than the propagation delay threshold from C C. For example if each of target UE s are connected to the same type of network the propagation delay of the network is compared against the propagation delay threshold in C. Alternatively if two or more of the target UE s are connected to different networks the application server can compute an average propagation delay for the target UE s and can use the average propagation delay in the comparison with the propagation delay threshold in the comparison of C. In another alternative example instead of the average propagation delay for the target UE s the application server can use the 50percentile e.g. median expected propagation delay from among target UE s . . . N the 95percentile expected propagation delay from among target UE s . . . N and so on.

Referring to in C if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the paging cycle comparison e.g. for LEO or terrestrial access networks the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in C if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the paging cycle comparison e.g. for GEO networks the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

As will be appreciated the paging cycle delay e.g. and the propagation delay e.g. are two important components that factor into the total delay for setting up the communication session. While are directed to evaluating these individual components is directed to an embodiment whereby the expected session set up delay for the communication session is determined and used to select between OTP type and GTP type floor grant protocols.

The application server then determines or calculates an expected session set up delay for the communication session D. In an example the session set up delay can be based on the network type s of the target UE s as in the expected paging cycle delay from and or the expected propagation delay from . The session set up delay can also include other factors such as backhaul delays user delays that occur while users decide whether or not to answer the call announcement message and so on. Thus the session set up delay in D is an estimate of the time duration between the call announcement message and when a given target UE will provide a response to the call announcement message. For example the session set up delay determined in D can correspond to the average expected session set up delay among target UE s . . . N the 50percentile e.g. median expected session set up delay from among target UE s . . . N the 95percentile expected session set up delay from among target UE s . . . N and so on.

The application server then determines whether the session set up delay determined in D is less than the session set up delay threshold from D D. Referring to in D if the application server determines to implement a GTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the session set up delay comparison the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then waits to receive an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N before granting the floor to the session originator or UE . Otherwise in D if the application server determines to implement a OTP type floor grant mechanism or protocol based on the session set up delay comparison the process advances to A of or B of whereby the application server transmits the call announcement message s and then grants the floor to the session originator or UE before receiving an accept call message from a first responder among target UE s . . . N.

Above embodiments have been described whereby the decision between the OTP type and GTP type floor grant mechanisms is based on either probabilistic information associated with a failure of target UE s to accept a call announcement message e.g. as in or session set up delay e.g. as in . In another embodiment of the invention both the probabilistic information associated with call accept failure and session set up delay can be taken into account in the selection between the OTP type and GTP type floor grant mechanisms.

At this point the application server determines information associated with a probability that UE s . . . N will fail to accept the communication session and the application server further determines delay information associated with call responses by the target UE s . . . N . In an example the determination of can correspond to of and the determination of can correspond to of . The application server then uses the information determined in and to select between the OTP type and GTP type floor grant mechanisms for the communication session .

In an example referring to the application server can compute the probability of the target UE s . . . N fail to accept the call within a given delay threshold e.g. 1 sec 2 sec etc . For example based on the determination from the application server can determine a certain set of target UEs are unlikely to respond to the call announcement message at all. Then from the remaining target UEs that are expected to provide some type of response to the call announcement message the determination of can determine e.g. based on the respective network type s reported in and which target UEs are expected to be able to provide a response within a threshold period of time.

For example in general the probability of call response failure within the threshold period of time will be smaller for target UEs in fast response networks than those in slow response networks. For example the probability of a target in 1xEV DO Rev. A network e.g. having paging cycle of 213.33 msec failing to accept the call within the threshold period of time e.g. 1 second may be smaller than the probability of a target UE in 1xEV DO Rel. 0 network e.g. having paging cycle of . seconds . When most targets of an incident call are located in the 1xEV DO Rev. A network the probability of the application server not getting any accept call message from any of the targets within the given delay threshold will be relatively small. If the probability is smaller than a given threshold P the application server selects the GTP based floor grant mechanism in . On the other hand when zero or only few targets are located in a 1xEV DO Rev. A network and a substantial number of other targets are located in a 1xEV DO Rel. 0 network it is likely that the probability of the application server not getting any accept call message from any of the targets within the given delay threshold is not too small. If the probability is greater than the given threshold P the application server selects the OTP based floor grant mechanism.

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been described with respect to terminology that is specific to CDMA W CDMA and or EV DO protocols it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention can be modified to comply with other wireless telecommunication protocols such as UMTS LTE and or SAE in an example. For example in a UMTS implementation the above described call flows are still generally applicable. However the terminology of PDP context RNC or RNC SGSN and GGSN may instead be described as Evolved Packet System EPS bearer eNodeB Serving Gateway GW and packet data network PDN GW respectively. Accordingly the technical modifications to conform the CDMA or WCDMA implementation described above to a LTE LTE Advance or any other radio access network implementation are well within the abilities of one of ordinary skill in the art.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

