---

title: IAP inhibitors
abstract: The present invention describes compounds, processes for their preparation, pharmaceutical compositions containing them, and their use in therapy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08415486&OS=08415486&RS=08415486
owner: TetraLogic Pharmaceuticals Corp.
number: 08415486
owner_city: Malvern
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100527
---
The present invention describes compounds that are inhibitors of IAPs inhibitors of apoptosis proteins processes for their preparation pharmaceutical compositions containing them and their use in therapy. The compounds of the present invention are useful in the treatment of cancer autoimmune diseases and other disorders.

Apoptosis programmed cell death plays a central role in the development and homeostasis of all multi cellular organisms. Apoptosis can be initiated within a cell from an external factor such as a chemokine an extrinsic pathway or via an intracellular event such a DNA damage an intrinsic pathway . Alterations in apoptotic pathways have been implicated in many types of human pathologies including developmental disorders cancer autoimmune diseases as well as neurodegenerative disorders. One mode of action of chemotherapeutic drugs is cell death via apoptosis.

Apoptosis is conserved across species and executed primarily by activated caspases a family of cysteine proteases with aspartate specificity in their substrates. These cysteine containing aspartate specific proteases caspases are produced in cells as catalytically inactive zymogens and are proteolytically processed to become active proteases during apoptosis. Once activated effector caspases are responsible for proteolytic cleavage of a broad spectrum of cellular targets that ultimately lead to cell death. In normal surviving cells that have not received an apoptotic stimulus most caspases remain inactive. If caspases are aberrantly activated their proteolytic activity can be inhibited by a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins called IAPs inhibitors of apoptosis proteins .

The IAP family of proteins suppresses apoptosis by preventing the activation of procaspases and inhibiting the enzymatic activity of mature caspases. Several distinct mammalian IAPs including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 ML IAP NAIP neuronal apoptosis inhibiting protein Bruce and survivin have been identified and they all exhibit anti apoptotic activity in cell culture. IAPs were originally discovered in baculovirus by their functional ability to substitute for P35 protein an anti apoptotic gene. IAPs have been described in organisms ranging from Drosophila to human and are known to be overexpressed in many human cancers. Generally speaking IAPs comprise one to three Baculovirus IAP repeat BIR domains and most of them also possess a carboxyl terminal RING finger motif. The BIR domain itself is a zinc binding domain of about 70 residues comprising 4 alpha helices and 3 beta strands with cysteine and histidine residues that coordinate the zinc ion. It is the BIR domain that is believed to cause the anti apoptotic effect by inhibiting the caspases and thus inhibiting apoptosis. XIAP is expressed ubiquitously in most adult and fetal tissues. Overexpression of XIAP in tumor cells has been demonstrated to confer protection against a variety of pro apoptotic stimuli and promotes resistance to chemotherapy. Consistent with this a strong correlation between XIAP protein levels and survival has been demonstrated for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. Down regulation of XIAP expression by antisense oligonucleotides has been shown to sensitize tumor cells to death induced by a wide range of pro apoptotic agents both in vitro and in vivo

In normal cells signaled to undergo apoptosis however the IAP mediated inhibitory effect must be removed a process at least in part performed by a mitochondrial protein named Smac second mitochondrial activator of caspases . Smac or DIABLO is synthesized as a precursor molecule of 239 amino acids the N terminal 55 residues serve as the mitochondria targeting sequence that is removed after import. The mature form of Smac contains 184 amino acids and behaves as an oligomer in solution. Smac and various fragments thereof have been proposed for use as targets for identification of therapeutic agents.

Smac is synthesized in the cytoplasm with an N terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence that is proteolytically removed during maturation to the mature polypeptide and is then targeted to the inter membrane space of mitochondria. At the time of apoptosis induction Smac is released from mitochondria into the cytosol together with cytochrome c where it binds to IAPs and enables caspase activation therein eliminating the inhibitory effect of IAPs on apoptosis. Whereas cytochrome c induces multimerization of Apaf 1 to activate procaspase 9 and 3 Smac eliminates the inhibitory effect of multiple IAPs. Smac interacts with essentially all IAPs that have been examined to date including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 ML IAP and survivin. Thus Smac appears to be a master regulator of apoptosis in mammals.

It has been shown that Smac promotes not only the proteolytic activation of procaspases but also the enzymatic activity of mature caspase both of which depend upon its ability to interact physically with IAPs. X ray crystallography has shown that the first four amino acids AVPI of mature Smac bind to a portion of IAPs. This N terminal sequence is essential for binding IAPs and blocking their anti apoptotic effects.

Currently there are drug discovery efforts aimed at identifying compounds that interfere with the role played by IAPs in disease states where a defect in apoptosis is implicated such as in cancers and autoimmune diseases. Indeed a number of IAP inhibitors that mimic the interactions of the Smac tetrapeptide are now known and possess pro apoptotic activity in vitro and in vivo. The art continues to look for additional compounds that may function as IAP inhibitors.

The present invention provides IAP inhibitors Smac mimetics as well as therapeutic methods of using these inhibitors to modulate apoptosis.

In one embodiment which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed below the present invention provides compounds of Formula I 

In another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the various substituents of Formula I are defined as follows 

In another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the various substituents of Formula I are defined as follows 

In another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below various substituents of Formula I are defined as follows 

In still another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below various substituents of Formula I are defined as follows 

In another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the various substituents of Formula I are defined as follows 

In yet another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below amino comprises a group having a formula NHR3 or NR3R4 where the R3 and R4 groups can be the same or different and are selected from the groups consisting of alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl.

In another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below R5 is selected from H phenyl biphenyl fluorophenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl benzyl fluorobenzyl pyrrolidinyl carbonyl piperidyl carbonyl morpholinyl carbonyl benzyl carbamoyl phenyl carbamoyl naphthyl carbamoyl ethyl carbamoyl n butyl carbamoyl isopropyl carbamoyl tert butyl carbamoyl cyclopropyl carbamoyl cyclohexyl carbamoyl diphenylamino carbonyl or methyl phenyl amino carbonyl.

In still another embodiment the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below R6 is selected from H ethyl cyclopropyl cyclohexyl acetyl tert butoxy carbonyl 3 methyl butyryl 2 oxo propionyl methylsulfonyl 2 methyl propylsulfonyl methyl carbamoyl isopropyl carbamoyl dimethyl carbamoylbenzyl carbamoyl tetrahydro pyanyl or pyrimidinyl.

In one embodiment the separate elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the compounds of Formula I particularly those where X1 and X2 are O and R1a is H or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts have the absolute configuration of formula I S as follows with the various substituents having the same definitions presented above in connection with all of the embodiments associated with formula I 

In related compounds the separate elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of Formula I particularly those where X1 and X2 are O and R1a is H have the absolute configuration of formula I R as follows with the various substituents having the same definitions presented above in connection with all of the embodiments associated with formula I 

In all of the embodiments identified above and below dimers are also encompassed within the scope of this invention. Dimerization of monomeric Smac mimetics has been shown to provide useful Smac mimetics. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 906 US20080020986 WO200814236 WO200814238 and WO200814240 all of which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

Dimeric Smac mimetics of the invention generally comprise the formula Formula I L Formula I as depicted here 

L is a Linker L i.e. a bond or a linking group whereby two chemical moieties are directly covalently linked one to the other or are indirectly linked via a chemical moiety that covalently links the two chemical moieties in either case to form a homo or heterodimer. A Linker therefore is a single or double covalent bond or is a contiguous chain branched or unbranched substituted or unsubstituted of 1 to about 100 atoms typically 1 to about 30 atoms and typically up to about 500 MW e.g. optionally substituted alkyl alkylene alkylyne cycloalkyl alkylcycloalkyl alkylarylalkyl chain of 2 to 20 atoms with 1 4 heteroatoms selected from O NH and S . Illustrative Linkers are described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 906 U.S. Pat. No. 7 309 792 US20080020986 WO200814236 WO200814238 and WO200814240 US 20050197403 U.S. Pat. No. 7 589 118 WO2010031171 WO2007131366 WO2007104162 and WO2008134679 all of which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

More specifically in this embodiment. the invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein

In other embodiments the elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the present invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

In other embodiments the elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the present invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

In other embodiments the elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the present invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

In other embodiments the elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the present invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

In other embodiments the elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above and below the present invention provides a compound that is a dimer of two monomers of Formula I or two monomers of Formula I S or one monomer of Formula I S and one monomer of Formula I R or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

In still other embodiments the various elements of which can be practiced either separately or in combination with the other embodiments disclosed above R5 is selected from H 

In all of the embodiments identified above the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds embraced by the foregoing formulae are also included in each of the embodiments.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the invention are described by referring mainly to specific illustrative embodiments thereof. In addition in the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In other instances well known methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention.

 Alkyl monovalent and alkylene divalent when alone or as part of another term e.g. alkoxy mean branched or unbranched saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon group having up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. Examples of particular alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 methylbutyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl n hexyl 2 methylpentyl 2 2 dimethylbutyl n heptyl 3 heptyl 2 methylhexyl and the like. The term lower when used to modify alkyl alkenyl etc. means 1 to 4 carbon atoms branched or linear so that e.g. the terms lower alkyl C Calkyl and alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms are synonymous and used interchangeably to mean methyl ethyl 1 propyl isopropyl 1 butyl sec butyl or t butyl. Examples of alkylene groups include but are not limited to methylene ethylene n propylene n butylene and 2 methyl butylene.

The term substituted alkyl refers to alkyl moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more often no more than four carbon atoms of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of a halogen e.g. I Br Cl or F particularly fluoro F hydroxy amino cyano mercapto alkoxy such as a C Calkoxy or a lower C Calkoxy e.g. methoxy or ethoxy to yield an alkoxyalkyl aryloxy such as phenoxy to yield an aryloxyalkyl nitro oxo e.g. to form a carbonyl carboxyl which is actually the combination of an oxo and hydroxy substituent on a single carbon atom carbamoyl also known as an aminocarbonyl such as NRC O which is the substitution of an oxo and an amino on a single carbon atom cycloalkyl e.g. a cycloalkylalkyl aryl resulting for example in aralkyls such as benzyl or phenylethyl heterocyclylalkyl e.g. heterocycloalkylalkyl heteroaryl e.g. heteroarylalkyl alkylsulfonyl including lower alkylsulfonyl such as methylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl such as phenylsulfonyl and OCF which is a halogen substituted alkoxy . The invention further contemplates that several of these alkyl substituents including specifically alkoxy cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclyalkyl and heteroaryl are optionally further substituted as defined in connection with each of their respective definitions provided below. In addition certain alkyl substituent moieties result from a combination of such substitutions on a single carbon atom. For example an ester moiety e.g. an alkoxycarbonyl such as methoxycarbonyl or tert butoxycarbonyl Boc results from such substitution. In particular methoxycarbonyl and Boc are substituted alkyls that result from the substitution on a methyl group CH of both an oxo O and an unsubstituted alkoxy e.g. a methoxy CH O or a tert butoxy CH C O respectively replacing the three hydrogens. Similarly an amide moiety e.g. an alkylaminocarbonyl such as dimethlyaminocarbonyl or methylaminocarbonyl is a substituted alkyl that results from the substitution on a methyl group CH of both an oxo O and a mono unsubstitutedalkylamino or diunsubstitutedalkylamino e.g. dimethylamino N CH or methylamino NH CH replacing the three hydrogens similarly an arylaminocarbonyl such as diphenylaminocarbonyl is a substituted alkyl that results from the substitution on a methyl group CH of both an oxo O and a mono unsubstitutedaryl phenyl amino . Exemplary substituted alkyl groups further include cyanomethyl nitromethyl hydroxyalkyls such as hydroxymethyl trityloxymethyl propionyloxymethyl aminoalkyls such as aminomethyl carboxylalkyls such as carboxymethyl carboxyethyl carboxypropyl 2 3 dichloropentyl 3 hydroxy 5 carboxyhexyl acetyl e.g. an alkanoyl where in the case of acetyl the two hydrogen atoms on the CHportion of an ethyl group are replaced by an oxo O 2 aminopropyl pentachlorobutyl trifluoromethyl methoxyethyl 3 hydroxypentyl 4 chlorobutyl 1 2 dimethyl propyl pentafluoroethyl alkyloxycarbonylmethyl allyloxycarbonylaminomethyl carbamoyloxymethyl methoxymethyl ethoxymethyl t butoxymethyl acetoxymethyl chloromethyl bromomethyl iodomethyl trifluoromethyl 6 hydroxyhexyl 2 4 dichloro n butyl 2 amino iso propyl cycloalkylcarbonyl e.g. cuclopropylcarbonyl and 2 carbamoyloxyethyl. Particular substituted alkyls are substituted methyl groups. Examples of substituted methyl group include groups such as hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl e.g. tetrahydropyranyl oxymethyl acetoxymethyl carbamoyloxymethyl trifluoromethyl chloromethyl carboxymethyl carboxyl where the three hydrogen atoms on the methyl are replaced two of the hydrogens are replaced by an oxo O and the other hydrogen is replaced by a hydroxy OH tert butoxycarbonyl where the three hydrogen atoms on the methyl are replaced two of the hydrogens are replaced by an oxo O and the other hydrogen is replaced by a tert butoxy O C CH bromomethyl and iodomethyl. When the specification and especially the claims refer to a particular substituent for an alkyl that substituent can potentially occupy one or more of the substitutable positions on the allyl. For example reciting that an alkyl has a fluoro substituent would embrace mono di and possibly a higher degree of substitution on the alkyl moiety.

The term substituted alkylene refers to alkylene moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more often no more than four carbon atoms of the hydrocarbon backbone where the alkylene is similarly substituted with groups as set forth above for alkyl.

Alkoxy is O alkyl. A substituted alkoxy is O substituted alkyl where the alkoxy is similarly substituted with groups as set forth above for alkyl. One substituted alkoxy is acetoxy where two of the hydrogens in ethoxy e.g. O CH CH are replaced by an oxo O to yield O C O CH another is an aralkoxy where one of the hydrogens in the alkoxy is replaced by an aryl such as benzyloxy and another is a carbamate where two of the hydrogens on methoxy e.g. O CH are replaced by oxo O and the other hydrogen is replaced by an amino e.g. NH NHR or NRR to yield for example O C O NH. A lower alkoxy is O lower alkyl.

 Alkenyl monovalent and alkenylene divalent when alone or as part of another term mean an unsaturated hydrocarbon group containing at least one carbon carbon double bond typically 1 or 2 carbon carbon double bonds which may be linear or branched and which have at least 2 and up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. Representative alkenyl groups include by way of example vinyl allyl isopropenyl but 2 enyl n pent 2 enyl and n hex 2 enyl.

The terms substituted alkenyl and substituted alkenylene refer to alkenyl and alkenylene moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more often no more than four carbon atoms of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halo e.g. I Br Cl F hydroxy amino cyano alkoxy such as C Calkoxy aryloxy such as phenoxy nitro mercapto carboxyl oxo carbamoyl cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and OCF.

 Alkynyl means a monovalent unsaturated hydrocarbon group containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond typically 1 carbon carbon triple bond which may be linear or branched and which have at least 2 and up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. Representative alkynyl groups include by way of example ethynyl propargyl and but 2 ynyl.

 Cycloalkyl when alone or as part of another term means a saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic aliphatic hydrocarbon group carbocycle group having up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified such as cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl and further includes polycyclic including fused cycloalkyls such as 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalenyls 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl and 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalen 2 yl indanyls indan 1yl and indan 2 yl isoindenyls isoinden 1 yl isoinden 2 yl and isoinden 3 yl and indenyls inden 1 yl inden 2 yl and inden 3 yl . A lower cycloalkyl has from 3 to 6 carbon atoms and includes cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

The term substituted cycloalkyl refers to cycloalkyl moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more often no more than four carbon atoms of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halo e.g. I Br Cl F hydroxy amino cyano alkoxy such as C Calkoxy substituted alkoxy aryloxy such as phenoxy nitro mercapto carboxyl oxo carbamoyl alkyl substituted alkyls such as trifluoromethyl aryl substituted aryls heterocyclyl heteroaryl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and OCF. When the specification and especially the claims refer to a particular substituent for a cycloalkyl that substituent can potentially occupy one or more of the substitutable positions on the cycloalkyl. For example reciting that a cycloalkyl has a fluoro substituent would embrace mono di and a higher degree of substitution on the cycloalkyl moiety. Examples of cycloalkyls include cyclopropy cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl tetrahydronaphthyl and indanyl.

 Amino denotes primary i.e. NH secondary i.e. NHR and tertiary i.e. NRR amines where the R groups can be the same or different and can be selected from a variety of moieties usually an alkyl a substituted alkyl an aryl a substituted aryl a cycloalkyl or a substituted cyclosalkyl and especially a lower alkyl and an aryl phenyl including substituted phenyl. Particular secondary and tertiary aminos are alkylaminos dialkylaminos arylaminos diarylaminos aralkylaminos and diaralkylaminos. Particular secondary and tertiary amines are methylamino ethylamino propylamino isopropylamino phenylamino benzylamino dimethylamino diethylamino dipropylamino and disopropylamino.

 Aryl when used alone or as part of another term means an aromatic carbocyclic group whether or not fused having the number of carbon atoms designated or if no number is designated from 6 up to 14 carbon atoms. Particular aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl biphenyl phenanthrenyl naphthacenyl and the like see e.g. Lang s Handbook of Chemistry Dean J. A. ed 13ed. Table 7 2 1985 . Phenyl and naphthyl groups are generally preferred.

The term substituted aryl refers to aryl moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more usually no more than six carbon atoms of the aromatic hydrocarbon core. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halo e.g. I Br Cl F hydroxy amino cyano alkoxy such as C Calkoxy and particularly lower alkoxy substituted alkoxy aryloxy such as phenoxy nitro mercapto carboxyl carbamoyl alkyl substituted alkyl such as trifluoromethyl aryl OCF alkylsulfonyl including lower alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl. Examples of such substituted phenyls include but are not limited to a mono or di halo substituted phenyl groups such as 2 chlorophenyl 2 bromophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 6 dichlorophenyl 2 5 dichlorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 3 chlorophenyl 3 bromophenyl 4 bromophenyl 3 4 dibromophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 fluorophenyl 3 fluorophenyl 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 difluorophenyl a mono or di hydroxy phenyl group such as 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl the protected hydroxy derivatives thereof a nitrophenyl group such as 3 or 4 nitrophenyl a cyanophenyl group for example 4 cyanophenyl a mono or di lower alkyl phenyl group such as 4 methylphenyl 2 4 dimethylphenyl 2 methylphenyl 4 iso propyl phenyl 4 ethylphenyl 3 n propyl phenyl a mono or di alkoxy phenyl group for example 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 ethoxyphenyl 4 isopropoxy phenyl 4 t butoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenyl 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl a mono or dicarboxyphenyl or protected carboxy phenyl group such 4 carboxyphenyl a mono or di hydroxymethyl phenyl or protected hydroxymethyl phenyl such as 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenyl or 3 4 di hydroxymethyl phenyl a mono or di aminomethyl phenyl or protected aminomethyl phenyl such as 2 aminomethyl phenyl or 2 4 protected aminomethyl phenyl or a mono or di N methylsulfonylamino phenyl such as 3 N methylsulfonylamino phenyl. Also the substituents such as in a disubstituted phenyl groups can be the same or different for example 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenyl 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenyl as well as for trisubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different as for example 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonylamino 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 phenyl sulfonylamino and tetrasubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different such as 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 5 methyl 6 phenyl sulfonylamino. Particular substituted phenyl groups are 2 chlorophenyl 2 aminophenyl 2 bromophenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy phenyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 4 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 4 diethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonyl aminophenyl groups. When the specification and especially the claims refer to a particular substituent for an aryl that substituent can potentially occupy one or more of the substitutable positions on the aryl. For example reciting that an aryl has a fluoro substituent would embrace mono di tri tetra and a higher degree of substitution on the aryl moiety. Fused aryl rings may also be substituted with the substituents specified herein for example with 1 2 or 3 substituents in the same manner as substituted alkyl groups. The terms aryl and substituted aryl do not include moieties in which an aromatic ring is fused to a saturated or partially unsaturated aliphatic ring.

Aryloxy is O aryl. A substituted aryloxy is O substituted aryl where the suitable substituents are those described for a substituted aryl.

 Heterocyclic group heterocyclic heterocycle heterocyclyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocyclo alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group are used interchangeably and refer to any mono bi or tricyclic saturated or unsaturated non aromatic hetero atom containing ring system having the number of atoms designated or if no number is specifically designated then from 5 to about 14 atoms where the ring atoms are carbon and at least one heteroatom and usually not more than four heteroatoms i.e. nitrogen sulfur or oxygen . Included in the definition are any bicyclic groups where any of the above heterocyclic rings are fused to an aromatic ring i.e. an aryl e.g. benzene or a heteroaryl ring . The heterocycloalkyl can be bonded to the structure through either a ring carbon or a ring heteroatom as appropriate. In a particular embodiment the group incorporates 1 to 4 heteroatoms. Typically a 5 membered ring has 0 to 1 double bonds and a 6 or 7 membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds and the nitrogen or sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized e.g. SO SO and any nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. Particular unsubstituted non aromatic heterocycles include morpholinyl morpholino pyrrolidinyls oxiranyl indolinyls e.g. 2 3 dihydroindolyl isoindolinyls tetrahydroquinolinyls tetrahydroisoquinolinyls oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyls 2 3 dihydrofuranyl 2H pyranyls tetrahydropyranyls aziridinyls azetidinyls 1 methyl 2 pyrrolyl piperazinyls and piperidinyls.

The term substituted heterocycloalkyl refers to heterocycloalkyl moieties having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more usually no more than six atoms of the heterocycloalkyl backbone. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halo e.g. I Br Cl F hydroxy amino cyano alkoxy such as C Calkoxy substituted alkoxy aryloxy such as phenoxy nitro carboxyl oxo carbamoyl alkyl substituted alkyl such as trifluoromethyl OCF aryl substituted aryl alkylsulfonyl including lower alkylsulfonyl and arylsulfonyl. When the specification and especially the claims refer to a particular substituent for a heterocycloalkyl that substituent can potentially occupy one or more of the substitutable positions on the heterocycloalkyl. For example reciting that a heterocycloalkyl has a fluoro substituent would embrace mono di tri tetra and a higher degree of substitution on the heterocycloalkyl moiety.

 Heteroaryl alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group refers to any mono bi or tricyclic aromatic ring system having the number of atoms designated or if no number is specifically designated then at least one ring is a 5 6 or 7 membered ring and the total number of atoms is from 5 to about 14 and containing from one to four heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur Lang s Handbook of Chemistry supra . Included in the definition are any bicyclic groups where any of the above heteroaryl rings are fused to a benzene ring. The heteraryl can be bonded to the structure through either a ring carbon or a ring heteroatom as appropriate. The following ring systems are examples of the heteroaryl groups denoted by the term heteroaryl thienyls alternatively called thiophenyl furyls imidazolyls pyrazolyls thiazolyls isothiazolyls oxazolyls isoxazolyls triazolyls thiadiazolyls oxadiazolyls tetrazolyls thiatriazolyls oxatriazolyls pyridyls pyrimidinyls e.g. pyrimidin 2 yl pyrazinyls pyridazinyls thiazinyls oxazinyls triazinyls thiadiazinyls oxadiazinyls dithiazinyls dioxazinyls oxathiazinyls tetrazinyls thiatriazinyls oxatriazinyls dithiadiazinyls imidazolinyls dihydropyrimidyls tetrahydropyrimidyls tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazinyl and purinyls as well as benzo fused derivatives for example benzoxazolyls benzofuryls benzothienyls benzothiazolyls benzothiadiazolyl benzotriazolyls benzoimidazolyls isoindolyls indazolyls indolizinyls indolyls naphthyridines pyridopyrimidines phthalazinyls quinolyls isoquinolyls and quinazolinyls.

The term substituted heteroaryl refers to heteroaryl moieties such as those identified above having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more usually no more than six atoms of the heteroaryl backbone. Such substituents are independently selected from the group consisting of halo e.g. I Br Cl F hydroxy amino cyano alkoxy such as C Calkoxy aryloxy such as phenoxy nitro mercapto carboxyl carbamoyl alkyl substituted alkyl such as trifluoromethyl OCF aryl substituted aryl alkylsulfonyl including lower alkylsulfonyl and arylsulfonyl. When the specification and especially the claims refer to a particular substituent for a heteroaryl that substituent can potentially occupy one or more of the substitutable positions on the heteroaryl. For example reciting that a heteroaryl has a fluoro substituent would embrace mono di tri tetra and a higher degree of substitution on the heteroaryl moiety.

Particular heteroaryls including substituted heteroaryls include 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 methyl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 hydroxy 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 hydroxymethyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 thiol 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 methylthio 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 amino 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 4 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl pyrid 2 yl N oxide 6 methoxy 2 n oxide pyridaz 3 yl 6 hydroxypyridaz 3 yl 1 methylpyrid 2 yl 1 methylpyrid 4 yl 2 hydroxypyrimid 4 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy astriazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl astriazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 methoxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 6 dimethyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl quinol 2 yl quinol 3 yl quinol 4 yl quinol 5 yl quinol 6 yl quinol 8 yl 2 methyl quinol 4 yl 6 fluoro quinol 4 yl 2 methyl 8 fluoro quinol 4 yl isoquinol 5 yl isoquinol 8 yl isoquinol 1 yl and quinazolin 4 yl. An alternative group of heteroaryl includes 5 methyl 2 phenyl 2H pyrazol 3 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 2 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl and 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl.

 IAP Inhibitor or IAP antagonist means a compound 1 which interferes with the physiological function of an IAP protein including the binding of IAP proteins to caspase proteins for example by reducing or preventing the binding of IAP proteins to caspase proteins or 2 which reduces or prevents the inhibition of apoptosis by an IAP protein or 3 which binds to an IAP BIR domain in a manner similar to the binding of the amino terminal portion of Smac or 4 has any two or all three of the preceding functions.

As used herein the terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions excipients carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials can be administered to a subject or patient especially a human patient.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those non toxic salts which retain the biological effectiveness and essential properties of the associated free bases and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and are formed with inorganic acids and with organic acids. The acid addition salts of the basic compounds are prepared by contacting the free base form of the compound with a sufficient amount of the desired acid to produce the salt in the conventional manner. The free base form may be regenerated by contacting the salt form with a base and isolating the free base in the conventional manner. The free base forms generally differ from their respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts refer to those non toxic salts which retain the biological effectiveness and essential properties of the associated free acids and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and are formed with metals or amines such as alkali and alkaline earth metal hydroxides or with organic amines. The base addition salts of acidic compounds are prepared by contacting the free acid form with a sufficient amount of the desired base to produce the salt in the conventional manner. The free acid form may be regenerated by contacting the salt form with an acid and isolating the free acid in a conventional manner. The free acid forms usually differ from their respective salt forms somewhat in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents.

The terms treating treat or treatment and the like include preventative e.g. prophylactic and palliative treatment.

As used herein subject or patient refers to an animal or mammal including but not limited to human dog cat horse cow pig sheep goat chicken monkey rabbit rat and mouse.

As used herein the term therapeutic refers to the amelioration of the prevention of an improvement of or a delay in the onset of one or more symptoms of an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to therapeutic treatments by promoting apoptosis and thus cell death.

The terms therapeutically effective amount or effective amount as used herein means an amount of a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof often as part of a pharmaceutical composition sufficient to inhibit halt ameliorate attenuate delay the onset of or cause an improvement in one or more symptoms of the disease being treated when administered alone or in conjunction with another pharmaceutical agent for treatment in a particular subject or subject population. For example in a human or other mammal a therapeutically effective amount can be determined experimentally in a laboratory or clinical setting or may be the amount required by the guidelines of the United States Food and Drug Administration or equivalent foreign agency for the particular disease and subject being treated.

The term excipient means any pharmaceutically acceptable additive carrier diluent adjuvant or other ingredient other than the active pharmaceutical ingredient API which is typically included for formulation and or administration to a patient.

It has been demonstrated in accordance with the present invention that the IAP binding compounds of the present invention which are Smac mimetics are capable of potentiating apoptosis of cells.

Compounds of the present invention can be used in their free base or free acid forms or in the form of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. In the practice of the present invention compounds of the present invention in their free base or free acid forms generally will have a molecular weight of 1000 or below most often a molecular weight of 800 or below and often a molecular weight of 600 or below.

The following preparations and schemes are illustrative of synthesis of compounds of the present invention. Abbreviations which are used throughout these schemes and in the application generally are identified in the following table 

Abbreviations for NMR data reported in the following examples are as follows s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet m multiplet dd doublet of doublets ddd doublet of doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets app apparent br broad indicates the chemical shift J and Jindicate NMR coupling constants measured in Hertz.

The binding affinities of compounds of the present invention to XIAP BIR 3 or to cIAP 1 BIR 3 as reported below as ranges were determined substantially as described by Nikolovska Coleska Z. et. al. Analytical Biochemistry 2004 vol. 332 261 273 and incorporated herein by reference using as the fluorogenic substrate the fluorescently labeled peptide AbuRPF K 5 Fam NH. The binding affinities of the compounds are reported as a Kvalue M . Briefly various concentrations of test peptides were mixed with 5 nM of the fluorescently labeled peptide i.e. a mutated N terminal Smac peptide AbuRPF K 5 Fam NH and 40 nM of the respective IAP BIR3 for 15 min at RT in 100 mL of 0.1M Potassium Phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 100 mg ml bovine g globulin. Following incubation the polarization values mP were measured on a Victor2V available from PerkinElmer Life Sciences using a 485 nm excitation filter and a 520 nm emission filter. The reported binding affinities Kvalues are supplied as ranges A 1 M to 10 M D 10 M .

Compounds of the invention also were tested for their ability to inhibit the growth of an ovarian cancer cell line SK OV 3. A known assay previously used for measuring cell growth as described in Hansen M. B. Nielsen S. E. and Berg K. 1989 119 203 210 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety was used. Briefly SK OV 3 cells are seeded in 96 well plates in McCoy s medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum albumin 5 000 per well and incubated overnight at 37 C. The next day test compounds are added at various concentrations 0.003 10 M and the plates are incubated at 37 C. for an additional 72 hrs. This incubation time was considered to be optimal for measuring inhibitory effects of the different compounds tested. 50 microliters of 5 mg mL MTT reagent is added to each well and the plates are incubated at 37 C. for another three 3 hours. At the end of the three 3 hour incubation period 50 microliters of DMSO is added to each well to dissolve cells and the optical density OD of the wells is measured with a microplate reader Victor1420 Wallac Finland at 535 nm. Cell survival CS was calculated using the following equation CS OD treated well mean OD control wells 100 .

The CC reported in the following tables is defined as the drug concentration that results in 50 cell survival CS and is derived by calculating the point where the dose response curve crosses the 50 CS point using GraphPad Prism. The reported CCvalues are supplied as ranges A 1 M to 10 M D 10 M .

4 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 2 nitro vinyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 2 To a solution of 1 25.8 g 77.8 mmol See Rosen T. et al. 1988 31 1598 1611 in DMSO 60 mL and CHCl 300 mL at 0 C. were added EtN 54 mL 389.1 mmol and SO.pyridine complex 49.5 g 311.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was then allowed to stir for 2 h at 0 C. Upon completion of the reaction the mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed successively with dilute aqueous HCl and brine and concentrated. The resultant residue was dissolved in 1 1 EtO hexanes washed successively with 1M HCl and brine to remove residual DMSO. The organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the desired prolinal 25.4 g 99 as a pale yellow colored oil which was used without further purification.

To a solution of prolinal 25.4 g 77.1 mmol in CHNO 128 mL at 0 C. was added EtN 10 mL . The reaction mixture was then stirred for an additional 17 h warming gradually to ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was concentrated twice from toluene to remove any residual water. The crude alcohols 29.8 g 99 were used without further purification.

To a solution of alcohols 29.8 g 76.4 mmol and EtN 42.6 mL 305.9 mmol in CHCl 400 mL at 78 C. was added dropwise a solution of SOCl 7.2 mL 99.4 mmol in CHClover a period of 1 h during which time the reaction mixture becomes brown and heterogeneous. The reaction mixture was then stirred for an additional 15 min after which time it was concentrated to form a brown residue. The residue was slurried in 10 EtOAc hexanes and purified by flash silica gel chromatography 10 15 EtOAc hexanes to afford 2 15.1 g 53 as an orange colored solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.08 dd J 6.9 13.5 Hz 1H 6.96 d J 13.5 Hz 1H 4.51 dd J 6.3 35.8 Hz 1H 4.29 s 1H 3.51 3.36 m 2H 2.08 ddd J 3.3 7.5 11.4 Hz 1H 1.79 s 1H 1.38 s 9H 0.79 s 9H 0.05 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 273.1 M Boc .

4 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 2 nitro ethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 3 A 1 L round bottomed flask was charged with NaBH 3.2 g 84.5 mmol in THF 300 mL and then cooled to 20 C. Water 50 mL was added to the reaction mixture followed by the dropwise addition of 2 6.3 g 16.9 mmol in THF 50 mL over 1 h. After an additional 30 min the cold reaction mixture was quenched by the careful addition of 1M HCl 60 mL . The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was chromatographed by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 5.9 g 93 of 3. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 4.48 m 1H 4.32 m 1H 4.08 m 1H 3.55 m 0.4H 3.38 m 0.6H 3.28 app dd J 11.7 4.2 Hz 1H 2.32 m 1H 2.18 m 1H 2.04 m 2H 1.67 m 1H 1.45 s 9H 0.85 s 9H 0.05 s 6H ppm.

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 4 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with 3 5.9 g 15.7 mmol in absolute EtOH 50 mL . Raney nickel 1 mL 2400 Ni slurry in HO was added and the heterogeneous reaction mixture was shaken at 55 PSI hydrogen pressure. After 1 h the catalyst was removed by filtration and the solids were washed with MeOH EtOAc water. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The organic solution was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 5.59 g of crude amine which was used without further purification.

The crude amine was dissolved in DCM 100 mL and cooled to 0 C. Cbz Cl 2.95 g 17.3 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 9 1 to 4 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 5.9 g 78 2 steps of 4. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.32 m 5H 5.85 m 0.5H 5.61 m 0.25H 5.08 m 2H 4.87 m 0.25H 4.33 m 1H 4.05 m 0.7H 3.89 m 0.3H 3.31 m 3H 3.00 m 1H 2.00 m 2H 1.65 m 2H 1.44 s 9H 0.86 s 9H 0.05 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 379.2 M Boc .

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 5 A solution containing 4 5.9 g 12.5 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL was cooled to 0 C. TBAF 1M THF 14 mL 14.0 mmol was added in one portion. After 5 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 1 1 to 1 3 hexanes EtOAc to afford 4.1 g 91 of 5. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.31 m 5H 5.93 m 1H 5.07 m 2H 4.37 m 1H 4.03 m 1H 3.51 3.06 m 4H 2.05 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.44 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 365.2 M H .

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 oxo pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 6 A solution containing 5 10.2 g 28.0 mmol in DCM 100 mL and DMSO 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. TEA 14.1 g 140 mmol and SO.pyridine complex 17.9 g 112 mmol were then added and the mixture stirred until homogeneous approx. 45 min then warmed to ambient temperature. After 3 h the reaction mixture was diluted with water 200 mL and diethyl ether 500 mL . The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed successively with 1N HCl water aqueous NaHCO water and brine then dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 2 1 to 1 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 9.34 g 92 of 6 as a pale yellow colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.32 m 5H 5.90 br s 1H 5.09 app dd J 19.4 12.2 Hz 2H 4.52 m 1H 3.95 br d 1H 3.52 m 2H 2.93 m 1H 2.80 dd J 18.3 9.3 Hz 1H 2.22 br d 1H 1.69 m 1H 1.55 m 1H 1.57 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 363.2 M H .

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 5 dihydro pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 7 To a pre cooled 78 C. solution containing 6 400 mg 1.10 mmol in THF 10 mL was added 1M NaHMDS THF 2.43 mL in a dropwise fashion. After 45 min a solution containing TBSCl 348 mg 2.31 mmol in THF 5 mL was added to the heterogeneous reaction mixture. After 30 min the homogeneous reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl. The solution was diluted with EtOAc and the layers were separated. The organic phase was washed with brine then dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 440 mg 83 of 7 as a white foam. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.26 m 5H 5.87 m 0.25H 5.70 m 0.25H 5.48 m 0.5H app dd J 16.4 12.8 Hz 2H 4.92 m 0.3H 4.55 br s 0.7H 4.49 m 0.7H 4.39 m 0.3H 3.99 m 0.2H 3.92 m 0.4H 3.86 br s 0.4H 3.76 m 1H 3.28 m 0.5H 3.13 m 0.5H 3.03 m 0.5H 2.92 m 0.5H 1.78 m 1H 1.64 m 1H 1.38 s 9H 0.85 s 9H 0.11 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 499.2 M Na .

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 3 hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 8 A solution containing 7 440 mg 0.92 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL was cooled to 30 C. Borane 1M THF 3.68 mL was added dropwise. After 10 min the reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to 0 C. at which point TLC analysis revealed complete consumption of 7. The reaction mixture was recooled to 10 C. and 1M NaOH 2.6 mL was added followed by the addition of 35 hydrogen peroxide 0.73 mL . The reaction mixture was then warmed to 0 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous NaSOand the product was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 250 mg 55 of 8. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.25 m 5H 6.07 m 0.6H 5.93 m 0.2H 5.67 m 0.2H 5.00 m 2H 4.03 m 1.5H 3.84 m 0.75H 3.75 3.63 m 1.5H 3.54 m 1.25H 3.37 m 0.6H 3.26 m 0.4H 3.13 m 1.5H 2.95 m 0.75H 1.90 m 1H 1.67 m 1H 1.36 s 9H 0.80 s 9H 0.00 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 495.2 M H .

2 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino ethyl 4 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 3 methanesulfonyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 9 A solution containing crude 8 500 mg 1.01 mmol in DCM 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. DIPEA 261 mg 2.02 mmol was added followed by the addition of MsCl 117 mg 1.02 mmol and DMAP 13 mg 0.1 mmol . After 2 h the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 578 mg quant. of crude 9 as a tan colored foam which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.35 m 5H 5.90 m 1H 5.10 m 2H 4.67 m 1H 4.40 m 1H 4.11 m 2H 3.94 m 0.5H 3.80 m 0.5H 3.74 app dd J 12.2 5.0 Hz 1H 3.51 m 0.5H 3.31 m 0.5H 3.02 s 3H 1.96 m 0.5H 1.85 m 0.5H 1.46 s 9H 0.88 s 9H 0.05 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 595.2 M Na .

3 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 10 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with crude 9 5.6 g 9.78 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon 2 g in reagent grade MeOH 50 mL . The mixture was stirred under a balloon of Hwith a slow stream of Hbubbling through the reaction mixture. After 3 h the catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with EtOH 100 mL .

To the above filtrate containing the crude amine was added NaOAc 1.66 g 20 mmol and the mixture was concentrated to remove MeOH. was immersed into a preheated 85 90 C. oil bath. After 20 min the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature and then concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was dissolved in EtOAc 100 mL and washed successively with aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 2.4 g of the crude bicyclic amine which was used without further purification.

A solution containing the crude bicyclic amine 2.4 g 7.12 mmol in DCM 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. DIPEA 1.85 g 14.3 mmol was added followed by Cbz Cl 1.45 g 8.51 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 300 mL and washed successively with 1N HCl water aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 10 1 to 2 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 2.9 g 63 3 steps of 10 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.33 m 5H 5.28 4.96 m 2H 4.36 4.15 m 3H 3.70 3.44 m 4H 2.38 m 0.5H 2.23 m 0.5H 2.05 m 1H 1.46 s 9H 0.85 s 9H 0.01 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 477.2 M H .

3 Hydroxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 11 A solution containing 10 868 mg 1.8 mmol in THF 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. HF.pyridine reagent 1 mL 36 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed successively with water aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 1 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 600 mg 90 of 11. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.29 m 5H 5.10 app dd J 22.7 12.5 Hz 2H 4.32 m 4H 3.71 m 2H 3.58 m 1H 3.38 m 1H 3.17 m 1H 2.14 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.42 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 363.2 M H .

3 Phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 12 To a solution of 11 600 mg 1.65 mmol in THF 10 mL was added phenol 186 mg 1.98 mmol and PhP 520 mg 1.98 mmol . DIAD 459 mg 2.31 mmol was then added and the reaction mixture was immersed into a preheated 75 C. oil bath. After 16 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was passed through a short column of silica gel 4 1 hexanes EtOAc . The crude product was then purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 70 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 340 mg 46 of 12 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.37 7.27 m 6H 7.22 m 1H 7.04 m 1H 6.96 6.88 m 1H 6.81 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.27 5.13 m 2H 5.01 dd J 3.3 6.3 Hz 0.5H 4.77 d J 2.7 Hz 0.5H 4.57 4.45 m 1H 4.43 4.32 m 1H 3.99 3.89 m 1H 3.85 3.73 m 1H 3.37 m 1H 3.21 dt J 5.7 11.7 Hz 1H 2.38 m 0.5H 2.23 dd J 5.7 13.2 Hz 0.5H 1.91 1.83 m 1H 1.47 m 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 339.2 M Boc .

3 Phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 13 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with crude 12 370 mg 0.84 mmol and 5 Pd on carbon 50 mg in reagent grade MeOH 10 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 1 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with MeOH and EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford 256 mg quant. of 13 which was used without further purification.

4 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 3 methyl butyryl 3 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 14 To a solution containing Cbz Val OH 233 mg 0.92 mmol and crude 13 256 mg 0.84 mmol in anhydrous NMP 3 mL was cooled to 0 C. HATU 352 mg 0.93 mmol and DIPEA 125 mg 1.01 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and EtOAc 1 4 and washed successively with 1M HCl aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 4 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 410 mg 90 of 14 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.31 m 9H 6.96 m 1H 5.79 m 1H . 5.07 m 2H 4.91 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 4.51 4.43 m 2H 4.35 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 4.07 3.99 m 2H 3.90 app d J 26.4 Hz 0.5H 3.77 app d J 27.3 Hz 0.5H 3.31 m 2H 2.49 m 0.5H 2.35 m 0.5H 1.92 m 1H 1.51 m 9H 0.95 m 6H ppm.

4 2 Amino 3 methyl butyryl 3 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 15 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with crude 14 410 mg 0.76 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon 50 mg in reagent grade MeOH 10 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 2 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with MeOH and EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford 307 mg quant. of 15 which was used without further purification.

4 2 2 Benzyloxycarbonyl methyl amino propionylamino 3 methyl butyryl 3 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 16 . To a solution containing Cbz N Me Ala OH 196 mg 0.83 mmol and crude 15 307 mg 0.76 mmol in anhydrous NMP 3 mL was cooled to 0 C. HATU 315 mg 0.83 mmol and DIPEA 118 mg 0.91 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and EtOAc 1 4 and washed successively with 1M HCl aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 420 mg 88 of crude 16 which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of rotomers 7.37 7.25 m 9H 6.96 m 1H 6.69 br s 1H 5.19 m 2H 4.91 m 1H 4.81 m 1H 4.58 4.46 m 2H 4.04 m 2H 3.97 app d J 12.6 Hz 0.5H 3.84 app d J 12.6 Hz 0.5H 3.40 3.25 m 2H 2.88 s 3H 2.48 dd J 5.7 13.5 Hz 0.5H 2.33 dd J 5.4 12.9 Hz 0.5H 2.06 1.82 m 2H 1.51 s 4.5H 1.49 s 4.5H 1.36 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.91 dd J 2.7 6.6 Hz 3H 0.83 dd J 1.8 6.9 Hz 3H ppm.

4 3 Methyl 2 2 methylamino propionylamino butyryl 3 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 17 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with crude 16 50 mg 0.08 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon 50 mg in reagent grade MeOH 3 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 2 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with MeOH and EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 70 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 20 mg 51 of 17 after lyophilization.

Methyl 1 2 methyl 1 6 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 18 To a solution containing 16 370 mg 0.59 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added TFA 4 mL at 0 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and the resultant organic solution was washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 18 which was used without further purification.

N 1 4 Acetyl 6 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 methyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 19 A solution containing 18 150 mg 0.28 mmol in DCM 3 mL was cooled to 0 C. TEA 57 mg 0.57 mmol and AcO 34 mg 0.36 mmol were added followed by the addition of DMAP 4 mg 0.03 mmol . After 30 min the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude acetamide which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 565 M H .

A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with the crude acetamide 0.28 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon 50 mg in reagent grade MeOH 5 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 90 min. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with MeOH and EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 70 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 77 mg 62 of 19 after lyophilization.

N 1 4 Methanesulfonyl 6 phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 methyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 20 A solution containing 18 150 mg 0.28 mmol in DCM 3 mL was cooled to 0 C. DIPEA 74 mg 0.57 mmol and DMAP 4 mg 0.03 mmol were added followed by the addition of MsCl 36 mg 0.32 mmol . After 1 h the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the crude sulfonamide which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 601 M H .

A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with the crude sulfonamide 0.28 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon 50 mg in reagent grade MeOH 5 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 1 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration through Celite and the solids were washed with MeOH and EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 70 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 92 mg 68 of 20 after lyophilization.

EXAMPLES 4 through 14 were prepared using the chemistries described in Schemes XI through XIX by replacing phenol with 2 phenylphenol 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro naphthalen 1 ol 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro naphthalen 2 ol naphthalen 1 ol naphthalen 2 ol 4 fluorophenol and 3 4 difluorophenol and or Boc Val OH with Boc Chg OH Boc Tle OH and Boc Thr Me OH.

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 21 To a stirred solution of bicyclic alcohol 11 300 mg 0.83 mmol in benzene 5 mL at ambient temperature was added PhP 440 mg 1.66 mmol and 3 4 difluorophenol 215 mg 1.66 mmol . Neat DIAD 350 L 1.66 mmol was added dropwise via syringe over 1 min which was slightly exothermic and resulted in an increase of the solution temperature to 40 C. The flask was placed in a preheated 70 C. oil bath and stirred for 1 h. TLC analysis 1 1 hexanes EtOAc indicated the complete consumption of starting material and conversion to product which has the same Ras the phenol and the elimination side product in this TLC system. The reaction was diluted with hexanes and applied directly to a silica column for flash silica gel chromatography 1 1 hexanes EtOAc . The desired product was only partially purified and 600 mg of yellow oil was obtained that contained a mixture of DIAD reduced DIAD and a small amount of the side product derived from elimination of the hydroxyl group in 10. A more sophisticated TLC analysis 4 1 toluene EtO eluted 2 provided clean separation of these compounds for analysis. However the crude material was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 50 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 25 min Flow 40 mL min . After concentrating the product containing fractions in vacuo the residue was dissolved in EtO and washed successively with NaHCO water and brine. The organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 260 mg 69 of 21 as a light yellow colored oil. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl mixture of rotomers 7.36 m 5H 7.16 7.00 m 2H 6.72 m 0.7H 6.50 m 0.3H 5.30 5.13 m 2H 4.90 m 0.6H 4.64 m 0.4H 4.54 4.48 m 1H 4.38 4.30 m 1H 3.98 3.74 m 2H 3.44 3.31 m 1H 3.20 dt J 11.3 6.0 Hz 1H 2.40 m 0.5H 2.24 m 0.5H 1.88 m 1H 1.48 s 9H ppm C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 155.0 154.2 153.4 152.3 136.3 128.9 128.6 128.3 128.0 117.5 117.3 110.8 105.8 105.6 105.3 80.3 79.2 78.8 67.8 67.3 65.7 65.4 64.8 64.4 61.7 60.7 51.8 51.5 51.4 51.0 45.8 45.6 45.2 45.0 31.7 31.5 31.1 30.4 30.1 28.6 28.5 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 375.2 M Boc .

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 22 A mixture of compound 21 3.8 g 8.0 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 500 mg in MeOH EtOAc 1 1 100 mL was pressurized to 50 PSI Hand shaken for 3 h using a Parr apparatus. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and the solids were washed with EtOAc. The clarified filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 22 2.8 g 100 . The crude product was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 341.1 M H .

4 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 23 To a solution containing Cbz Tle OH.DCHA salt 4.1 g 9.0 mmol and HATU 3.8 g 10 mmol in NMP 50 mL was added NMM 1.5 mL followed by a solution of crude 22 2.6 g 7.5 mmol in NMP 50 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with 10 EtOAc in EtO washed successively with water 1N HCl 1N NaOH and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 3.5 g of 23 as white foam. Mass spectrum m z 688.3 M H .

1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 24 The Boc containing compound 23 1.0 g 1.70 mmol was dissolved in DCM 4 mL and cooled to 0 C. before TFA 2 mL was added and the reaction stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. TLC analysis 10 1 DCM MeOH indicated the starting material had all been consumed and the product had formed. The reaction mixture was concentrated at low pressure on the rotary evaporator. The crude residue was dissolved in DCM and washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 845 mg of 24 as a white foam. Mass spectrum m z 488.3 M H .

1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 25 Secondary amine 24 200 mg 0.41 mmol was dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 4 mL at ambient temperature and tetrahydro 4H pyran 4 one 84 L 0.90 mmol HOAc 50 L 0.82 mmol and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 172 mg 0.78 mmol were added. After 12 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude orange mixture was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 25 min Flow 40 mL min to give 100 mg of 24 and 90 mg of 25 as a colorless oil. Mass spectrum m z 572.0 M H .

2 Amino 1 6 3 4 difluoro phenoxy 4 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrol 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl butan 1 one 26 A mixture of carbamate 25 170 mg 0.30 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 100 mg 0.09 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was stirred vigorously under 1 atm Hfor 2.5 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford 125 mg 96 of 26 as an oil which was carried on without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 437.9 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 27 HATU 126 mg 0.33 mmol and Cbz N Me Ala OH 79 mg 0.33 mmol were dissolved in NMP 0.5 mL and DIPEA 70 L 0.39 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 26 125 mg 0.30 mmol in NMP 2 mL was added. The reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature. After 12 h the reaction mixture was quenched with 1N NaOH 0.5 mL and diluted with water. The product was extracted with 10 1 EtO EtOAc and the combined organic extracts were washed successively with water saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 160 mg of 27 as a beige colored foam that was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 657.2 M H .

N 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 28 The Cbz protected intermediate 27 160 mg 0.24 mmol was stirred vigorously with 10 Pd on carbon wet 100 mg 0.09 mmol in MeOH 20 mL under 1 atm H. After 4 h the catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 55 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 20 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 70 mg of 28 45 3 steps as a flocculent white solid following lyophilization.

EXAMPLES 16 and 17 were prepared using the chemistries described in Schemes XXIV through XXVII by replacing tetrahydro pyran 4 one with acetaldehyde and cyclopentanone.

1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 pyrimidin 2 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 29 Secondary amine 24 200 mg 0.41 mmol DIPEA 110 L 0.62 mmol and 2 chloro pyrimidine 62 mg 0.53 mmol were dissolved in DMF 4 mL and stirred at 80 C. After 12 h the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 1 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 140 mg 60 of 29 as a colorless oil. Mass spectrum m z 566.0 M H .

2 Amino 1 6 3 4 difluoro phenoxy 4 pyrimidin 2 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrol 1 yl 3 3 dimethyl butan 1 one 30 A mixture of carbamate 29 140 mg 0.25 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 100 mg 0.09 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was stirred vigorously under 1 atm H. After 3 h the catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford 106 mg 100 of 30 as a white solid which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 431.8 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 tetrahydro pyran 4 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 31 HATU 105 mg 0.28 mmol and Cbz N Me Ala OH 65 mg 0.28 mmol were dissolved in NMP 0.5 mL and DIPEA 65 L 0.36 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of 30 106 mg 0.25 mmol in NMP 2 mL was added. The reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature. After 12 h the reaction mixture was quenched with 1N NaOH 0.5 mL and diluted with water extracted with 10 1 EtO EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with water saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 180 mg 100 of 31 as a beige colored foam which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 651.2 M H .

N 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 pyrimidin 2 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 32 The Cbz protected intermediate 31 180 mg 0.27 mmol was stirred vigorously with 10 Pd on carbon wet 100 mg 0.09 mmol in MeOH 20 mL under 1 atm H. After 4 h the catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 55 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 20 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 45 mg of 32 32 3 steps as a flocculent white solid following lyophilization.

4 2 Amino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 33 A mixture of compound 23 2.4 g 4.1 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 500 mg in MeOH EtOAc 1 1 100 mL was pressurized to 50 PSI Hand shaken for 3 h using a Parr apparatus. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and the solids were washed with EtOAc. The clarified filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 33 as a white solid 1.84 g 100 . The crude product was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 454.2 M H .

4 2 2 Benzyloxycarbonyl methyl amino propionylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 34 To a solution Cbz N Me Ala OH 1.2 g 4.8 mmol and HATU 2.0 g 5.3 mmol in NMP 30 mL was added NMM 0.7 mL followed by a solution of compound 33 1.8 g 4.0 mmol crude in NMP 30 mL at ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with 10 EtOAc in EtO washed successively with water 1N HCl 1N NaOH and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 2.4 g of compound 34 as white solid. Mass spectrum m z 673.0 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 35 The Boc containing compound 34 2.0 g 3.0 mmol was dissolved in DCM 30 mL and cooled to 0 C. TFA 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature. After 2 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine. The organic extract was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 1.75 g of compound 35 as a white solid. Mass spectrum m z 573.1 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 methanesulfonyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 36 A solution containing 35 228 mg 0.4 mmol DIPEA 104 mg 0.8 mmol and DMAP cat in DCM 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. Methanesulfonyl chloride 55 mg 0.48 mmol was added. After 1 h the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature diluted with DCM washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 1N HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford compound 36 190 mg as a white solid. Mass spectrum m z 651.1 M H .

N 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 methanesulfonyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 37 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with the sulfonamide 36 190 mg 0.29 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 50 mg in MeOH 15 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 3 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 140 mg of compound 37 as a white solid following lyophilization.

EXAMPLE 20 was prepared using the chemistries described in Schemes XXXV and XXXVI by replacing methanesulfonyl chloride with 2 methyl propane 1 sulfonyl chloride.

 1 1 4 Acetyl 6 3 4 difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 38 A solution containing 35 228 mg 0.4 mmol DIPEA 104 mg 0.8 mmol and DMAP cat in DCM 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. followed by the addition of AcO 50 mg 0.48 mmol . After 1 h the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature diluted with DCM washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 1N HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 38 which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 615.1 M H .

N 1 4 Acetyl 6 3 4 difluoro phenoxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl 2 methylamino propionamide 39 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with the crude 38 and 10 Pd on carbon wet 50 mg in 1 1 MeOH EtOAc 20 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI Hthen shaken for 3 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 135 mg of 39 as a white solid following lyophilization.

EXAMPLE 22 was prepared using the chemistries described in Schemes XXXVII and XXXVIII by replacing acetyl chloride with 3 methyl butyryl chloride.

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 methylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 40 A solution containing 35 228 mg 0.4 mmol DIPEA 104 mg 0.8 mmol in DCM 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. Methyl isocyanate 35 mg 0.6 mmol was added. After 3 h the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature diluted with DCM washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO 1N HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford the crude 40 230 mg which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 630.1 M H .

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxy 4 3 3 dimethyl 2 2 methylamino propionylamino butyryl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid methylamide 41 A 500 mL Parr bottle was charged with the crude 40 and 10 Pd on carbon wet 50 mg in 1 1 MeOH EtOAc 20 mL . The mixture was pressurized to 50 PSI H and shaken for 3 h. The catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 100 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 160 mg of 41 as a white solid following lyophilization.

EXAMPLES 24 through 29 were prepared using the chemistries described in Schemes XX XXI XXII XXXII XXXIII XXXIV XXXIX and XL by replacing methyl isocyanate with isopropyl isocyanate and dimethylcarbamyl chloride and or Cbz Tle OH with Cbz Chg OH and or 3 4 difluorophenol with 4 fluorophenol.

3 4 Nitro benzoyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 42 To a solution of bicyclic alcohol 11 4.0 g 11.0 mmol in benzene 55 mL at ambient temperature was added PhP 5.8 mg 22.1 mmol and p nitrobenzoic acid 3.7 g 22.1 mmol . DIAD 4.6 mL 22.1 mmol was added dropwise via syringe over 1 h keeping the temperature below 25 C. After 12 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 3 1 to 1 1 hexanes EtOAc . The partially purified product 42 was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 511.9 M H .

3 Hydroxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 43 The crude ester 42 11.7 g crude 11.0 mmol was dissolved in 1 1 THF MeOH 75 mL and cooled to 0 C. and 1M NaOH 45 mL was added in one portion. After 45 min the reaction mixture was quenched with glacial HOAc 10 mL and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and the organic solution was washed successively with aqueous NaHCO 5 and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was absorbed onto silica gel and purified by flash silica gel chromatography 2 1 to 1 2 hexanes EtOAc to provide 43 as a white foam 3.5 g 88 2 steps H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.39 m 5H 5.15 m 2H 4.40 m 2H 4.13 m 1H 3.54 m 3H 3.35 m 1H 2.83 m 1H 2.11 m 2H 1.49 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 306.6 M t Bu .

3 4 Fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 4 benzyl ester 1 tert butyl ester 44 Bicyclic alcohol 43 4.2 g 11.59 mmol and 4 fluoro benzyl bromide 2.2 mL 17.4 mmol were dissolved in DMF 115 mL and cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 930 mg 23.2 mmol was added and after 5 min the ice bath was removed. After 15 min the reaction mixture was diluted with toluene 250 mL and saturated aqueous NHCl 500 mL and extracted with 1 1 EtO hexanes 600 mL . The organic layer was washed successively with 1N HCl water saturated aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 10 1 to 1 1 hexanes EtOAc to afford 5.15 g of 44 as a viscous oil 94 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.36 m 6H 7.07 6.92 m 3H 5.15 m 2H 4.63 m 1H 4.50 m 1H 4.32 m 1H 4.19 m 1H 3.97 m 1H 3.87 3.64 m 2H 3.25 3.08 m 2H 2.35 m 0.5H 2.17 m 0.5H 1.88 m 1H 1.46 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 414.7 M t Bu .

3 4 Fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 45 To a solution of 44 3.40 g 7.22 mmol in MeOH 70 mL was added NHOAc 280 mg 3.61 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 770 mg 0.70 mmol . The reaction flask was evacuated and backfilled with hydrogen 4 and then maintained under a balloon of hydrogen gas. After 90 min the catalyst was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtO and washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 3.0 g of 45 as a colorless oil which was used in the next step without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 336.7 M H .

4 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 4 fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 46 A solution of Cbz Tle OH dicyclohexylamine salt 3.55 g 7.94 mmol HATU 3.03 g 7.94 mmol and DIPEA 1.65 mL 9.38 mmol in NMP 25 mL was cooled to 0 C. and bicyclic amine 45 7.22 mmol in NMP 50 mL was added. The solution was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 10 h the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 1N NaOH was added 10 mL and the solution was stirred for 10 min before further diluting with water 200 mL . The aqueous mixture was extracted with 10 1 EtO EtOAc 750 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed successively with water 1N HCl 10 HPO water aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 4.2 g 98 2 steps of 46 as a white foam that was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 584.1 M H .

4 2 Amino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 4 fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 47 A solution containing 46 4.10 g 7.02 mmol and NHOAc 275 mg 3.50 mmol in MeOH 70 mL was treated with 10 Pd on carbon wet 745 mg 0.70 mmol and the stirred mixture was purged with hydrogen. After 3 h stirring under a balloon of hydrogen TLC analysis 1 1 hexanes EtOAc indicated the reaction was complete. The catalyst was removed by filtration and the solvent was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtO and washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide 3.30 g of 47 as colorless oil which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 449.9 M H .

4 2 2 Benzyloxycarbonyl methyl amino propionylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 4 fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 48 A stirred solution of Cbz N Me Ala OH 7.85 g 7.70 mmol HATU 2.95 g 7.70 mmol and DIPEA 1.60 mL 9.10 mmol in NMP 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. and amine 47 7.02 mmol in NMP 20 mL was added. The solution was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 13 h the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 1N NaOH 10 mL was added. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtO. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with water 1N HCl 10 HPO water NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 4.5 g 96 2 steps of 48 as a white foam which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 691.2 M Na .

 1 1 6 4 Fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 49 A solution containing 48 4.0 g 5.98 mmol in DCM 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. and TFA 10 mL was added. After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The organic solution was washed successively with aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 3.3 g of 49 as a beige colored foam which was used directly in the next reaction. Mass spectrum m z 569.1 M Na .

 1 1 4 Benzylcarbamoyl 6 4 fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 50 Bicyclic amine 49 300 mg 0.53 mmol and TEA 150 L were dissolved in DCM 5 mL at ambient temperature and benzyl isocyanate 135 L 1.06 mmol was added. After 3 h MeOH 20 mL and 30 NHOH 1 mL were added and the solution was stirred for 15 min before being concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc and washed successively with 1N HCl water aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 450 mg of 50 as an amorphous solid which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 702.3 M Na .

4 3 3 Dimethyl 2 2 methylamino propionylamino butyryl 3 4 fluoro benzyloxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzylamide 51 A solution containing 50 0.53 mmol and NHOAc 25 mg 0.27 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was treated with 10 Pd on carbon wet 60 mg 0.05 mmol and the stirred mixture was purged with hydrogen. After 1 h stirring under a balloon of hydrogen TLC analysis 10 1 DCM MeOH indicated the reaction was complete. The catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 60 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 25 min Flow 40 mL min . Fractions containing pure product were combined frozen and lyophilized to provide 251 mg 84 2 steps of 51 as a floculent white powder.

EXAMPLES 31 through 45 were prepared using the general chemistries described in Schemes XXIV XXVII XXVIII XXXI XXXV XXXVI XXXVII XXXVIII XXXIX XL and XLIV L by replacing 4 fluoro benzyl bromide with benzyl bromide and or Boc Tle OH with Cbz Tle OH Boc Chg OH or Cbz Chg OH and or Boc N Me Ala OH with Cbz N Me Ala OH Boc N Me Ala F OH or Cbz N Me Ala F OH See Hoveyda H. R. Pinault J. F. 2006 8 5849 5852 and or benzyl isocyanate with methyl isocyanate isopropyl isocyanate dimethylcarbamyl chloride 2 methyl propane 1 sulfonyl chloride methanesulfonyl chloride acetyl chloride 3 methyl butyryl chloride 2 oxo propionyl chloride tetrahydro 4H pyran 4 one cyclopentanone and 2 chloropyrimidine.

6 Hydroxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester hydrochloride salt 52 To a solution of bicyclic alcohol 43 6.5 g 17.9 mmol in DCM 20 mL at 0 C. was added 4N HCl 1 4 dioxane 20 mL 80 mmol and the reaction mixture was slowly warming to ambient temperature. After 90 min an additional portion of 4N HCl 1 4 dioxane 20 mL was added. After 3 h the reaction mixture was diluted with toluene and concentrated in vacuo. The crude 52 HCl salt was used in the next step without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 262.5 M H .

6 Hydroxy 4 isopropylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 53 A suspension of the crude 52.HCl salt 5.3 g 17.9 mmol and EtN 7.5 mL 54 mmol in DCM 200 mL was stirred at 0 C. Isopropyl isocyanate 1.8 mL 17.9 mmol was added dropwise over 2 min. After 30 min aqueous NHOH 30 10 mL and MeOH 100 mL were added and the solution was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between DCM and 1N HCl the organic layer was separated and dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 53 as a beige colored foam 6.5 g which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 347.7 M H .

3 Hydroxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid isopropylamide 54 A mixture containing crude 53 6.2 g 17.9 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 1.9 g 1.8 mmol in MeOH 200 mL was stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of H. After 3 h the catalyst was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to afford 4.5 g of 54 as a colorless oil which was used without further purification.

 1 6 Hydroxy 4 isopropylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 55 A solution containing crude 54 3.8 g 17.9 mmol and DIPEA 4.1 mL 23.3 mmol in NMP 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. In a separate flask Cbz Tle OH dicyclohexylamine salt 8.8 g 19.7 mmol HATU 7.5 g 19.7 mmol and DIPEA 4.1 mL 23.3 mmol were dissolved in NMP 130 mL at 0 C. A portion of the HATU Cbz Tle OH solution 117 mL 1.0 equiv was added to the solution containing 54. After 30 min the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with 1 1 EtO EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with 10 HPO water saturated aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 7.2 g of 55 as a beige colored foam 88 4 steps which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 460.9 M H .

4 2 Amino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 hydroxy hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid isopropylamide 56 A mixture containing 55 7.2 g 15.6 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 1.7 g 1.5 mmol in MeOH 200 mL were stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of H. After 2 h the was removed by filtration and the filtrate was diluted with toluene and concentrated in vacuo to afford 6.1 g of 56 as an off white colored foam which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 326.7 M H .

1 1 6 Hydroxy 4 isopropylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 57 A solution containing 56 5.10 g 15.6 mmol and DIPEA 3.6 mL 20.3 mmol in NMP 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. In a separate flask at 0 C. Cbz N Me Ala OH 4.1 g 17.2 mmol HATU 6.6 g 17.2 mmol and DIPEA 3.6 mL 20.3 mmol were dissolved in NMP 80 mL . A portion of the HATU Cbz N Me Ala OH solution 72 mL 1.0 equiv was then added to the cooled solution of 56. After 45 min the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with 10 HPO water saturated aqueous NaHCO water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 7.0 g 82 2 steps of 57 as a white foam. Mass spectrum m z 546.0 M H .

1 1 6 Benzylcarbamoyloxy 4 isopropylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid benzyl ester 58 A solution containing 57 280 mg 0.51 mmol and benzyl isocyanate 350 L 2.83 mmol in acetonitrile 500 L was warmed to reflux. After 12 h the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with MeOH and treated with aqueous NHOH 30 5 mL . The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc washed successively with 1N HCl water aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 50 100 MeOH water containing 0.1 HOAc over 20 min Flow 40 mL min . The pure fractions were combined and concentrated to afford 58 as a white solid 250 mg 72 . Mass spectrum m z 679.3 M H .

Benzyl carbamic acid 4 3 3 dimethyl 2 2 methylamino propionylamino butyryl 1 isopropylcarbamoyl octahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrol 3 yl ester 59 A mixture of 58 250 mg 0.37 mmol and 10 Pd on carbon wet 100 mg 0.10 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of H. After 3.5 h the catalyst was removed by filtration with an Acrodisc 0.45 m nylon membrane syringe filter and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 20 80 MeOH water containing 0.1 HOAc over 25 min Flow 40 mL min . The product containing fractions were combined and lyophilized to provide 59 130 mg 65 as a flocculent white powder.

EXAMPLES 47 through 61 were prepared using the general chemistries described in Schemes LVII and LVIII by replacing benzyl isocyanate with phenyl isocyanate N N diphenylcarbamoyl chloride 1 naphthyl isocyanate N methyl N phenylcarbamoyl chloride 2 naphthyl isocyanate ethyl isocyanate n propyl isocyanate isopropyl isocyanate tert butyl isocyanate cyclopentyl isocyanate cyclohexyl isocyanate 1 pyrrolidinecarbonyl chloride 1 piperidinecarbonyl chloride and 4 morpholinecarbonyl chloride.

3 Hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 61 A solution containing 3 hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 60 16 g 71 mmol. See Hodges J. A. Raines R. T. 2005 45 15923 in DMF 100 mL was cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added KCO 16 g 116 mmol followed by iodomethane 5.4 mL 87 mmol . The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature over 1 h at which time it became a yellow heterogeneous solution. This mixture was heated at 90 C. for 1 h and then cooled to ambient temperature. The solution was diluted with brine extracted with diethyl ether dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 14.8 g 87 of 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 61 as a yellow oil See Demange L. Cluzeau J. Menez A. Dugave C. 2001 42 651 .

3 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 62 A solution containing 3 hydroxypyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 61 14.8 g 60 mmol in DCM 150 mL was cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added imidazole 5.4 g 79 mmol followed by t butyl dimethylsilyl chloride 10 g 66 mmol in two portions. The reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature over 1 h. After 5 h the reaction mixture was diluted with 1M HCl and extracted twice with DCM. The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 21.2 g 99 of 3 tert butyldimethylsilanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 62 as a yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.38 4.34 m 1H 4.18 br s rotomers 0.5H 4.04 app d J 2.1 Hz rotomers 0.5H 3.74 s 3H 3.62 3.50 m 2H 2.04 1.96 m 1H 1.85 1.78 m 1H 1.46 s minor rotomer 1.41 s 9H 0.92 s minor rotomer 0.86 s 9H 0.11 s 6H 0.09 s minor rotomer ppm.

3 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 63 A solution containing 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 tert butyl ester 2 methyl ester 62 12 g 33 mmol in THF 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. LiBHin THF 2M 20 mL was added in a dropwise fashion. After 1 h the solution was warmed to ambient temperature. After 2 h the solution was diluted with MeOH then HO and concentrated. The residue was extracted with EtOAc washed with 1M HCl saturated aqueous NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 9.5 g 87 of 3 tert Butyldimethylsilanyloxy 2 hydroxymethylpyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 63 as a colorless oil See Herdeis C. Hubmann H. P. Lotter H. 1994 5 119 .

3S tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2R 2 nitro vinyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 64 To a stirred solution containing alcohol 63 5.7 g 17.2 mmol in DCM 60 mL was added at ambient temperature EtN 14 mL 103 mmol and DMSO 50 mL . The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and a solution of SO.pyridine 11.0 g 69 mmol in DMSO 50 mL was added in a dropwise fashion. After 1 h the reaction was warmed to ambient temperature. After 1 h the reaction mixture was poured onto a 30 citric acid ice mixture. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 3 250 mL and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine 400 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 5.6 g 99 of crude N Boc 3S OTBS 2R prolinal as a yellow colored oil.

To a stirred solution containing crude N Boc 3S OTBS 2R prolinal 5.6 g 17 mmol in nitromethane 30 mL was added EtN 1.5 mL . After 12 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford 6.6 g 99 of the intermediate carbinol as a yellow colored oil.

To a solution containing crude carbinol 6.6 g 17 mmol at 78 C. in DCM 30 mL was added thionyl chloride 2.60 g 21.9 mmol in CHCl 15 mL . After 1 h TEA 6.96 mL 68.8 mmol was added and after an additional 1 h at 78 C. the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 15 mL HO 20 mL and saturated aqueous NaHCO 20 mL followed by warming to 0 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and extracted with EtOAc 3 200 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 300 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 6.1 g 98 of 64 as an orange colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.04 dd J 13.2 6.5 Hz 1H 6.91 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 4.08 m 1H 3.54 m 2H 3.37 m 1H 1.80 m 2H 1.35 d J 13.2 Hz 6H 0.80 s 9H 0.00 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z calcd for CHNOSi M H 272.53. Found 272.84.

3S tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2R 1S 6 F indol 3 yl 2 nitro ethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 65 and 3S tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2R 1R 6 F indol 3 yl 2 nitro ethyl pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 66 See Bartoli G. et al. 2005 70 1941 A 1 L round bottomed flask was charged with CeCl.7HO 10.3 g 27.7 mmol NaI 4.2 g 27.7 mmol and reagent grade MeOH 200 mL . To the clear water white solution was added silica gel Fisher Grade 60 230 400 mesh 45 g and the white heterogeneous mixture was concentrated in vacuo rotovap bath temp 40 C. . To the white free flowing CeCl NaI SiOwas added 64 25.8 g 69.2 mmol and 6 F indole 11.2 g 83.1 mmol in anhydrous ACN 160 mL and the pale orange mixture was concentrated under high vacuum bath temp 40 C. . The orange brown solid was allowed to stand at ambient temperature. After 16 h the solid residue was poured atop a short column of silica gel and the products were eluted 20 EtOAc hexanes to 40 EtOAc hexanes . The diastereomers were separated by normal phase HPLC 2 Dynamax SiO 10 50 EtOAc hexanes over 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford 12 g 34 of isomer 65 and 10 g 28 of isomer 66 together with some recovered 64 TLC analysis SiO 4 1 hexanes EtOAc R 64 0.6 R 65 0.48 R 66 0.45 .

65 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 3 2 mixture of carbamate rotomers 8.86 br s 0.4H minor rotomer 8.83 br s 0.6H major rotomer 8.15 dd J 5.1 8.7 Hz 0.6H major rotomer 8.04 dd J 5.4 9.0 Hz 0.4H minor rotomer 7.55 d J 2.4 Hz 0.6H major rotomer 7.53 br s 1H 7.50 d J 2.1 Hz 0.4H minor rotomer 7.40 app t J 8.7 Hz 0.6H major rotomer 7.39 app t J 9.3 Hz 0.4H minor rotomer 5.74 5.35 m 1H 5.29 5.20 m 1H 4.68 app t J 11.4 Hz 1H 4.43 m 1H 4.24 3.95 m 2H 3.82 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 2.61 m 1H 2.28 m 1H 2.08 s 3H minor rotomer 1.99 s 6H major rotomer 1.14 s 9H 0.10 s 1H minor rotomer 0.09 s 2H major rotomer 0.01 s 2H major rotomer 0.00 s 1H minor rotomer ppm C NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3 2 mixture of carbamate rotomers 171.2 161.3 157.5 d J 102.4 Hz 157.1 d J 164.2 Hz 136.7 d J 11.1 Hz 136.5 d J 12.3 Hz 123.3 d J 18.3 Hz 122.3 d J 18.9 Hz 119.3 d J 30.9 Hz 111.3 d J 37.2 Hz 108.3 d J 25.5 Hz 98.1 d J 23.1 Hz 97.8 d J 24.6 Hz 80.8 79.4 74.2 73.8 68.9 68.8 60.3 45.2 44.9 40.4 39.9 32.0 31.1 28.3 28.2 25.2 20.7 17.5 13.9 5.6 5.7 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 408.2 M Boc .

66 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 3 2 mixture of carbamate rotomers 9.03 br s 0.4H minor rotomer 8.92 br s 0.6H major rotomer 8.03 m 1H 7.52 7.44 m 2H 7.36 app t J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.42 5.19 m 2H 4.79 m 1H 4.63 m 2H 4.07 3.86 m 1H 3.63 3.46 m 1H 2.06 s 3H minor rotomer 1.99 s 6H major rotomer 1.95 m 1H 1.65 m 1H 1.27 s 6H major rotomer 1.20 s 3H minor rotomer 0.38 0.25 m 6H ppm C NMR 300 MHz CDCl 3 2 mixture of carbamate rotomers 171.4 161.5 157.3 d J 151.9 Hz 157.1 d J 186.9 Hz 136.2 d J 12.3 Hz 123.2 122.5 d J 24.9 Hz 119.5 d J 36.0 Hz 110.8 108.5 d J 24.3 Hz 97.8 d J 28.9 Hz 81.2 79.9 78.0 75.1 68.8 60.4 46.3 38.8 37.9 33.2 32.5 28.4 25.5 25.4 20.9 17.7 14.1 5.1 5.4 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 408.2 M Boc .

2R 2 Amino 1S 6 F indol 3 yl ethyl 3S tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 67 . A Parr bottle was charged with 66 12 g 23.7 mmol and Raney Ni 20 mL 2400 Ni slurry in HO in EtOH 120 mL and subjected to 50 PSI Hpressure 379.2 KPa . Rapid absorption of Hwas observed and the reaction was twice recharged to 50 PSI H 379.2 KPa . After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth Celite and the solids were washed with EtOH. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc washed with saturated NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 67 10.7 95 as a yellow foam. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of carbamate rotomers 9.30 br s 0.5H 9.07 br s 0.5H 7.86 7.75 m 1H 7.24 app t J 6.6 Hz 1H 7.15 s 1H 7.08 ap t J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.38 4.30 m 3H 3.86 3.61 m 2H 3.44 3.28 m 3H 1.71 s 9H 0.96 s 9H 0.06 s 3H 0.001 s 3H ppm C NMR CDCl 75 MHz mixture of carbamate rotomers 166.5 163.4 161.3 J 13.5 Hz 141.7 J 12.1 Hz 129.4 127.6 127.3 125.1 J 10.4 Hz 124.8 J 10.4 Hz 119.1 118.5 113.2 112.9 102.8 J 17.6 Hz 102.5 J 16.6 Hz 85.1 84.4 80.4 80.1 74.7 74.1 51.4 51.1 48.5 38.5 37.7 33.6 30.7 22.9 0.09 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 478.3 M H .

2R 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 1S 6 fluoro 1H indol 3 yl ethyl 3S tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 68 To a solution of DCM 10 mL containing crude 67 10.7 g 22.4 mmol at 0 C. was added TEA 4.8 mL 34.5 mmol followed by Cbz Cl 3.5 mL 25 mmol . After 1 h the reaction was warmed to room temperature. After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1N HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 68 13.5 g 98 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.73 br s 1H 7.57 app q J 5.1 Hz 1H 7.48 7.32 m 5H 7.10 m 1H 6.91 m 1H 6.45 br s 1H 5.20 s 2H 4.24 4.09 m 2H 3.65 3.40 m 4H 3.02 app t J 9.6 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H 0.87 s 9H 0.00 s 6H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 612.4 M H .

2R 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 1S 6 fluoro 1H indol 3 yl ethyl 3S hydroxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 69 A solution of 68 13.5 g 22.0 mmol in THF 60 mL was treated with TBAF 45 mL 1M in THF 45 mmol at ambient temperature. After 5 h the reaction mixture was warmed for 1 h at 45 C. and then diluted with EtOAc washed successively with 1N HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 10 which was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 1 2 hexanes EtOAc to afford 10.1 g 93 of 69 as light peach colored foam. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.88 s 1H 7.40 7.31 m 5H 6.94 app d J 9.6 Hz 1H 6.81 6.75 m 1H 6.67 s 1H 6.45 m 1H 5.12 app q J 11.7 Hz 2H 4.18 4.03 m 2H 3.51 3.34 m 4H 2.92 app t J 9.9 Hz 1H 2.33 br s 1H 1.48 s 9H 0.91 0.86 m 1H ppm C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 158.5 157.2 157.0 136.9 136.5 136.3 128.7 128.3 123.7 122.8 120.6 113.6 108.7 108.4 98.0 97.7 80.1 75.7 67.3 66.9 46.5 43.4 41.1 32.3 28.7 ppm. Mass spectrum m z 498.2 M H .

2R 2 Benzyloxycarbonylamino 1S 6 fluoro 1H indol 3 yl ethyl 3S methanesulfonyloxy pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 70 A solution of 69 10.0 g 20.1 mmol in DCM 100 mL was cooled to 0 C. A solution of MsCl 1.5 mL 19.4 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added dropwise followed by the addition of DMAP 250 mg 2.0 mmol . After 3 h at 0 C. the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1N HCl water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 70 10.4 g 90 as a light peach colored foam. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.71 s 1H 7.50 app q J 5.4 Hz 1H 7.38 7.32 m 5H 7.00 app d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.89 6.81 m 2H 6.29 br s 1H 5.14 s 2H 4.92 app d J 3.9 Hz 1H 4.52 s 1H 3.55 3.39 m 4H 3.04 app t J 9.9 Hz 1H 2.79 s 3H 1.82 app q J 7.5 Hz 1H 1.52 s 9H 1.14 m 1H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 576.3 M H .

 3aR 6aR 6S 6 fluoro 1H Indol 3 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 71 A solution of 70 10.4 g 18 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added to a suspension of NaH 1.9 g 60 46 mmol in DMF 100 mL at 0 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with HO extracted with diethyl ether washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 71 8.3 g 97 as a light tan colored solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz mixture of carbamate rotomers 8.25 br s 0.5H 8.16 s 0.5H 8.04 dd J 8.4 14.1 Hz 0.5H 7.95 dd J 7.8 13.5 Hz 0.5H 7.71 m 0.5H 7.64 m 0.5H 7.34 m 4H 6.99 app t J 13.2 Hz 1H 6.91 6.84 m 1H 6.81 6.76 m 0.5H 6.68 6.61 m 0.5H 5.24 5.15 m 2H 4.46 4.31 m 2H 4.20 4.02 m 1H 3.96 m 1H 3.84 3.68 m 1H 3.63 app q J 5.7 Hz 1H 3.25 m 1H 2.31 dd J 6.0 13.5 Hz 0.5H 2.14 dd J 5.7 13.5 Hz 0.5H 1.94 1.84 m 1H 1.52 s 7H 1.31 1.26 m 2H 0.91 0.83 m 2H ppm.

Hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 3 4 tricarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 72 A solution of 71 0.5 g 1.1 mmol was dissolved in NMP 5 mL . To this solution was added ACN 10 mL CCl 10 mL and HO 20 mL . To this biphasic solution was added NaIO 3.4 g 16 mmol . After 10 min RuCl.hydrate 29 mg 0.14 mmol was added and the solution immediately turned dark orange. Precipitation was observed after about 10 min. After 3.5 h the solution was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine 2 . The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give crude 72 as a dark brown colored oil 470 mg which was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and treated with DMSO 0.15 mL and stirred at ambient temperature overnight. The solution was then concentrated and used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.36 7.29 m 5H 5.14 m 2H 4.55 m 2H 3.75 3.53 m 1H 3.32 3.17 m 1H 2.38 app t J 8.4 Hz 1H 1.47 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 391.2 M H .

Hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 3 4 tricarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 3 methyl ester 74 Indole 73 0.5 g 1.1 mmol prepared from compound 65 using the procedures described in Schemes LXIV through LXVIII was dissolved in ACN 5 mL CCl 5 mL and HO 10 mL . To this biphasic solution was added NaIO 3.4 g 16 mmol . After 10 min RuCl.hydrate 23 mg 0.14 mmol was added and the solution immediately turned dark orange. Precipitation was observed after about 10 min. After 3.5 h the solution was diluted with EtOAc and washed with brine 2 . The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give the crude acid as a dark brown oil 460 mg which was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and treated with DMSO 0.10 mL and stirred at ambient temperature overnight. The solution was then concentrated and used without further purification.

To a solution of the crude acid 0.47 g in EtO 5 mL was added an ethereal solution of diazomethane that was prepared by treatment of N nitroso N methyl urea 0.6 g in EtO 10 mL with 1M KOH 10 mL . After consumption of starting material monitored by TLC the reaction mixture was diluted with HOAc 5 mL . The solution was extracted with EtOAc washed with saturated NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a dark oil that was purified by HPLC 2 Dynamax SiO 10 EtOAc hexane to 100 EtOAc over 30 min to give 74 0.15 g as a yellow colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.35 m 5H 5.19 5.08 m 2H 4.69 m 1H 4.53 4.49 m 1H 3.92 3.84 m 2H 3.69 s 3H 3.25 3.08 m 2H 2.22 1.95 m 2H 1.42 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 405.2 M H .

Hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 3 4 tricarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 72 A solution of 74 1.4 g 3.5 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was added to a solution of NaOMe 0.34 g 6.3 mmol in MeOH at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h and then concentrated. The residue was diluted with EtOAc washed successively with 1M HCl brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 72 as an orange colored foam 1.39 g that was used without further purification.

Hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 3 4 tricarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 72 A solution of 75 mixture of diastereomers 1.5 g 3.1 mmol The mixture of diastereomers was prepared from the mixture of diastereomers 65 and 66 generated in Scheme LXIII using the procedures described in Schemes LXIV through LXVIII on the diastereomeric mixture produced in each step in NMP 5 mL MeCN 10 mL CCl 10 mL and HO 20 mL was treated with NaIO 9.3 g 44 mmol in one portion. After 10 min RuCl.HO 57 mg 0.28 mmol was added and the solution immediately turned dark orange. After 10 min the reaction mixture became warm and precipitation was observed. After 7.5 h the solution was diluted with EtOAc and 1M HCl and filtered through Celite and rinsed with EtOAc. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc washed successively with 1M HCl 10 NaSO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a mixture of crude acids as a dark brown oil 1.4 g which was used without further purification.

A solution of crude acids 1.4 g 3.6 mmol in DMF 20 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with KCO 2.5 g 18.1 mmol . After 10 min this suspension was treated with CHI 0.65 mL 10.4 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After consumption of starting material approximately 2 h monitored by TLC the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and 1M HCl. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with 1M HCl 10 NaSO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a dark brown residue. The dark residue was absorbed onto SiOand purified by flash chromatography 1 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 0.69 g of a mixture of methyl esters 55 2 steps as a yellow colored foam.

To a suspension of NaOMe 2.0 g 37 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was added a solution of methyl esters 1.3 g 3.2 mmol in a dropwise fashion at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h and then concentrated. The residue was diluted with EtOAc washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 72 as an orange colored foam 1.1 g that was used without further purification.

Hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 3 4 tricarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 3 methyl ester 76 To a solution of crude 72 0.47 g in EtOAc 10 mL and EtO 10 mL was added an ethereal solution of diazomethane that was prepared by treatment of N nitroso N methyl urea 0.5 g in EtO 10 mL with 1M KOH 10 mL . After consumption of starting material monitored by TLC the reaction mixture was diluted with HOAc. The solution was extracted with EtOAc washed with saturated NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a dark oil that was purified by HPLC 2 Dynamax SiO 10 EtOAc hexane to 100 EtOAc over 30 min to give 76 0.19 g as a yellow colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.40 7.29 m 5H 5.23 5.09 m 2H 4.56 4.52 m 2H 4.11 4.04 m 1H 3.69 s 3H 3.45 3.42 m 1H 3.22 3.12 m 1H 2.27 2.10 m 1H 1.96 m 1H 1.47 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 405.2 M H .

3 Hydroxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 77 A solution of ester 76 2.7 g 6.7 mmol in THF 15 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with LiBH 10 mL 2M in THF . After 3 h the solution was slowly treated with MeOH followed by HO. The solution was then concentrated and diluted with EtOAc. The solution was slowly treated with 1M HCl until gas generation ceased. The solution was extracted with EtOAc washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was absorbed onto SiOand purified by flash chromatography 1 1 hexane EtOAc to 1 2 hexane EtOAc to afford alcohol 77 1.9 g 75 as a light yellow colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.39 7.27 m 5H 5.13 5.09 m 2H 4.43 4.41 m 1H 4.13 4.08 m 2H 3.70 3.29 m 6H 2.48 2.46 m 1H 2.53 2.05 m 1H 2.03 1.99 m 1H 1.48 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 377.5 M H .

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 78 A solution of alcohol 77 0.84 g 2.2 mmol in benzene 15 mL was treated with 3 4 difluoro phenol 402 mg 3.1 mmol and triphenylphosphine 864 mg 3.3 mmol . To this solution was added DIAD 0.65 mL 3.3 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature. After 16 h the solution was concentrated diluted with DCM washed with 1M NaOH dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The aqueous phase was back extracted with EtO and the combined organic extracts were absorbed on SiOand purified by flash chromatography 3 1 hexane EtOAc to 1 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 78 0.86 g which was contaminated with DIAD related impurities and used without further purification.

6 Methanesulfonyloxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 79 A solution of alcohol 77 0.78 g 2.1 mmol in DCM 12 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with DIPEA 0.55 mL 3.2 mmol followed by methanesulfonyl chloride 0.22 mL 2.8 mmol . After 1 h the solution was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford mesylate 79 as a light yellow colored foam which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.36 7.31 m 5H 5.19 5.09 m 2H 4.45 m 1H 4.29 4.04 m 3H 3.71 3.44 m 4H 3.22 3.12 m 1H 2.96 s 3H 2.85 2.70 m 1H 2.21 1.99 m 2H 1.49 s 9H ppm.

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 4 tert butyl ester 78 A solution of 3 4 difluoro phenol 342 mg 2.6 mmol in DMF 5 mL was treated with CsCO 1.0 g 3.1 mmol . After 20 min the yellow solution was treated with mesylate 79 610 mg 1.3 mmol in DMF 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 3.5 h and then cooled to ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtO and water. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtO. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by HPLC 2 Dynamax SiO 10 EtOAc hexane to 100 EtOAc 30 min Flow 40 mL min to afford the 78 422 mg 67 as a light yellow colored oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.37 7.28 m 5H 7.05 7.03 m 1H 6.66 6.64 m 1H 6.54 6.51 m 1H 5.18 5.09 m 2H 4.49 4.47 m 1H 4.24 4.16 m 1H 3.99 m 0.5H 3.81 3.69 m 3H 3.62 m 0.5H 3.55 3.49 m 1H 3.25 3.16 m 1H 2.87 2.74 m 1H 2.26 2.12 m 1H 1.99 m 1H 1.49 s 9H ppm.

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 80 A solution of phenol ether 78 0.86 g 1.8 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with TFA 3 mL at 0 C. After 20 min the reaction was warmed to ambient temperature. After 1 h the solution was concentrated diluted with EtOAc washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The aqueous phase was back extracted with DCM and the combined organic extracts were concentrated to give amine 80 as an orange colored oil that was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 389.5 M H .

4 2 tert Butoxycarbonylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 81 A solution of Boc Tle OH 463 mg 2.0 mmol in NMP 6 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with HATU 758 mg 2.0 mmol and DIPEA 0.45 mL 2.5 mmol . After 10 min amine 80 772 mg 2.0 mmol in NMP 6 mL was added. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 16 h the solution was diluted with EtOAc washed successively with 1M HCl saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was diluted with ACN water and purified by RP HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 20 ACN water to 100 ACN over 30 min Flow 40 mL min . The product containing fractions were combined concentrated and extracted with EtOAc. The organic extract was washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO and filtered. The aqueous phase was back extracted with DCM and the combined organic extracts were concentrated to afford 81 269 mg as an off white foam. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.37 7.28 m 5H 7.02 app q J 9.0 Hz 1H 6.66 m 1H 6.52 m 1H 5.28 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 5.19 5.13 m 2H 4.46 m 2H 4.31 d J 9.9 Hz 1H 4.01 3.98 m 2H 3.85 3.76 m 2H 3.46 3.37 m 2H 2.81 app q J 5.7 Hz 1H 2.43 m 1H 2.26 m 1H 1.43 s 9H 0.99 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 602.8 M H .

4 2 Amino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 82 A solution of carbamate 81 542 g 0.90 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with TFA 3 mL at 0 C. After 20 min the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature. After 1 h the solution was concentrated diluted with EtOAc washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO and filtered. The aqueous phase was back extracted with DCM and the combined organic extracts were concentrated to afford 82 401 mg 89 as a light yellow colored foam was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.31 7.26 m 5H 7.00 6.95 m 1H 6.65 6.60 m 1H 6.49 6.47 m 1H 5.14 5.08 m 2H 4.41 m 2H 3.95 3.92 m 1H 3.83 3.72 m 2H 3.40 3.29 m 2H 2.79 app q J 5.4 Hz 1H 2.34 2.19 m 1H 1.66 m 2H 0.94 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 502.6 M H .

4 2 2 tert Butoxycarbonyl methyl amino propionylamino 3 3 dimethyl butyryl 3 3 4 difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 83 A solution of Boc N Me Ala OH 181 mg 0.89 mmol in NMP 6 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with HATU 345 mg 0.91 mmol and DIPEA 0.20 mL 1.2 mmol . After 10 min amine 82 400 mg 0.80 mmol in NMP 5 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 16 h the solution was diluted with EtOAc washed successively with 1M HCl saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 83 546 mg as an off white foam that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.37 7.29 m 5H 7.01 app q J 9.3 Hz 1H 6.66 m 1H 6.53 m 1H 5.19 5.09 m 2H 4.69 m 1H 4.62 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.49 4.44 m 2H 4.05 3.97 m 1H 3.84 3.77 m 1H 3.48 3.36 m 1H 2.79 s 3H 1.50 s 9H 1.32 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.98 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 687.9 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethyl propylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 84 A solution of carbamate 83 546 mg 0.8 mmol in MeOH 15 mL was treated with 10 Pd C wet 208 mg and subjected to H 50 psi using a Parr apparatus. After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was filtered through a filter disc Acrodisc PSF 0.45 M with MeOH and concentrated to afford amine 84 443 mg as a light yellow colored foam which was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.07 app q J 9.6 Hz 1H 6.89 6.82 m 1H 6.72 6.68 m 1H 4.72 4.69 m 1H 4.56 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.45 dd J 2.1 6.0 Hz 1H 4.25 4.11 m 4H 3.90 3.81 m 1H 3.47 3.36 m 1H 3.30 3.24 m 1H 2.79 s 3H 2.46 2.38 m 1H 2.26 2.17 m 1H 1.48 s 9H 1.30 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.99 s 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 553.7 M H .

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 methanesulfonyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 85 A solution of amine 84 220 mg 0.4 mmol in DCM 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with DIPEA 0.21 mL 1.2 mmol followed by methanesulfonyl chloride 0.03 mL 0.42 mmol and DMAP 5 mg 0.04 mmol . After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 85 271 mg 100 as a yellow colored foam that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.08 q J 9.3 18.9 Hz 1H 6.86 br 1H 6.76 6.69 m 1H 6.63 6.58 m 1H 4.73 4.65 m 1H 4.60 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 4.47 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 4.33 4.29 m 1H 4.16 4.07 m 2H 4.01 3.96 m 1H 3.68 3.53 m 3H 2.93 2.79 m 6H 2.57 2.50 m 1H 2.12 2.06 m 1H 1.61 s 1.5H 1.49 s 7.5H 1.31 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.99 s 9H ppm.

 1 1 4 Acetyl 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 86 A solution of amine 84 480 mg 0.87 mmol in DCM 8 mL was treated with acetic anhydride 0.12 mL 1.3 mmol followed by DMAP 11 mg 0.087 mmol . After 18 h the solution was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 86 537 mg 100 as a white foam that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.11 6.99 m 1H 6.89 br s 1H 6.74 6.67 m 1H 6.61 6.56 m 1H 4.77 4.69 m 1H 4.63 4.57 m 2H 4.39 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 4.10 3.95 m 2H 3.82 3.67 m 2H 3.54 3.48 m 1H 3.45 3.36 m 1H 2.87 2.79 m 4H 2.44 2.38 m 1H 2.23 2.08 m 6H 1.65 s 1H 1.49 s 9H 1.32 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.99 s 9H ppm.

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 2 oxo propionyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 87 A solution of amine 84 480 mg 0.87 mmol in DCM 8 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with pyruvic acid 0.06 mL 0.91 mmol EDC 200 mg 1.04 mmol HOBt 141 mg 1.04 mmol and DIPEA 0.47 mL 2.69 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 87 529 mg 97 as a white foam that was used with out further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.10 7.01 m 1H 6.88 br s 1H 6.71 6.64 m 1H 6.56 6.53 m 1H 4.72 4.68 m 1H 4.62 4.53 m 2H 4.44 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 4.15 3.97 m 2H 3.89 3.81 m 1H 3.72 3.61 m 1H 3.53 3.36 m 1H 2.88 2.79 m 4H 2.49 2.00 m 5H 1.49 s 9H 1.32 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.98 s 9H ppm.

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 dimethylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 88 A solution of amine 84 480 mg 0.87 mmol in DCM 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with TEA 0.18 mL 1.30 mmol followed by dimethylcarbamyl chloride 0.10 mL 1.04 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. After 6 h the reaction mixture was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 88 612 mg 100 as a white foam that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.04 q J 9.0 18.3 Hz 1H 6.88 br s 1H 6.75 6.67 m 1H 6.61 6.56 m 1H 4.79 4.51 m 2H 4.31 d J 5.7 Hz 1H 4.08 4.01 m 1H 3.99 3.94 m 1H 3.81 3.72 m 1H 3.54 3.49 m 1H 3.41 3.25 m 2H 2.85 2.79 m 9H 2.05 2.03 m 2H 1.49 1.42 m 9H 1.31 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.99 s 9H ppm.

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 pyrimidin 2 yl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 89 A solution of amine 84 325 mg 0.59 mmol in DMF 8 mL was treated with 2 chloropyrimidine 88 mg 0.76 mmol and DIPEA 0.15 mL 0.88 mmol and heated to 80 C. in an oil bath. After 18 h the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature diluted with water and extracted with EtO 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed successively with water 3 and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 89 341 mg 92 as an orange colored solid that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.67 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 8.35 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 7.30 t J 4.8 Hz 1H 7.08 6.87 m 1H 6.86 br s 1H 6.79 6.72 m 1H 6.67 6.49 m 2H 4.74 4.53 m 3H 4.40 4.36 m 0.5H 4.19 4.17 m 0.5H 4.08 3.93 m 3H 3.86 3.80 m 1H 3.68 3.54 m 1H 3.49 3.99 m 1H 3.27 2.89 m 2H 2.79 s 3H 2.48 2.44 m 1.5H 2.21 2.11 m 0.5H 2.01 1.84 m 2H 1.50 1.48 m 9H 1.34 1.30 m 3H 1.03 0.95 m 9H ppm.

 1 1 6 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 methylcarbamoyl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carbonyl 2 2 dimethylpropylcarbamoyl ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 90 A solution of amine 84 220 mg 0.4 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with TEA 0.11 mL 0.78 mmol followed by methyl isocyanate 0.05 mL 0.78 mmol . After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was quenched with MeOH 5 mL followed by NHOH 15M 10 drops . After 10 min the solution was diluted with DCM washed successively with 1M HCl saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 90 as a pale yellow colored foam 175 mg 72 that was used without further purification. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.05 q J 9.0 18.3 Hz 1H 6.89 br s 1H 6.74 6.67 m 1H 6.60 6.54 m 1H 4.68 br s 1H 4.61 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.51 4.48 m 1H 4.40 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 4.25 4.22 m 1H 4.08 3.99 m 2H 3.79 t J 9.0 Hz 1H 3.58 3.55 m 1H 3.47 3.34 m 2H 2.84 2.79 m 7H 2.42 2.36 m 1H 2.13 2.00 m 1H 1.70 br s 1H 1.49 s 9H 1.32 d J 6.9 Hz 3H 0.98 s 9H ppm.

3 3 4 Difluoro phenoxymethyl 4 3 3 dimethyl 2 2 methylamino propionylamino butyryl hexahydro pyrrolo 3 2 b pyrrole 1 carboxylic acid methylamide 91 A solution of carbamate 90 175 mg 0.29 mmol in DCM 10 mL was treated with TFA 4 mL at 0 C. After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was concentrated diluted with EtOAc washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 10 ACN water to 70 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc 30 min Flow 40 mL min . The product containing fractions were combined frozen and lyophilized to afford 91 80 mg 55 as a white flocculent solid.

EXAMPLES 63 through 72 were prepared using the general chemistries described in Schemes LXXXIII LXXXIX by replacing methanesulfonyl chloride acetic anhydride pyruvic acid dimethylcarbamyl chloride 2 chloropyrimidine or methyl isocyanate with isopropyl isocyanate cyclopropylcarbonyl chloride or methyl chloroformate.

As noted above dimers of the compounds generally and specifically described above can be prepared by a person of skill in the art. Illustrative dimers of the invention can be prepared e.g. in accordance with the following general synthetic schemes and examples 

Additional bivalent dimeric compounds can be prepared by linking two independently substituted monovalent compounds through the R2 and R2 positions as described by the following formula the various substituents as defined throughout the application .

The synthetic preparation of such bivalent compounds is described in Schemes XCIV through CI following chemistry outlined in this application and described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 906 U.S. Pat. No. 7 309 792 which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

It is intended that the present invention encompass compounds that are synthesized in vitro using laboratory techniques such as those well known to synthetic chemists or synthesized using in vivo techniques such as through metabolism fermentation digestion and the like. It is also contemplated that the compounds of the present invention may be synthesized using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques.

The present invention also includes isotopically enriched compounds which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C N O O P P S F and Cl.

Compounds of the present invention that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detection. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically enriched compounds of this invention can generally be prepared by substituting a readily available isotopically labelled reagent for a non isotopically enriched reagent.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms. The compounds of the present invention e.g. compounds of Formula I IS and IR also are capable of forming both pharmaceutically acceptable salts including but not limited to acid addition and or base addition salts. Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in various solid states including an amorphous form noncrystalline form and in the form of clathrates prodrugs polymorphs bio hydrolyzable esters racemic mixtures non racemic mixtures or as purified stereoisomers including but not limited to optically pure enantiomers and diastereomers. In general all of these forms can be used as an alternative form to the free base or free acid forms of the compounds as described above and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

A polymorph refers to solid crystalline forms of a compound. Different polymorphs of the same compound can exhibit different physical chemical and or spectroscopic properties. Different physical properties include but are not limited to stability e.g. to heat or light compressibility and density important in formulation and product manufacturing and dissolution rates which can affect bioavailability . Different physical properties of polymorphs can affect their processing.

A clathrate means a compound or a salt thereof in the form of a crystal lattice that contains spaces e.g. channels that have a guest molecule e.g. a solvent or water trapped within.

As noted above the compounds of the present invention can be administered inter alia as pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters amides or prodrugs. The term salts refers to inorganic and organic salts of compounds of the present invention. The salts can be prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of a compound or by separately reacting a purified compound in its free base or acid form with a suitable organic or inorganic base or acid and isolating the salt thus formed. Representative salts include the hydrobromide hydrochloride sulfate bisulfate nitrate acetate oxalate palmitiate stearate laurate borate benzoate lactate phosphate tosylate citrate maleate fumarate succinate tartrate naphthylate mesylate glucoheptonate lactobionate and laurylsulphonate salts and the like. The salts may include cations based on the alkali and alkaline earth metals such as sodium lithium potassium calcium magnesium and the like as well as non toxic ammonium quaternary ammonium and amine cations including but not limited to ammonium tetramethylammonium tetraethylammonium methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine ethylamine and the like. See for example S. M. Berge et al. Pharmaceutical Salts J Pharm Sci 66 1 19 1977 .

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters of the compounds of the present invention include C Calkyl esters. Acceptable esters also include C Ccycloalkyl esters as well as arylalkyl esters such as benzyl. C Calkyl esters are commonly used. Esters of compounds of the present invention may be prepared according to methods that are well known in the art.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable amides of the compounds of the present invention include amides derived from ammonia primary C Calkyl amines and secondary C Cdialkyl amines. In the case of secondary amines the amine may also be in the form of a 5 or 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing at least one nitrogen atom. Amides derived from ammonia C Cprimary alkyl amines and C Cdialkyl secondary amines are commonly used. Amides of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared according to methods well known to those skilled in the art.

The term prodrug refers to compounds that are rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound of the above formulae for example by hydrolysis in blood. A thorough discussion is provided in T. Higuchi and V. Stella Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

To illustrate if the compound of the invention contains a carboxylic acid functional group a prodrug can comprise an ester formed by the replacement of the hydrogen atom of the acid group with a group such as C Calkyl C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl having from 4 to 9 carbon atoms 1 methyl 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl having from 5 to 10 carbon atoms alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl having from 3 to 6 carbon atoms 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl having from 4 to 7 carbon atoms 1 methyl 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl having from 5 to 8 carbon atoms N alkoxycarbonyl aminomethyl having from 3 to 9 carbon atoms 1 N alkoxycarbonyl aminomethyl having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms 3 phthalidyl 4 crotonolactonyl gamma butyrolacton 4 yl di N N C C alkylamino C C alkyl such as dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl C C alkyl N N di C C alkylcarbamoyl C C alkyl and piperidino pyrrolidino or morpholino C C alkyl.

Similarly if a compound of the present invention comprises an alcohol functional group a prodrug can be formed by the replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl C C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl C C alkanoyl amino C C alkanoyl arylacyl and aminoacyl or aminoacyl aminoacyl where each aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate .

Compounds and salts of the present invention may also exist in tautomeric forms such as an enol and an imine form and the corresponding keto and enamine forms and geometric isomers and mixtures thereof. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though only one tautomer may be described by the formulae above the present invention includes all tautomers of the present compounds.

The compounds of the present invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is contemplated that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds as well as mixtures thereof including racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. In addition the present invention contemplates all geometric and positional isomers. For example if the compound contains a double bond both the cis and trans forms designated as Z and E respectively as well as mixtures are contemplated.

Mixture of stereoisomers such as diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual stereochemical components on the basis of their physical chemical differences by known methods such as chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can also be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diasteromeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. an alcohol separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some compounds may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls .

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like. The present invention contemplates and encompasses both the solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered to a patient either alone or a part of a pharmaceutical composition in a therapeutically effective amount. A variety of non limiting methods for administering the compounds and related compositions to patients include orally rectally parenterally intravenously intramuscularly or subcutaneously intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally intravesically locally powders ointments or drops or as a buccal or nasal spray. In addition the substance or compositions containing the active substances can be administered all at once as for example by a bolus injection multiple times such as by a series of tablets or delivered substantially uniformly over a period of time as for example using transdermal delivery. It is also noted that the dose of the substances can be varied over time.

The compounds and related compositions of the present invention can be administered alone or in combination with other pharmaceutically active substances. The other pharmaceutically active substances can be intended to treat the same disease or condition as the substances of the present invention or a different disease or condition. If the patient is to receive or is receiving multiple pharmaceutically active substances the substances can be administered simultaneously or sequentially. For example in the case of tablets the active substances may be found in one tablet or in separate tablets which can be administered at once or sequentially in any order. In addition it should be recognized that the compositions may be different forms. For example one or more substance may be delivered via a tablet while another is administered via injection or orally as a syrup. All combinations delivery methods and administration sequences are contemplated.

Pharmaceutical compositions to be used comprise a therapeutically effective amount of a compound as described above or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or other form thereof together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The phrase pharmaceutical composition refers to a composition suitable for administration in medical or veterinary use. It should be appreciated that the determinations of proper dosage forms dosage amounts and routes of administration for a particular patient are within the level of ordinary skill in the pharmaceutical and medical arts.

Compositions suitable for parenteral administration conveniently comprise a sterile aqueous preparation of a compound or composition of the invention which is preferably isotonic with the blood of the recipient. This aqueous preparation may be formulated according to known methods using suitable dispersing or wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents. Various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol and sorbic acid also may be included. The sterile injectable preparation also may be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butane diol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may be used in the preparation of injectables. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin. Carrier formulation suitable for subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular etc. administrations can be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the compound is admixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable excipient such as a fillers or extenders as for example starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders as for example carboxymethylcellulose alignates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone sucrose and acacia c humectants as for example glycerol d disintegrating agents as for example agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain complex silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarders as for example paraffin f absorption accelerators as for example quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents as for example cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h adsorbents as for example kaolin and bentonite and i lubricants as for example talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate or mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. Solid dosage forms such as tablets dragees capsules pills and granules also can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and others well known in the art. The solid dosage form also may contain opacifying agents and can also be of such composition that they release the active compound or compounds in a certain part of the intestinal tract in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used are polymeric substances and waxes. The active compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form if appropriate with one or more of the above mentioned excipients. Such solid dosage forms may generally contain from 1 to 95 w w of the active compound. In certain embodiments the active compound ranges from 5 to 70 w w .

Since one aspect of the present invention contemplates the treatment of the disease conditions with a combination of pharmaceutically active agents that may be administered separately the invention further relates to combining separate pharmaceutical compositions in kit form. The kit comprises two separate pharmaceutical compositions a substance of the present invention and a second pharmaceutical substance. The kit comprises a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet. Additional examples of containers include syringes boxes and bags. Typically the kit comprises directions for the use of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician or veterinarian.

An example of such a kit is a so called blister pack. Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are being widely used for the packaging of pharmaceutical unit dosage forms tablets capsules and the like . Blister packs generally consist of a sheet of relatively stiff material covered with a foil of a preferably transparent plastic material. During the packaging process recesses are formed in the plastic foil. The recesses have the size and shape of the tablets or capsules to be packed. Next the tablets or capsules are placed in the recesses and the sheet of relatively stiff material is sealed against the plastic foil at the face of the foil which is opposite from the direction in which the recesses were formed. As a result the tablets or capsules are sealed in the recesses between the plastic foil and the sheet. Preferably the strength of the sheet is such that the tablets or capsules can be removed from the blister pack by manually applying pressure on the recesses whereby an opening is formed in the sheet at the place of the recess. The tablet or capsule can then be removed via said opening.

It may be desirable to provide a memory aid on the kit e.g. in the form of numbers next to the tablets or capsules whereby the numbers correspond with the days of the regimen which the tablets or capsules so specified should be ingested. Another example of such a memory aid is a calendar printed on the card e.g. as follows First Week Monday Tuesday . . . etc. . . . Second Week Monday Tuesday . . . etc. Other variations of memory aids will be readily apparent. A daily dose can be a single tablet or capsule or several pills or capsules to be taken on a given day. Also a daily dose of a substance of the present invention can consist of one tablet or capsule while a daily dose of the second substance can consist of several tablets or capsules and vice versa. The memory aid should reflect this and aid in correct administration of the active agents.

In another specific embodiment of the invention a dispenser designed to dispense the daily doses one at a time in the order of their intended use is provided. Preferably the dispenser is equipped with a memory aid so as to further facilitate compliance with the regimen. An example of such a memory aid is a mechanical counter which indicates the number of daily doses that has been dispensed. Another example of such a memory aid is a battery powered micro chip memory coupled with a liquid crystal readout or audible reminder signal which for example reads out the date that the last daily dose has been taken and or reminds one when the next dose is to be taken.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the compound or composition the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers as for example ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propyleneglycol 1 3 butyleneglycol dimethylformamide oils in particular cottonseed oil groundnut oil corn germ oil olive oil castor oil and sesame oil glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethyleneglycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan or mixtures of these substances. Besides such inert diluents the composition can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Compositions for rectal administrations are preferably suppositories which can be prepared by mixing compounds of the present invention with suitable non irritating excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter polyethyleneglycol or a low melting suppository wax which are solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.

Dosage forms for topical administration of a compound of this invention include ointments powders sprays and inhalants. The active compound is admixed under sterile conditions with a physiologically acceptable carrier and any preservatives buffers or propellants as may be required. Ophthalmic formulations eye ointments powders and solutions are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention.

The compounds and compositions of the present invention also may benefit from a variety of delivery systems including time released delayed release or sustained release delivery systems. Such option may be particularly beneficial when the compounds and composition are used in conjunction with other treatment protocols as described in more detail below.

Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer base systems such as poly lactide glycolide copolyoxalates polycaprolactones polyesteramides polyorthoesters polyhydroxybutyric acid and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 109. Delivery systems also include non polymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono di and tri glycerides hydrogel release systems sylastic systems peptide based systems wax coatings compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients partially fused implants and the like. Specific examples include but are not limited to a erosional systems in which the active compound is contained in a form within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 452 775 4 667 014 4 748 034 and 5 239 660 and b diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 832 253 and 3 854 480. In addition pump based hardware delivery systems can be used some of which are adapted for implantation.

Use of a long term sustained release implant may be desirable. Long term release as used herein means that the implant is constructed and arranged to deliver therapeutic levels of the active compound for at least 30 days and preferably 60 days. Long term sustained release implants are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include some of the release systems described above.

In practicing the methods of the present invention the compounds and compositions of the present invention are administered in a therapeutically effective amount. Generally doses of active compounds would be from about 0.01 mg kg per day to 1000 mg kg per day. It is expected that doses ranging from 50 500 mg kg will be suitable preferably intravenously intramuscularly or intradermally and in one or several administrations per day. The compounds of the present invention may also be used in combination with radiation therapy hormone therapy surgery and immunotherapy which therapies are well know to those skilled in the art.

When practicing the conjoint or combination therapy described in more detail below the administration of the compounds and compositions of the present invention can occur simultaneous with subsequent to or prior to chemotherapy or radiation so long as the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation sensitizes the system to the compounds and compositions of the present invention.

In general routine experimentation in clinical trials will determine specific ranges for optimal therapeutic effect for a particular compound and composition of the present invention and each administrative protocol and administration to specific patients will be adjusted to within effective and safe ranges depending on the patient condition and responsiveness to initial administrations. However the ultimate administration protocol will be regulated according to the judgment of the attending clinician considering such factors as age condition and size of the patient the potency of the compound or composition the duration of the treatment and the severity of the disease being treated. For example a dosage regimen of the compound or composition can be an oral administration of from 1 mg to 2000 mg day preferably 1 to 1000 mg day more preferably 50 to 600 mg day in two to four preferably two divided doses to reduce tumor growth. Intermittent therapy e.g. one week out of three weeks or three out of four weeks may also be used.

In the event that a response in a subject is insufficient at the initial doses applied higher doses or effectively higher doses by a different more localized delivery route may be employed to the extent that the patient tolerance permits. Multiple doses per day are contemplated to achieve appropriate systemic levels of compounds. Generally a maximum dose is used that is the highest safe dose according to sound medical judgment. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand however that a patient may insist upon a lower dose or tolerable dose for medical reasons psychological reasons or for virtually any other reason.

The compounds of the present invention and pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the present invention can be administered to a subject suffering from cancer an autoimmune disease or another disorder where a defect in apoptosis is implicated. In connection with such treatments the patient can be treated prophylactically acutely or chronically using compounds and compositions of the present invention depending on the nature of the disease. Typically the host or subject in each of these methods is human although other mammals may also benefit from the administration of a compound of the present invention.

As described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 244 851 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference IAP antagonists can be used for the treatment of all cancer types which fail to undergo apoptosis. Thus compounds of the present invention can be used to provide a therapeutic approach to the treatment of many kinds of solid tumors including but not limited to carcinomas sarcomas including Kaposi s sarcoma erythroblastoma glioblastoma meningioma astrocytoma melanoma and myoblastoma. Treatment or prevention of non solid tumor cancers such as leukemia is also contemplated by this invention. Indications may include but are not limited to brain cancers skin cancers bladder cancers ovarian cancers breast cancers gastric cancers pancreatic cancers colon cancers blood cancers lung cancers and bone cancers. Examples of such cancer types include neuroblastoma intestine carcinoma such as rectum carcinoma colon carcinoma familiary adenomatous polyposis carcinoma and hereditary non polyposis colorectal cancer esophageal carcinoma labial carcinoma larynx carcinoma hypopharynx carcinoma tong carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma gastric carcinoma adenocarcinoma medullary thyroidea carcinoma papillary thyroidea carcinoma renal carcinoma kidney parenchym carcinoma ovarian carcinoma cervix carcinoma uterine corpus carcinoma endometrium carcinoma chorion carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma prostate carcinoma testis carcinoma breast carcinoma urinary carcinoma melanoma brain tumors such as glioblastoma astrocytoma meningioma medulloblastoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors Hodgkin lymphoma non Hodgkin lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma acute lymphatic leukemia ALL chronic lymphatic leukemia CLL acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myeloid leukemia CML adult T cell leukemia lymphoma hepatocellular carcinoma gall bladder carcinoma bronchial carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma multiple myeloma basalioma teratoma retinoblastoma choroidea melanoma seminoma rhabdomyo sarcoma craniopharyngeoma osteosarcoma chondrosarcoma myosarcoma liposarcoma fibrosarcoma Ewing sarcoma and plasmocytoma.

The inventors believe that the IAP antagonists of the present invention will be particularly active for treating human malignancies where cIAP1 and cIAP2 are over expressed e.g. lung cancers see Dai et al Hu. Molec. Genetics 2003 v 12 pp 791 801 leukemias multiple references and other cancers Tamm et al Clin Cancer Res 2000 v 6 1796 1803 . The inventors also expect that the IAP antagonists of the present invention will be active in disorders that may be driven by inflammatory cytokines such as TNF playing a pro survival role for example there is a well defined role for TNF acting as a survival factor in ovarian carcinoma similarly for gastric cancers see Kulbe et al Cancer Res 2007 67 585 592 .

In addition to apoptosis defects found in tumors defects in the ability to eliminate self reactive cells of the immune system due to apoptosis resistance are considered to play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases are characterized in that the cells of the immune system produce antibodies against its own organs and molecules or directly attack tissues resulting in the destruction of the latter. A failure of those self reactive cells to undergo apoptosis leads to the manifestation of the disease. Defects in apoptosis regulation have been identified in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis.

Examples of such autoimmune diseases include collagen diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus Sharp s syndrome CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s syndrome esophageal dysmotility telangiectasia dermatomyositis vasculitis Morbus Wegener s and Sj gren s syndrome renal diseases such as Goodpasture s syndrome rapidly progressing glomerulonephritis and membrano proliferative glomerulonephritis type II endocrine diseases such as type I diabetes autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy APECED autoimmune parathyroidism pernicious anemia gonad insufficiency idiopathic Morbus Addison s hyperthyreosis Hashimoto s thyroiditis and primary myxedema skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris bullous pemphigoid herpes gestationis epidermolysis bullosa and erythema multiforme major liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune cholangitis autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis type 2 primary sclerosing cholangitis neuronal diseases such as multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myasthenic Lambert Eaton syndrome acquired neuromyotony Guillain Barr syndrome M ller Fischer syndrome stiff man syndrome cerebellar degeneration ataxia opsoklonus sensoric neuropathy and achalasia blood diseases such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof infectious diseases with associated autoimmune reactions such as AIDS Malaria and Chagas disease.

The present invention also is directed to the use of the compounds and compositions as a chemopotentiating agent with other treatment approaches. The term chemopotentiating agent refers to an agent that acts to increase the sensitivity of an organism tissue or cell to a chemical compound or treatment namely chemotherapeutic agents or chemo drugs or to radiation treatment. Thus compounds and compositions of the present invention can be used for inhibiting tumor growth in vivo by administering them in combination with a biologic or chemotherapeutic agent or by using them in combination with chemoradiation. In these applications the administration of the compounds and compositions of the present invention may occur prior to and with sufficient time to cause sensitization of the site to be treated. Alternatively the compounds and compositions of the present invention may be used contemporaneously with radiation and or additional anti cancer chemical agents infra . Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the compounds and compositions of the present invention increasing convenience to the subject and the physician and may be particularly suitable for certain compositions of the present invention.

Biological and chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation induce apoptosis by activating the extrinsic or intrinsic apoptotic pathways and since the compounds and compositions of the present invention relieve antagonists of apoptotic proteins IAPs and thus remove the block in apoptosis the combination of chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation with the compounds and compositions of the present invention should work synergistically to facilitate apoptosis.

A combination of a compound of the present invention and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy of any type that activates the intrinsic pathway may provide a more effective approach to destroying tumor cells. Compounds of the present invention interact with IAP s such as XIAP cIAP 1 cIAP 2 ML IAP etc. and block the IAP mediated inhibition of apoptosis while chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and or radiation therapy kills actively dividing cells by activating the intrinsic apoptotic pathway leading to apoptosis and cell death. As is described in more detail below embodiments of the invention provide combinations of a compound of the present invention and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation which provide a synergistic action against unwanted cell proliferation. This synergistic action between a compound of the present invention and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy can improve the efficiency of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapies. This will allow for an increase in the effectiveness of current chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents or radiation treatments allowing the dose of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent to be lowered therein providing both a more effective dosing schedule as well as use of a more tolerable dose of chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation.

In an embodiment of the present invention the patient is treated by administering a compound or a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention at a time the patient is subject to concurrent or antecedent radiation or chemotherapy for treatment of a neoproliferative pathology of a tumor such as but not limited to bladder cancer breast cancer prostate cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer gastric cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer renal cancer hepatoma melanoma lymphoma sarcoma and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of the present invention the compound or composition of the present invention can be administered in combination with a chemotherapeutic and or for use in combination with radiotherapy immunotherapy and or photodynamic therapy promoting apoptosis and enhancing the effectiveness of the chemotherapeutic radiotherapy immunotherapy and or photodynamic therapy.

Embodiments of the invention also include a method of treating a patient afflicted with cancer by the contemporaneous or concurrent administration of a chemotherapeutic agent. Such chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to the chemotherapeutic agents described in Modern Pharmacology with Clinical Applications Sixth Edition Craig Stitzel Chpt. 56 pg 639 656 2004 herein incorporated by reference. The chemotherapeutic agent can be but is not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics plant derived products such as taxanes enzymes hormonal agents miscellaneous agents such as cisplatin monoclonal antibodies glucocorticoids mitotic inhibitors topoisomerase I inhibitors topoisomerase II inhibitors immunomodulating agents such as interferons cellular growth factors cytokines and nonsteroidal anti inflammatory compounds cellular growth factors and kinase inhibitors. Other suitable classifications for chemotherapeutic agents include mitotic inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti estrogenic analogs.

Specific examples of suitable biological and chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to cisplatin carmustine BCNU 5 fluorouracil 5 FU cytarabine Ara C gemcitabine methotrexate daunorubicin doxorubicin dexamethasone topotecan etoposide paclitaxel vincristine tamoxifen TNF alpha TRAIL interferon in both its alpha and beta forms thalidomide and melphalan. Other specific examples of suitable chemotherapeutic agents include nitrogen mustards such as cyclophosphamide alkyl sulfonates nitrosoureas ethylenimines triazenes folate antagonists purine analogs pyrimidine analogs anthracyclines bleomycins mitomycins dactinomycins plicamycin vinca alkaloids epipodophyllotoxins taxanes glucocorticoids L asparaginase estrogens androgens progestins luteinizing hormones octreotide actetate hydroxyurea procarbazine mitotane hexamethylmelamine carboplatin mitoxantrone monoclonal antibodies levamisole interferons interleukins filgrastim and sargramostim. Chemotherapeutic compositions also comprise other members i.e. other than TRAIL of the TNF superfamily of compounds.

Another embodiment of the present invention relates to the use of a compound or composition of the present invention in combination with topoisomerase inhibitors to potentiate their apoptotic inducing effect. Topoisomerase inhibitors inhibit DNA replication and repair thereby promoting apoptosis and have been used as chemothemotherapeutic agents. Topoisomerase inhibitors promote DNA damage by inhibiting the enzymes that are required in the DNA repair process. Therefore export of Smac from the mitochondria into the cell cytosol is provoked by the DNA damage caused by topoisomerase inhibitors. Topoisomerase inhibitors of both the Type I class camptothecin topotecan SN 38 irinotecan active metabolite and the Type II class etoposide are expected to show potent synergy with compounds of the present invention. Further examples of topoisomerase inhibiting agents that may be used include but are not limited to irinotecan topotecan etoposide amsacrine exatecan gimatecan etc. Other topoisomerase inhibitors include for example Aclacinomycin A camptothecin daunorubicin doxorubicin ellipticine epirubicin and mitaxantrone.

In another embodiment of the invention the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent for use in combination with the compounds and compositions of the present invention may be a platinum containing compound. In one embodiment of the invention the platinum containing compound is cisplatin. Cisplatin can synergize with a compound of the present invention and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP such as but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is carboplatin. Carboplatin can synergize with a compound of the present invention and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is oxaliplatin. The oxaliplatin can synergize with a compound of the present invention and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc.

Platinum chemotherapy drugs belong to a general group of DNA modifying agents. DNA modifying agents may be any highly reactive chemical compound that bonds with various nucleophilic groups in nucleic acids and proteins and cause mutagenic carcinogenic or cytotoxic effects. DNA modifying agents work by different mechanisms disruption of DNA function and cell death DNA damage the formation of cross bridges or bonds between atoms in the DNA and induction of mispairing of the nucleotides leading to mutations to achieve the same end result. Three non limiting examples of a platinum containing DNA modifying agents are cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin.

Cisplatin is believed to kill cancer cells by binding to DNA and interfering with its repair mechanism eventually leading to cell death. Carboplatin and oxaliplatin are cisplatin derivatives that share the same mechanism of action. Highly reactive platinum complexes are formed intracellularly and inhibit DNA synthesis by covalently binding DNA molecules to form intrastrand and interstrand DNA crosslinks.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs have been shown to induce apoptosis in colorectal cells. NSAIDs appear to induce apoptosis via the release of Smac from the mitochondria PNAS Nov. 30 2004 vol. 101 16897 16902 . Therefore the use of NSAIDs in combination with the compounds and compositions of the present invention would be expected to increase the activity of each drug over the activity of either drug independently.

Many naturally occurring compounds isolated from bacterial plant and animals can display potent and selective biological activity in humans including anticancer and antineoplastic activities. In fact many natural products or semi synthetic derivatives thereof which possess anticancer activity are already commonly used as therapeutic agents these include paclitaxel etoposide vincristine and camptothecin amongst others. Additionally there are many other classes of natural products such as the indolocarbazoles and epothilones that are undergoing clinical evaluation as anticancer agents. A reoccurring structural motif in many natural products is the attachment of one or more sugar residues onto an aglycone core structure. In some instances the sugar portion of the natural product is critical for making discrete protein ligand interactions at its site of action i.e. pharmacodynamics and removal of the sugar residue results in significant reductions in biological activity. In other cases the sugar moiety or moieties are important for modulating the physical and pharmacokinetic properties of the molecule. Rebeccamycin and staurosporine are representative of the sugar linked indolocarbazole family of anticancer natural products with demonstrated anti kinase and anti topoisomerase activity.

Taxanes are anti mitotic mitotic inhibitors or microtubule polymerization agents. Taxanes are characterized as compounds that promote assembly of microtubules by inhibiting tubulin depolymerization thereby blocking cell cycle progression through centrosomal impairment induction of abnormal spindles and suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics. Taxanes include but are not limited to docetaxel and paclitaxel. The unique mechanism of action of taxane is in contrast to other microtubule poisons such as Vinca alkaloids colchicine and cryptophycines which inhibit tubulin polymerization. Microtubules are highly dynamic cellular polymers made of alpha beta tubulin and associated proteins that play key roles during mitosis by participating in the organization and function of the spindle assuring the integrity of the segregated DNA. Therefore they represent an effective target for cancer therapy.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention is the therapeutic combination or the therapeutic use in combination of a compound or composition of the present invention with TRAIL or other chemical or biological agents which bind to and activate the TRAIL receptor s . TRAIL has received considerable attention recently because of the finding that many cancer cell types are sensitive to TRAIL induced apoptosis while most normal cells appear to be resistant to this action of TRAIL. TRAIL resistant cells may arise by a variety of different mechanisms including loss of the receptor presence of decoy receptors or overexpression of FLIP which competes for zymogen caspase 8 binding during DISC formation. In TRAIL resistance a compound or composition of the present invention may increase tumor cell sensitivity to TRAIL leading to enhanced cell death the clinical correlations of which are expected to be increased apoptotic activity in TRAIL resistant tumors improved clinical response increased response duration and ultimately enhanced patient survival rate. In support of this reduction in XIAP levels by in vitro antisense treatment has been shown to cause sensitization of resistant melanoma cells and renal carcinoma cells to TRAIL Chawla Sarkar et al. 2004 . The compounds of the present invention bind to IAPs and inhibit their interaction with caspases therein potentiating TRAIL induced apoptosis.

Compounds and compositions of the present invention also can be used to augment radiation therapy or radiotherapy i.e. the medical use of ionizing radiation as part of cancer treatment to control malignant cells. Although radiotherapy is often used as part of curative therapy it is occasionally used as a palliative treatment where cure is not possible and the aim is for symptomatic relief. Radiotherapy is commonly used for the treatment of tumors. It may be used as the primary therapy. It is also common to combine radiotherapy with surgery and or chemotherapy. The most common tumors treated with radiotherapy are breast cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer head neck cancers gynecological tumors bladder cancer and lymphoma. Radiation therapy is commonly applied just to the localized area involved with the tumor. Often the radiation fields also include the draining lymph nodes. It is possible but uncommon to give radiotherapy to the whole body or entire skin surface. Radiation therapy is usually given daily for up to 35 38 fractions a daily dose is a fraction . These small frequent doses allow healthy cells time to grow back repairing damage inflicted by the radiation. Three main divisions of radiotherapy are external beam radiotherapy or teletherapy brachytherapy or sealed source radiotherapy and unsealed source radiotherapy which are all suitable examples of treatment protocol in the present invention. The differences relate to the position of the radiation source external is outside the body while sealed and unsealed source radiotherapy has radioactive material delivered internally. Brachytherapy sealed sources are usually extracted later while unsealed sources are injected into the body.

Administration of the compounds and compositions of the present invention may occur prior to concurrently with or subsequent to the combination treatment protocol. A variety of administration routes are available. The particular mode selected will depend of course upon the particular chemotherapeutic drug selected the severity of the condition being treated and the dosage required for therapeutic efficacy. The methods of the invention generally speaking may be practiced using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable meaning any mode that produces effective levels of the active compounds without causing clinically unacceptable adverse effects. Such modes of administration include but are not limited to oral rectal topical nasal intradermal inhalation intra peritoneal or parenteral routes. The term parenteral includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular or infusion. Intravenous or intramuscular routes are particularly suitable for purposes of the present invention.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and the scope of the appended claims.

