---

title: Ranking search results by social relevancy
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing a search request including a user identifier corresponding to a first user and location data; identifying places in proximity to the location corresponding to the location data; accessing a social graph to compose based on the user identifier of the first user a set of second users associated with the first user in the social graph; accessing rating data for one or more of the places; identifying one or more of the second users associated with one or more elements of the rating data for one or more of the places; weighting the rating data based on affiliation coefficients of the second users associated with elements of the rating data for the places; and ranking the places based on a distance of each place from the location and the rating data as weighted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268865&OS=09268865&RS=09268865
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09268865
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
The present disclosure relates generally to location based social network services and more particularly to improving searches for locations within the vicinity of users.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system. A geo social networking system is a social networking system in which geographic services and capabilities are used to enable additional social interactions. User submitted location data or geo location techniques e.g. mobile phone position tracking can allow a geo social network to connect and coordinate users with local people or events that match their interests. For example users can check in to a place using a mobile client application by providing a name of a place or selecting a place from a pre established list of places . The geo social networking system among other things can record information about the user s presence at the place and possibly provide this information to other users of the geo social networking system.

Particular embodiments relate to location based services with enhanced searching functionality that considers social relevancy in searching for nearby places and analyzing ratings of nearby places. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can be generally defined by the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user. The privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

Social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to places. Places correspond to various physical locations such as restaurants bars train stations airports and the like. Some places may correspond to larger regions that themselves contain places such as a restaurant or a gate location in an airport. In one implementation each place can be maintained as a hub node in a social graph or other data structure maintained by the social networking system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171. Social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a browser hosted by a wired or wireless station such as a laptop desktop or mobile device. For example social networking system may serve web pages or other structured documents to users that request information about a place. In addition to user profile and place information the social networking system may track or maintain other information about the user. For example the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. For example users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile device of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile device and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given place may occur when a user is physically located at a place and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the place. As described below a user may select a place from a list of existing places near to the user s current location or create a new place. The user may also provide comments in a text string when checking in to a given place. The user may also identify one or more other users in connection with a check in such as friends of a user and associate them with the check in as well. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 574 614 which is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes describes a system that allows a first user to check in other users at a given place. An entry including the comment and a time stamp corresponding to the time the user checked in may be displayed to other users. For example a record of the user s check in activity may be stored in a database. Social networking system may select one or more records associated with check in activities of users at a given place and include such check in activity in web pages or other structured documents that correspond to a given place. For example social networking system may select the check in activity associated with the friends or other social contacts of a user that requests a page corresponding to a place. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 858 718 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes an example geo social networking system that can be used in connection with various embodiments of the present invention.

In particular embodiments location database may store geo location data identifying a real world geographic location of an object such as a mobile device associated with a check in. For example a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. For example a geographic location of a cell phone equipped with Wi Fi and GPS capabilities can be identified by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning and or GPS positioning.

In particular embodiments location database may store an information base of places where each place includes a name a geographic location and meta information. For example a place can be a local business a point of interest e.g. Union Square in San Francisco Calif. a college a city or a national park. For example a geographic location of a place e.g. a local coffee shop can be an address a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude or a reference to another place e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station . For example a geographic location of a place with a large area e.g. Yosemite National Park can be a shape e.g. a circle or a polygon approximating the boundary of the place and or a centroid i.e. geometric center of the shape. For example meta information of a place can include information identifying the user that initially created the place reviews ratings comments check in activity data and the like.

Places may be created by administrators of the system and or created by users of the system. For example a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly created place to be registered in location database . The creating user or other users may access a web page directed to the page and add additional information such as reviews comments and ratings for the place. In particular embodiments location database may store a user s location data. For example location database may store a user s check in activities. For example a user can create a place e.g. a new restaurant or coffee shop causing the social networking system to store the user created place in location database . For example a user can create a comment a review or a rating of a place causing the social networking system to store the user s comment review and rating of the place in location database . For example a user s rating of a place can be as simple as clicking a like button on a web page associated with the place or can be a quantitative measure like the star rating system used for rating restaurants. An example star rating system is the Michelin Guide rating system one star for a very good restaurant in its category two stars for excellent cooking and worth a detour and three starts for exceptional cuisine and worth the journey . For example a rating for a place can be based on number of positive comments reviews or negative comments reviews about the place. For example a place with 10 positive reviews can have a rating of 10 a place with 5 negative reviews can have a rating of 5 and a place with 5 positive reviews and 5 negative reviews can have a rating of 0.

In connection with creation of a place a check in or a search of nearby places in general a user can provide a text string describing a place such as a name and a geographic location to the social networking system. A geographic location can be a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude based on a positioning technology e.g. GPS cell tower triangulation or Wi Fi positioning and or an address. The social networking system may search location database in part on the geographic location provided by the user and the respective geographic locations of the places in the database and provide the user a list of places near the geographic location that match the text string completely or partially . However a place search of nearby places based on a distance from a user s current location can yield results that may or may not be relevant to the user. For example if a user is in San Francisco s Financial District neighborhood e.g. 100 Montgomery Street San Francisco Calif. and wants to search a nearby coffee shop a place search result may contain a random list of 10 coffee shops within walking distance. However a place search result may be more relevant to a user if the place search takes into account social graph information and activities of other users of the social network. As in the previous example the 10 coffee shops can be ranked according to the user s or the user s friends activity for example a number of times that the user had recently checked in at any of the 10 coffee shops or whether any of the 10 coffee shops is rated by one or more friends of the user e.g. like or 3 out of 5 starts . Particular embodiments below describe methods in improving search results by ranking search results based on social relevancy.

In particular embodiments the search process may access location database and identify nearby places . In particular embodiments the social networking system may access location database and identify one or more places that are within a threshold distance from the user s current location. For example the search process can access location database and identify places that are within one mile for the user s current location. In particular embodiments the search process may access location database and identify one or more nearby places wherein a place identifier e.g. a name a metadata value of each place matches the character string partially or completely. For example if a user wants to search for or check in to a nearby coffee shop the user can type coffee in a web page or a client application. The search process can return a list of nearby coffee shops e.g. Starbucks Coffee Peet s Coffee and Tea Dunkin Donuts etc.

In particular embodiments the search process may rank the identified nearby places by proximity of each identified place to the user s current location. In particular embodiments the social networking system may assign each identified place a proximity coefficient. For example a place can have a proximity coefficient of 1.0 if the place is within 500 feet from the user or a proximity coefficient of 0.75 if the place is between 500 feet to 1000 feet away from the user or a proximity coefficient of 0.5 if the place is between 1000 feet and one mile from the user. In particular embodiments the search process may initially rank the identified nearby places by proximity coefficients. In particular embodiments the social networking system may arrange the identified nearby places in a table sorted by proximity ranking illustrates an example of ranking places by proximity coefficients. In the example of the search process can arrange the identified nearby places in a table from the highest proximity coefficient closest to a user in geographic distance to the lowest proximity coefficient most distant from a user geographically .

In particular embodiments the search process may compose a friends list of the user requesting a place search . In particular embodiments the search process may receive a user identifier from the requesting user access user profile database and based on the user identifier compose a friends list by identifying users who are within a certain degree of separation in the requesting user s social network. For example a friends list can be composed of friends and friends of friends of a requesting user i.e. within two degrees of separation of the requesting user.

In particular embodiments the search process may rank users in the friends list by each user s affiliation with the requesting user or social proximity between each user in the friends list and the requesting user. In particular embodiments the search process may assign each user in the friends list an affiliation coefficient. For example the search process can assign an affiliation coefficient of 1.0 if a user in the friends list is the requesting user s parent or an affiliation coefficient of 0.9 if the user in the friends list frequently communicate with the requesting user or an affiliation coefficient of 0.7 if the user in the friends list is a friend of friend of the requesting user and the user and the requesting user went to the same college at the same time. Interactions between users on social networking system such as chats wall posts emails and the like can also be used in scoring affinities between users. A system for measuring user affinity is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed on Aug. 11 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. In particular embodiments the social networking system may rank each user of the friends list by affiliation coefficients. In particular embodiments the social networking system may arrange users in the friends list in a table sorted by affiliation coefficients. illustrates an example of ranking users by affiliation coefficients. In the example of B the social networking system can arrange the users in the friends list in a table from the highest affiliation coefficient closet to a user in social relationship to the lowest affiliation coefficient most distant from a user in social relationship .

In particular embodiments the search process may access location database and compile rating data for the identified nearby places . In addition the search process may access external or third party systems that contain rating information submitted by users such as the service provided by Yelp Inc. of San Francisco Calif. In particular embodiments rating data for an identified nearby place may comprise a set of one or more rating values and a source for each rating values. For example rating values can range from a highest number for best rating e.g. 1.0 for best in town to a lowest number for lowest rating e.g. 0.1 for avoid . For example a source can be an individual user who authors the rating values or a source can be an entity or enterprise that authors the rating values e.g. Sunset magazine . In particular embodiments the search process may arrange rating data for each identified place in a table comprising a name for an identified place one or more rating values and a source for each rating values. illustrate an example of tables of rating data. In some implementations rating data may also be filtered from the analysis to exclude older or out of date ratings.

The search process can improve the quality of search results by incorporating the social relationship information of the requesting user. In particular embodiments the search process may adjust the rating data by the friends list for the nearby place search . In particular embodiments the search process may identify one or more sources of the rating data that are on the friends list. In particular embodiments the search process may adjust the rating data by mapping affiliation coefficients of the one or more sources that are on the friends list to the rating data. illustrates an example of mapping friends to rating data. In the example of the search process can copy affiliation coefficients to tables of rating data for the user user and user as those users are on the friends list. In particular embodiments if a source in rating data is not on the friends list then the search process may select a default value as an affiliation coefficient for the source. In the example of user name C name D name X name F and name E are not on the friends list then the search process can set a default affiliation coefficient value e.g. 0.1 in the tables for rating data. The default value can vary based on the type of source with more trusted sources having a better value.

In particular embodiments the search process may rank the identified nearby places by the friends list rating data and a distance between each identified place and the requesting user s current location . In particular embodiments the search process may rank the identified nearby places by calculating a weighted average value in rating data for each identified nearby place based on the proximity coefficient and the affiliation coefficient. For example weighted average rating proximity coefficient average rating number affiliation coefficient . As in the example of for sushi 1 weighted average rating 1.0 0.2 0.9 1.0 0.7 0.3 0.1 3 0.30 for sushi 2 weighted average rating 1.0 1.0 0.1 1.0 0.9 0.3 0.1 3 0.34 and for sushi 3 weighted average rating 0.75 0.5 0.6 0.3 0.1 1.0 0.1 3 0.11. Thus the nearby places can be ranked from the highest to the lowest in the weighted average rating sushi 1 sushi 2 and sushi 3.

In additional to social relationship e.g. the friends list and geographic proximity other factors such as recency of a rating value can also be considered in calculating an average value in the rating number. In particular embodiments the search process may rank the identified nearby places by calculating a weighted average value in rating number for each identified nearby place based on the proximity coefficient the affiliation coefficient and recency for each rating number. For example the social networking system can set a rating value to zero i.e. not considering the particular rating at all if the particular rating number is more than 3 years old e.g. the rating number was authored more than 3 years ago .

In particular embodiments the search process may present the ranked list of identified nearby places to the requesting user . In particular embodiments the search process may present to the requesting user the ranked list of identified nearby places sorted by ranking e.g. ordering by the weighted average rating from high to low . In particular embodiments the social networking system may present to the requesting user the ranked list of identified nearby places sorted by affiliation e.g. presenting first a nearby place with most ratings authored by the requesting user s friends . In particular embodiments the social networking system may present to the requesting user the ranked list of identified nearby places sorted by categories and the requesting user may view one or more places in the ranked list of identified nearby places by selecting a particular category. For example if the requesting user searches sushi the social networking system can present the ranked list by restaurant categories e.g. Japanese California Fusion Bar etc. and the requesting user can select and view one of the categories.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

