---

title: Uniformly distributed lead zirconate titanate strain sensor
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a strain sensor that locates and quantifies the strain energy from a structure. The strain sensor has a lead zirconate titanate wafer with a circular shape such that the shape does not directionally restrict the signal of the sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08174166&OS=08174166&RS=08174166
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08174166
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100301
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to strain sensors. In particular the present invention is directed to a uniform lead zirconate titanate sensor that locates and quantifies the strain energy from a structure.

Currently technology is being pursued that will aid the development of artificially intelligent structures or devices. These structures or devices that are considered intelligent are capable of detecting and recording parameters associated with their environment by assessing physical properties such as temperature pressure humidity seismic and mechanical vibration and optical imaging. Once the physical parameters are detected a given algorithm within the sensor interprets the measured parameters of the surroundings and the structure or device responds to the stimulus as programmed.

One application for the use of artificially intelligent structures is to develop boat and ship hulls with such capabilities. For example hull array technology is the concept of producing submarines with hulls containing integrated sensors that can passively investigate the submarine s surroundings. The integrated hull array sensors detect acoustic energy found within a body of water in which the submarine is traveling. The received signals can alert the submarine to impending dangers such as torpedoes land mines or other submarines. Non threatening acoustic emissions are also present in an open sea environment generated by marine life. The interpretation of the measured signals by the sensors allows the vessel to listen to its surroundings in multiple directions and distinguish between various acoustic emissions.

To accomplish integrated hull array technology what is needed is a uniform lead zirconate titanate sensor that locates and quantifies the strain energy from a structure and is capable of being embedded into a composite material. A standard lead zirconate titanate sensor has a directional dependence on the strain measurement as a result of the rectangular shape of the lead zirconate titanate wafer portion of the sensor. What is needed is a uniform lead zirconate titanate sensor that is not directionally dependent because the lead zirconate titanate wafer has a constant radius. The constant radius creates a uniform strain despite the direction of the wave front contact point on the lead zirconate titanate sensor. Therefore a uniform lead zirconate titanate wafer unlike a rectangular one registers the same voltage reading regardless of the path of the strain wave.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to present a design for a uniform lead zirconate titanate sensor that is not directionally dependant because it has a constant radius.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of a strain sensor that locates and quantifies the strain energy from a structure. The strain sensor has a lead zirconate titanate wafer with a circular shape such that the shape does not directionally restrict the signal of the sensor.

A standard prior art strain sensor such as the one illustrated in operates in the following manner a piezo electric material deflects a wave front and creates a voltage difference between the top and bottom portion of the piezo electric wafer. In a preferred embodiment the piezo electric material is a composite wafer of lead zirconate and titanate. The lead zirconate titanate wafer is rectangular in shape. Disposed over the surface of the lead zirconate titanate wafer are wire traces capable of carrying an electric current. The wire traces carry the voltage out of the lead zirconate titanate wafer and into a pin connector joined to the end of the wafer. The lead zirconate titanate wafer and wire traces are covered with polyimide film that serves as an overall protective layer to prevent corrosion and contamination. The voltage generated by the sensor can be measured by any standard data acquisition system.

The strain sensor design of the present invention is one with a circular piezo electric wafer portion having a constant radius thereby making it uniform. In a preferred embodiment the piezo electric wafer is a composite of lead zirconate and titanate. Disposed over the surface of the lead zirconate titanate wafer are wire traces capable of carrying an electric current. The wire traces carry the voltage out of the lead zirconate titanate wafer and into a pin connector joined to the end of the wafer. The lead zirconate titanate wafer and wire traces are covered with polyimide film that serves as an overall protective layer to prevent corrosion and contamination. The voltage generated by the sensor can be measured by any standard data acquisition system. The circular shape of the piezo electric wafer does not directionally restrict a signal of the sensor . The constant radius creates a uniform strain despite the direction of the wave front contact point on the lead zirconate titanate sensor . Therefore a uniform lead zirconate titanate wafer unlike a prior art rectangular one 12 registers the same voltage reading regardless of the path of the strain wave.

Referring to there is illustrated several features of the uniform distributed lead zirconate titanate strain sensor that are new and innovative. These features attest to the advantages of the design. For example the standard prior art strain sensor that is directionally dependent generates a signal that is more difficult to process due to the direction of the wave front contact. The point of contact can create errors in both time of arrival and amplitude because the leading edge of the signal is critical in deducing these parameters. The uniform distributed lead zirconate titanate strain sensor of the present invention does not directionally restrict the signal. Rather than having varying strain at the various contact points with wave fronts that a standard rectangular strain sensor has due to its inherent aspect ratio the errors associated with a uniform strain sensor are constant due to its constant radius.

Referring to there is illustrated a lead zirconate titanate wafer with wave fronts impinging on the surface and the strain wave energy generated by the wave fronts. The higher frequency signals are more susceptible to averaging out the strain wave energy experienced by the lead zirconate titanate wafer.

The advantage of the present invention is that it will retain the structural ruggedness thermal properties and thin design of prior art lead zirconate titanate sensors while not being directionally dependant because it has a constant radius.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

