---

title: Broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power splitter
abstract: A broadband power splitter and phase shifter having a plurality of transmission lines, a 3 db, zero degree power splitter for splitting a signal, an open quadrifilar spiral for receiving a first signal and reflecting power, a modified, open quadrifilar spiral for receiving a second output after a delay and for reflecting power, and wherein a difference between the reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified, open quadrifilar spiral in conjunction with a delay provides a constant phase shift over a broad range of frequencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08427387&OS=08427387&RS=08427387
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08427387
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to transmission lines and more particularly to broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power splitters.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 891 hereby incorporated by reference describes spiral transmission lines. This patent describes two spirals that are crossed to form two crossed transmission lines comprising elements for feeding and matching a quadrifilar helix. The two transmission lines are balanced and are of constant or smoothly changing characteristic impedance Z with length except for the last of a turn of any given element on the outermost circumference. For a given transmission line length the given filar has filars on both of its sides. However for the last turn the given filar has only one opposite filar which is on the side closest to the feed points the central region of the spiral. This increases the Zof the transmission line along this turn causing a mismatch.

The mismatch shows up as a small increased antenna mismatch when the transmission line is used to feed and match the antenna. If the width of the filar is increased in the area of the turn to increase capacitance to the opposite filar the Zbetween the turn of filar and its opposite transmission line filar decreases back to normal. But now the capacitance between the opposite filar and its two surrounding opposite filars which includes the widened turn of filar becomes larger than normal resulting in its Zbecoming lower than normal. Thus this attempt at fixing the first mismatch of the turns of filar creates a second mismatch.

The present invention features a broadband power device in the form of a phase shifting power splitter. A circuit in the broadband power device splits an incoming signal into two equal outputs. The first output is received by an open quadrifilar spiral and the second output is received by a modified open quadrifilar spiral. The open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral reflect their received powers. The phase difference between the power reflected from the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral with some delay is broadband or occurs over a large bandwidth e.g. 2 1 .

A circuit as illustrated in according to the present invention incorporates an open quadrifilar spiral and a modified open quadrifilar spiral into a broadband spiral transmission line power device . The broadband spiral transmission line power device according to the present invention splits an incoming signal into two signals separated by a phase that can be varied roughly from 0 to 180 degrees.

The open quadrifilar spiral is known in the prior art and has four filars and . A given pair of radially opposite filars form a spiral transmission line thus with four filars separated by 90 between adjacent filars two spiral transmission lines separated by 90 are formed. Filars and form transmission line T. Filars and form transmission line T. The quadrifilar has used feed points for transmission lines T. Feed points for transmission line T are not used. The open quadrifilar spiral is approximately eight inches in width and the filars and have a width of 0.975 of the available width at the feed points .

The modified open quadrifilar spiral along with some transmission line delay according to the present invention is used as a phase shifter when referenced to the first open quadrifilar spiral . The modified open quadrifilar spiral increases the capacitance between its filars.

The modified open quadrifilar spiral has four filars wherein all of the four filars overlap their adjacent respective filars for some part of their last of a turn.

Each pair of radially opposite filars i.e. and constitutes a transmission line T and T respectively. Ideally the impedance of a normal open transmission line is an open circuit. For the unmodified spiral however it is a locus whose reflection coefficient phase oscillates a small amount with frequency about a true open at lower frequencies. At higher frequencies the locus starts to settle in on a constant value of phase the delay becomes constant . There are some radiation losses for either quadrifilar spiral at higher frequencies because either quadrifilar spiral starts to become electrically large.

The following description of the modified open quadrifilar spiral is limited to one filar of the spiral however the same modifications are made to the other 3 filars. A given filar of transmission line T of the modified open quadrifilar spiral has its last turn modified as identified as portion C. Filar of the modified turn C is surrounded by opposite filars and of the transmission line T . An end of one of the filars of the transmission line T has an initial width of 0.18 of the available width which originally tapered down to 0 width at the end of the filar. The tapered section was removed. The other filar of the transmission line T is . Filar of transmission line T is inserted between C and filar of transmission line T . An overlap F is an area of overlap between the first filar of the transmission line T and the filar of the transmission line T . The filars do not touch. There is a space between the two filars that in practice is realized by insertion of a thin layer of dielectric between the two filars. The result is a distributed capacitance between the two filars in the overlap area F. The spiral is fed across the two filars and at the center of the spiral at B.

An unexpected result occurs with the modified open quadrifilar spiral . The roughly constant open circuit impedance locus before modification i.e. when the quadrifilar spiral is in the form as illustrated in became after modification a roughly constant impedance locus at a reflection coefficient value of 0 j after a change in the impedance reference plane location. This demonstrates a broadband phase shift of ninety degrees. Varying the length of the overlap allowed other broadband phases. For instance having no overlap gave 0 degrees. Larger overlaps gave phases larger than 90 degrees approaching 180 degrees.

Referring again to the circuit incorporating the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral into the broadband spiral transmission line power device is shown. The broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power divider device splits the incoming signal into two signals separated by roughly ninety or other degrees. The broadband spiral transmission line power device receives the incoming signal at an input . The incoming signal travels from the input to a 3 db power splitter . The 3 db power splitter is well known in the art. The power splitter splits the incoming signal into a first output and a second output .

The first output travels through a directional coupler to a balun to the open quadrifilar spiral . Reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral proceeds back through the balun and into the directional coupler . A portion of the reflected power is received at a coupled port of the directional coupler .

The second output travels through a directional coupler through a delay and then to a balun to the modified open quadrifilar spiral . An enlarged view of the modified open quadrifilar spiral is shown in . Reflected power from the modified open quadrifilar spiral proceeds back through the balun through the delay and into the directional coupler . A portion of the reflected power is received at a coupled port of the directional coupler which has a 90 or other degree phase shift relative to coupled port of the directional coupler .

The delay is a removal of a length of the connecting transmission line between directional coupler and balun needed for moving the reference plane a small distance beyond the overlap area F at the end of filar in overlap area C as if the end of the filar extended the small distance.

The difference in signals between the coupled port and the coupled port is a broadband 90 or other degrees. Specifically there is an approximately 90 or other degree phase difference between the reflected signals of the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral plus delay providing an approximately constant phase shift over a broad range of frequencies. The open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral before modification have the same original dimensions to ensure broadband nature so that the impedance with frequency about the open at the end of open quadrifilar spiral occurs in the same manner as with the modified spiral before it is modified i.e. one starts with identical spirals .

The broadband spiral transmission line phase shifting power divider device illustrates a means for creating a broadband ninety or other degree power splitter. However it has significant power loss due to the use of directional couplers. Referring to in an alternative embodiment the directional coupler and the directional coupler are replaced with circulators and so that all of the reflected power from the open quadrifilar spiral and the modified open quadrifilar spiral end up at the reflection transfer ports and of the circulators corresponding to the coupled port and the coupled port respectively of the directional couplers.

In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

