---

title: System for distributed personal device management
abstract: A personal device management server device comprises a processing device, first and second communication interfaces, and a memory. The first communication interface is coupled with the processing device and is arranged to communicate with a wireless communication network. The second communication interface is coupled with the processing device and is arranged to communicate with a client device. The memory is coupled with the processing device and arranged to store instructions comprising a personal device management system. The personal device management system is arranged to control allocation of one or more components of a communication service with the individual client device elements via the second communication interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880680&OS=08880680&RS=08880680
owner: 
number: 08880680
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100211
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Application filed Feb. 13 2009 having Ser. No. 61 152 411 titled System for Distributed Personal Device Management and by the instant inventors the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Currently end user devices do not have knowledge of other devices owned by the end user and do not share services components or elements of the device with other devices. Services if any are usually tied to silo networks.

For clarity and ease of understanding only a single device manager wireless network and wireless device are discussed. In at least some embodiments there may be more than one device manager wireless network and or wireless device. Additionally in at least some embodiments there may be more than one predetermined region with respect to a device manager. Further additional client devices of varying size shape and functionality may be configured to communicate with a device manager.

In at least some embodiments a service is defined as a set of events performed by different client devices and or hardware components and or service components of a client device within predetermined region and communicating with device manager .

Client devices and are example client devices according to differing embodiments of client devices. The number and type of H W attribute set and service attribute set content vary in accordance with one or more different embodiments.

For example client device comprises a H W attribute set including a display a keyboard and a speaker and a service attribute set including a display text service a display image service a play audio service and a receive key input service. An example client device may be a handheld or portable computer system having a display keyboard and speaker while lacking an audio input device.

Example client device comprises a H W attribute set including a touch display a speaker a microphone and a camera and a service attribute set including a display text service a display image service a play audio service a receive touch input service a receive audio input service and a receive video input service. An example client device may be a tablet based device having a touch screen display a speaker a microphone and a camera while lacking a keyboard.

Example client device comprises a H W attribute set including a display a speaker and a heart rate monitor and a service attribute set including a display text service a display image service a play audio service and a receive monitor data service. An example client device may be a wristwatch sized device having a display a speaker and a heart rate monitor while lacking a keyboard camera and microphone.

In operation device manager initially communicates with the client devices and receives information regarding the corresponding H W attribute set and service attribute set content of the client devices. Subsequent to the initial communication device manager is able to communicate with one or more client devices in accordance with the received information to make use of the specific hardware and or service of the client device.

Wireless network comprises a wireless communication system transporting communication between wireless device and device manager . Additionally wireless network transports communication with wired or other wireless networks. In at least some embodiments wireless network transports communication to from one or more packet switched wired and or wireless networks such as the Internet. Wireless network in at least some embodiments includes wireless service operators providing wireless connectivity between wireless device and other wireless devices connected with wireless network .

In at least some embodiments wireless network comprises a cellular communication network e.g. a code division multiple access CDMA based a time division multiple access TDMA based a global system for mobile GSM based a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WIMAX based 1xEV Data Optimized 1xEV DO 1xEV Data Voice 1xEV DV Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wideband CDMA WCDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS a wireless local area network WLAN or other wide area wireless network protocol.

Wireless network stores identifying information related to wireless device and device manager . In at least some embodiments wireless network stores service information related to wireless device and device manager . In at least some embodiments wireless network stores identifying information related to a user of each of wireless device and device manager .

Wireless device also referred to as legacy wireless device includes portable wireless computing devices e.g. portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices which are small lightweight and easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks e.g. wireless network .

Device manager is a processing based device for managing one or more client devices in communication with the device manager and the communication of the client devices with wireless network . In at least some embodiments device manager is a user transportable device configured to manage communication with and communicate with wireless network . In at least some embodiments device manager is small enough to be carried in one hand of a user or in a pocket of a user.

In at least some embodiments device manager receives the registration of client devices and elements of the client devices and or new services defined by at least one of the client devices. For example in at least some embodiments a voice service provided to device manager from wireless network may comprise two components a voice path for transmission of an audio signal and a caller identifier ID information to identify a caller to a user. In accordance with the foregoing example an embodiment of device manager is able to direct the components of the voice service to one or more elements of one or more client devices. In at least some further embodiments the new services registered are defined based on capabilities of the device manager.

In at least some embodiments device manager is configured to control client devices for administrative purposes e.g. initial registration configuration preference management adding removing client devices etc. In at least some embodiments the protocol for communication between a client device and device manager comprises a capability for the device manager to control at least a portion of user functionality of the client device. In at least some embodiments the protocol for communication between a client device and device manager comprises a capability for the device manager to control at least all user functionality of the client device. In at least some embodiments a client device and in particular the user interface of the client device is used for administrative control of device manager

In at least some embodiments device manager stores information related to hardware and or software capabilities of one or more client devices. In at least some further embodiments device manager stores the information related to capabilities to one or more client devices. In at least some other embodiments device manager shares the information related to capabilities with one or more client devices and or one or more other device managers.

In at least some embodiments device manager manages a client device based on one or more user defined parameters. In at least some embodiments device manager determines a policy management service with respect to client devices based on one or more user defined parameters.

In at least some embodiments device manager selects from among different services provided by one or more client devices based on which client devices are active and or based on one or more user defined parameters.

In at least some embodiments device manager stores and or manages information related to communication subscription information. For example a wireless device may be subscribed to a particular communication service or set of services provided by a particular wireless carrier e.g. wireless network. The particular wireless device subscription information is stored by device manager . In at least some embodiments device manager manages whether one or another of a particular wireless device subscription is active. In at least some embodiments user subscription information similar to wireless device subscription information may be stored and or managed by device manager .

In at least some embodiments device manager may store and manage subscription information related to a single user having two subscriptions e.g. related to a home or personal subscription and to a business or office subscription. In at least some other embodiments device manager may store and manage subscription information related to client devices registered with the device manager. In at least some embodiments a single client device may be in communication with more than one device manager during overlapping and or non overlapping time periods. In such a scenario device manager controls the services and information and storage thereof with respect to the client device.

In at least some embodiments device manager stores and manages a wake up schedule for connected client devices. For example if a particular service provided by a client device comprises a metering application device manager may cause the client device to wake up at least once per week in order to obtain the metering data.

Client devices communicate with device manager using a predetermined protocol during the time period in which the client devices are within predetermined range of the device manager. In at least some embodiments the client devices provide overlapping and or non overlapping functionality to device manager . In at least some embodiments the client devices are small enough to be carried in one hand of a user or in the pocket of a user. In at least some embodiments each client device is carried on a person also carrying device manager with which each client device is in communication.

In at least some embodiments predetermined range comprises a distance of from a meter or two to a few meters e.g. 1 10 meters depending on the particular communication mechanism used. In at least some embodiments an optical radio frequency or magnetic based communication mechanism may be used for near field communications NFC such as BLUETOOTH RFID etc. In at least some embodiments predetermined range comprises an exclusively NFC based range.

In at least some embodiments predetermined range comprises a distance greater than and or different from that associated with NFC described above e.g. greater than a few meters. In accordance with such embodiments a wireless communication mechanism e.g. optical radio frequency or magnetic based communication mechanism such as wireless networking e.g. WIFI may be used for communication between device manager and the client devices. In accordance with such embodiments client devices may be in communication and determined to be within predetermined range if the client devices are within a network reachable range of device manager. For example a client device may be in communication with device manager via a network e.g. wireless local area network WLAN connection.

As described above an exemplary set of client devices comprises a monitor device a tablet based device a wireless device a touch screen based wireless device and a positioning device . Client devices may comprise devices having only user input only output e.g. display or a combination thereof. Other functionality and type of client devices are within the scope of one or more embodiments of the present invention. In at least some embodiments client devices communicate with other client devices wireless network and or wireless device via device manager .

As an exemplary client device monitor device is a heart rate monitor for monitoring the rate at which the heart of a user beats. The heart beat rate information is displayed on a display of monitor device and transmitted to device manager . In at least some embodiments monitor device does not include a display and solely transmits the heart beat rate information to device manager . In such an embodiment device manager applies user defined preferences to select another client device on which to display and or store the heart beat rate information. In at least some embodiments device manager locally stores the received heart beat rate information. In at least some other embodiments device manager stores the received heart beat rate information in another client device.

In at least some other embodiments different types of information may be monitored and transmitted to device manager . In at least some embodiments device manager may communicate with monitor device to specify a particular reporting schedule by which the monitor device determines whether and or at what time to transmit the monitored information.

As an exemplary client device tablet based device is a processor based device such as a tablet computer for receiving commands and input from a user and transmitting information to the user. Tablet based device comprises a touch or stylus based input mechanism for receiving input from a user which also at least partially provides the display mechanism for transmitting information to the user. Tablet based device comprises a communication interface for communicating with device manager during a time period in which the tablet based device is within predetermined range .

As an exemplary client device wireless device is a wireless device similar to wireless device . Wireless device includes portable wireless computing devices e.g. portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices which are small lightweight and easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks e.g. wireless network .

In particular wireless device communicates voice and data packets over wireless network via communication of the packets using device manager . In at least some embodiments wireless device communicates voice and data packets during a time period in which wireless device is within predetermined range . In at least some further embodiments wireless device communicates voice and data packets over wireless network without device manager during a time period in which wireless device is outside predetermined range .

As an exemplary client device touch screen based wireless device is a wireless device similar to wireless device . Touch screen based wireless device comprises a touch screen interface similar to tablet based device .

As an exemplary client device positioning device is a positioning and or navigation device which receives positioning signals e.g. from a global positioning system GPS or other signal based system transmitted from satellites or ground stations in order to calculate a position of the device with respect to the transmitting system. Positioning device communicates voice and or data packets over wireless network via device manager . For example In at least some embodiments positioning device may comprise a communication interface and functionality enabling use of the positioning device as a user input output device for telephonic communication e.g. by providing a speakerphone capability. In at least some other embodiments positioning device displays information related to a current or expected location of the positioning device based on retrieved information from wireless network via device manager . In at least some embodiments positioning device is able to make and receive audio communications via providing a user interface and communication path to device manager .

In at least some embodiments device manager classifies one or more client devices e.g. according to capabilities such as hardware and or service functionalities of the client device i.e. H W attribute set and or service attribute set and maintains a data store of each client device capability e.g. in a database.

Client device comprises a processing device an optional input output I O device a memory an optional wide area network WAN communication interface I F a near area network NAN communication I F and an optional device specific I F each communicatively coupled with a bus . Processing device comprises a processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other instruction executing interpreting hardware based system. In at least some embodiments processing device may comprise a virtual or software based instruction executing system.

Optional I O device is coupled to bus and may comprise an input device an output device and or a combined input output device for enabling user interaction. An input device may comprise for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball trackpad and or cursor direction keys for communicating information and commands to processing device . An output device may comprise for example a display a printer a voice synthesizer a light etc. for communicating information to a user. In at least some embodiments I O device may comprise a serial and or parallel connection mechanism for enabling the transfer of one or more of files and or commands.

Memory also referred to as a computer readable medium or computer readable memory is coupled to bus for storing data and or information and instructions to be executed by processing device . Memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processing device . Memory may also comprise a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processing device . Memory may comprise static and or dynamic devices for storage e.g. optical magnetic and or electronic media and or a combination thereof.

In at least some embodiments memory comprises a set of instructions for execution by processing device which when executed by the processing device cause client device to perform one or more specific functionalities embodied in device specific functionality . For example a particular client device such as a tablet based device may comprise a handwriting recognition functionality. In at least some embodiments device specific functionality comprises one or more services executed by client device and made available for use to device manager .

Optional WAN communication I F is coupled to bus and communicates data and or voice packets with wireless network during a time period in which client device is outside predetermined range . In at least some embodiments WAN communication I F is a cellular communication interface a high speed data network interface or other data and or voice network interface.

NAN communication I F is coupled to bus and communicates data and or voice packets with one or more of the client devices within predetermined range . In at least some embodiments NAN communication I F is a near field communication mechanism e.g. an optical radio frequency or magnetic based communication mechanism usable for communication within a predetermined range . Exemplary mechanisms comprise BLUETOOTH WIFI RFID etc.

Client device also comprises in at least some embodiments an optional device specific I F . In at least some embodiments device specific I F may be a device specific module directly connected with bus . For example monitor device such as a heart rate monitor type device comprises a device specific I F or module for monitoring the heart rate of a user wearing the device e.g. via a contact based pulse detecting system.

In at least one embodiment device manager stores user and or device based subscription information for enabling the communication of data and or voice packets with wireless network . In at least some embodiments device manager is the sole storage location for such user and or device based subscription information. In such a device manager based subscription information storage embodiment client devices are able to access services provided by wireless network solely via device manager .

In at least some embodiments device manager is a separate device from the client devices and in particular wireless devices such as wireless device and touch screen based wireless device and provides the sole manner of enabling communication between the client devices and wireless network .

In at least some embodiments the functionality described herein with respect to device manager may be incorporated into a single device such as wireless device .

Device manager comprises a processing device an input output I O device a memory a wide area network WAN communication interface I F and a near area network NAN communication I F each communicatively coupled with a bus . Processing device comprises a processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other instruction executing interpreting hardware based system. In at least some embodiments processing device may comprise a virtual or software based instruction executing system.

I O device is coupled to bus and may comprise an input device an output device and or a combined input output device for enabling user interaction. An input device may comprise for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball trackpad and or cursor direction keys for communicating information and commands to processing device . An output device may comprise for example a display a printer a voice synthesizer a light etc. for communicating information to a user. In at least some embodiments I O device may comprise a serial and or a parallel connection mechanism for enabling the transfer of one or more of files and or commands.

Returning to memory also referred to as a computer readable medium or computer readable memory is coupled to bus for storing data and information e.g. parameters comprising predefined parameters and user defined parameters and instructions to be executed by processing device . Memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processing device . Memory may also comprise a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processing device . Memory may comprise static and or dynamic devices for storage e.g. optical magnetic and or electronic media and or a combination thereof.

In at least some embodiments device manager comprises a separate static storage device as described above.

WAN communication I F is coupled to bus and communicates data and or voice packets with wireless network . In at least some embodiments WAN communication I F is a cellular communication interface a high speed data network interface or other data and or voice network interface.

NAN communication I F is coupled to bus and communicates data and or voice packets with one or more of the client devices within predetermined range . In at least some embodiments NAN communication I F is a near field communication mechanism e.g. an optical radio frequency or magnetic based communication mechanism usable for communication within a predetermined range . Exemplary mechanisms comprise BLUETOOTH WIFI RFID etc.

Memory comprises one or more sets of instructions which when executed by processing device cause the processing device to perform one or more steps of functionality. Memory comprises a set of executable instructions comprising a personal device management system and a set of parameters e.g. user defined and or predefined parameters for access and modification by PDMS .

Services management functionality comprises at least a service management module and a subscription management module . Services management functionality comprises functionality which when executed by processing device causes the processing device to perform one or more operations at a device manager level and or in communication with wireless network .

Device management functionality comprises at least a discovery module an operation module a management module and a administration module . Device management functionality comprises functionality which when executed by processing device causes the processing device to perform one or more operations in communication with one or more client devices. In at least some embodiments device management functionality may comprise performing operations in communication with one or more client devices and wireless network .

Service management module comprises a set of instructions for defining and interacting with one or more client devices regarding the set of services that device manager may perform with respect to a wireless network and or a client device.

Subscription management module comprises a set of instructions for managing the user and or device based subscription with respect to wireless network . In at least one embodiment device manager may store more than one subscription with respect to one or more wireless networks and execution of subscription management module causes the device manager to determine which subscription s are active at a particular time. In at least some embodiments the determination of which subscription s are active is determined based on at least one or more parameters stored in parameters of memory .

Discovery module comprises a set of instructions for discovering a client device after the client device is moved within predetermined range with respect to device manager .

Operation module comprises a set of instructions for registering a client device with device manager . Operation module receives a set of client device dependent attributes and capabilities for storage in memory . Operation module also enables a client device to register a new set of services at least in some embodiments in conjunction with a set of capabilities of device manager . For example operation module comprises a set of instructions for receiving and storing hardware and or software capability information received from one or more client devices.

Management module comprises a set of instructions for managing the communication of data and or voice packets to from one or more client devices based on one or more parameters stored in memory . In at least some embodiments the one or more parameters comprise user defined and or predefined parameters. In at least some embodiments management module enables device manager to control a client device and in at least some embodiments the device manager controls operation of a client device to the exclusion of user interaction with the client device.

In at least some embodiments management module arbitrates services for provision among more than one client device. For example depending on the capability of particular client devices connected with device manager the device manager via execution of management module determines which services are provided to which client devices. In at least some embodiments management module arbitrates among more than one client device depending on which client devices are active and positioned within predetermined range .

Administration module comprises a set of instructions for terminating use of a particular client device. In at least some embodiments a client device may store be used to store data and or information as a result of user use of the client device or as a result of device manager communication with the client device e.g. downloading of contact information. In order to prevent unauthorized access to the stored information administration module enables device manager to access the client device and remove stored information based on at least one of user indication of non use of the device or a predetermined expiration time stored in parameters of memory .

The flow begins at functionality wherein a new service interrupt is received by device manager . Device manager receives the service interrupt from wireless network e.g. the wireless network transmits information to the device manager according to a particular service to which a user of the device manager may be subscribed. The flow proceeds to functionality .

Responsive to receipt of the new service interrupt by device manager the device manager retrieves the service definition corresponding to the perceived service interrupt. In at least some embodiments device manager retrieves the service definition from a service definition database stored in memory . The retrieved service definition specifies a set of attributes i.e. hardware attributes set and or service attribute set of a client device needed to be able to handle the received service. In at least some embodiments the received service interrupt comprises the service definition within the interrupt.

If a corresponding service definition does not exist the service routing method ends and or returns to an idle state awaiting a new service interrupt. If the corresponding service definition exists the flow proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager determines whether there is a current client device able to satisfy the identified service definition corresponding to the received service interrupt. That is device manager determines whether a client device within predetermined region comprises a hardware attribute set and or a service attribute set meeting the specified needs of the service definition. If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow proceeds to functionality wherein device manager assigns elements from at least one device to satisfy the service definition. In at least some embodiments device manager assigns one or more of hardware and or service attributes of a particular client device to receive at least a portion of the service corresponding to the received service interrupt. And at least some embodiments device manager assigns elements based on predefined user preferences regarding client devices and or services. In at least some embodiments the predefined user preferences are stored in memory .

The flow then proceeds to functionality and the service routing methods ends and or returns to an idle state awaiting a new service interrupt.

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow proceeds to functionality and the service routing method ends and or returns to an idle state awaiting a new service interrupt.

The flow begins at functionality wherein a particular service is being handled by device manager in conjunction with at least one client device referred to in this example as the first client device . For example device manager in conjunction with wireless device is handling a particular service e.g. a voice call from wireless network . That is device manager is communicating voice packets between wireless device and wireless network in order to enable user using the wireless device to talk with another user via the wireless network. In at least some embodiments device manager may be handling the service in conjunction with more than one client device. Further in at least some other embodiments device manager may allocate portions of the service between more than one client device.

The flow proceeds to functionality responsive to the first client device de registering from use by device manager . For example the first client device may be powered off assigned to another service and or removed from communication with device manager . During execution of functionality device manager removes the first client device from assignment with the particular service. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager determines whether the required elements from the de registered device are supported by other active devices i.e. whether another client device comprises the necessary hardware and or service attribute set to handle the service. In at least some embodiments device manager determines whether another client device element e.g. one or more hardware and or service attributes of a client device are able to take over for the de registered client device by accessing a database e.g. stored in memory which stores client device elements i.e. hardware and or service attributes. In at least some embodiments the database may also store user defined preferences corresponding to the particular client device and or client device elements. For example a particular client device element may be preferred for use by a user with respect to one or more of a hardware and or service attribute. In the given scenario for example the user may prefer to use a client device having the largest screen size for a particular service. In another example the user may prefer to use a client device having better audio input or output capabilities with respect to other client devices. Device manager in at least some embodiments constantly updates the database with information about the client devices and consults the database to determine if a particular preferred client device or device element is registered and if so a service may be routed from an existing device element to the preferred device element.

If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow proceeds to functionality wherein device manager transitions support of at least a portion of the service previously handled by the first client device. In at least some embodiments device manager transitions a service from one client device to one other client device. In at least some embodiments device manager transitions a service from one client device to more than one other client device e.g. based on one or more predefined user preferences with respect to the service and the one or more client devices determined in functionality . The flow then proceeds to end and the determined client device or client devices handle the service.

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow proceeds to functionality and device manager stores data from the service intended to be handled by the first client device in memory . The flow then proceeds to functionality wherein device manager searches e.g. via NAN communication I F within predetermined region for another client device able to handle the service. In at least some embodiments functionality differs from functionality in that the determination of functionality is performed with respect to client devices which are active and currently in communication with device manager whereas functionality is performed with respect to client devices which are active and not currently in communication with the device manager. If the result of functionality is successful the flow proceeds to end and the discovered client device or client devices handle the service. If the result of functionality is not successful the flow proceeds to end and device manager continues to store received data related to the service in memory . In at least some embodiments device manager continues to store received data related to the service until another client device is found.

The particular service i.e. the voice call received from network comprises two service components i.e. service component A e.g. caller identifier ID information and service component B e.g. a voice path. In accordance with the given scenario device manager e.g. based on user preferences and or client device capabilities directs service component B of the particular service from network to client device A and service component A to client device B . Thus the wireless headset handles the voice path component and the caller ID information is handled by the handset.

In accordance with at least some embodiments a service and or a service component e.g. service component B voice path is assigned to be owned by one or more of device manager and or client devices e.g. device manager client device A client device B . Device manager determines which device owns the service or service component based on at least one of user preferences and or service or service component information. The service owning device is responsible for providing and or managing memory for storage and a primary user interface for the service. In the example of client device B is the service owner for service component B voice path . At the conclusion of the service component e.g. termination of the phone call the service owning device i.e. client device B stores call history information in memory e.g. memory . In at least some embodiments each service is owned by a single device to the exclusion of other devices.

In at least this particular embodiment device manager is able to continue the particular service i.e. a voice call through a transition from a phone handset to another handset which comprises components usable to support a particular service.

In at least some embodiments device manager may cause execution of all or a portion of a service at a later time based on the availability of one or more client devices having particular device component capabilities. For example with respect to if client device B is unavailable or disconnected from device manager and a short message service SMS message is received by device manager the device manager may cause the SMS message to be displayed on either client device C or client device D depending on user preferences and or service parameters. However because neither client device i.e. C or D includes a capability to enable a user to compose a reply the user is able to view and not respond to the SMS message at that time. During this time period the user may view received SMS messages without responding. Depending on the particular configuration storage of the received SMS message is performed by the service owning device e.g. device manager or one of client devices C or D . At a point later in time after client device B is available device manager causes the client device B to prompt the user to reply to the received SMS message using the keypad capability of client device B. In accordance with at least one embodiment device manager may provide a reduced portion of a particular service via one or more client devices or may defer providing all or a portion of a particular service via one or more client devices.

During device tagging method a user of device manager interacts with the device manager either directly or via a client device to input preferences related to client devices data of the user and services.

The flow begins at functionality wherein a new service is registered with device manager as a result of the addition of a new service to an existing client device the device manager and or wireless network or a user originated change of preferences. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality processing device receives commands and or information from a user of device manager specifying user preference with respect to the device owner e.g. is the client device owned by device manager . The received user preference is stored in memory .

The flow then proceeds to functionality wherein processing device receives commands and or information from the user of device manager specifying user preferences with respect to the ownership of one or more pieces of particular service e.g. components of a service such as caller identifier ID information voice path etc. For example service ownership may be specified to be device manager . In at least some embodiments service ownership specifies one or more client devices.

The flow then proceeds to functionality wherein processing device receives commands and or information from the user of device manager specifying a particular priority by which the user desires the device manager to assign a particular service among one or more client devices for a particular service. The flow then proceeds to end.

The flow begins at functionality wherein a new service interrupt is received by device manager . Device manager receives the service interrupt from wireless network e.g. the wireless network transmits information to the device manager according to a particular service to which a user of the device manager may be subscribed. The flow proceeds to functionality .

Responsive to receipt of the new service interrupt by device manager the device manager retrieves the service definition corresponding to the perceived service interrupt. In at least some embodiments device manager retrieves the service definition from a service definition database stored in memory . The retrieved service definition specifies a set of attributes i.e. hardware attributes set and or service attribute set of a client device needed to be able to handle the received service. In at least some embodiments the received service interrupt comprises the service definition within the interrupt.

If a corresponding service definition does not exist the service routing method ends and or returns to an idle state awaiting a new service interrupt. If the corresponding service definition exists the flow proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager determines whether there is a current client device able to satisfy the identified service definition corresponding to the received service interrupt. That is device manager determines whether a client device within predetermined region comprises a hardware attribute set and or a service attribute set meeting the specified needs of the service definition. If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow proceeds to functionality wherein device manager assigns elements from at least one device to satisfy the service definition. In at least some embodiments device manager assigns one or more of hardware and or service attributes of a particular client device to receive at least a portion of the service corresponding to the received service interrupt. In at least some embodiments device manager assigns elements based on predefined user preferences regarding client devices and or services. In at least some embodiments the predefined user preferences are stored in memory .

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow proceeds to functionality and the service routing method determine whether a thin client device e.g. a client device having a capability to handle at least a portion of the service from device manager exists within predetermined region . In at least some embodiments device manager determines whether a thin client is available based on the content of hardware attribute set and or service attribute set of the client devices.

If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow proceeds to functionality and device manager in conjunction with the identified thin client provides at least a portion of service to the user. For example in a given scenario where a client device having both audio and video capabilities fails or becomes otherwise unavailable to support audio and video service for device manager the device manager may determine to utilize a client device having only audio capabilities or only video capabilities in order to provide partial service to the user. In accordance with such a scenario the user would be able to continue to either hear audio or see video e.g. continuing communication and a video chat service to a lesser degree.

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow proceeds to functionality and device manager terminates provision of the service to the user. The flow then proceeds to end and or returns to an idle state awaiting a new service interrupt.

In accordance with the first portion of dynamic network subscription management method the flow begins at functionality wherein initial user preferences are received and stored e.g. in memory by device manager as a result of a new client device moving within predetermined region . A user of device manager provides the user preferences via either an I O of the device manager or a client device providing an I O. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager stores the initial network user preference for each specific client device added to the device manager. In at least some embodiments the user preference for a specific client device comprises a device priority. In at least some other embodiments a user preference for a specific service on a client device comprises a service allocation priority. Device manager uses the stored preferences in determining network subscriptions based on active devices in functionality . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager creates a network preference for the client device based on the received user preference and current active client devices. In at least some embodiments the network preference and network subscription is dynamically managed by device manager based on the active client devices and stored user preferences.

In accordance with the second portion of dynamic network subscription management method the flow begins at functionality wherein the active client devices within predetermined region is determined. In at least some embodiments the active devices comprise client devices in communication with device manager via NAN communication I F . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager updates the networks needed to support one or more client devices based on stored preferences e.g. in memory . The networks comprise the communication between device manager and wireless network . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During functionality device manager performs an update after detecting a change of active devices within predetermined region . In at least some embodiments execution of functionality comprises repeated execution of functionality .

In accordance with the first portion of dynamic SIM parameters generation method the flow begins at functionality wherein initial user preferences are received and stored e.g. in memory by device manager as a result of a new client device moving within predetermined region . A user of device manager provides the user preferences via either an I O of the device manager or a client device providing an I O. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager stores the initial user preference for each client device added to the device manager. In at least some embodiments the initial user preference comprises an initial set of user preferences with respect to configuring device manager e.g. enabling or disabling roaming capabilities selecting preferred networks establishing network settings for example related to wide area local area networks etc. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager creates one or more wireless protocol parameters for the client device based on the received user preference. In accordance with at least some embodiments one or more wireless protocol parameters may be changed by device manager based on the current active client device s . Responsive to a change in active client devices device manager modifies the wireless protocol parameters for a particular wireless network access.

In accordance with the second portion of dynamic SIM parameters generation method the flow begins at functionality wherein the active client devices within predetermined region are determined. In at least some embodiments the active devices comprise client devices in communication with device manager via NAN communication I F . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager updates the wireless protocol parameters e.g. stored in memory based on stored parameters e.g. from first portion of dynamic SIM parameters generation method for active client devices. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During functionality device manager performs an update after detecting a change of active devices within predetermined region . In at least some embodiments execution of functionality comprises repeated execution of functionality .

The flow begins at functionality wherein one or more client devices are discovered by device manager e.g. using NAN communication I F . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality one or more authentication and or security methods may be used with respect to a discovered client device. Authentication and or security is used to prevent and or minimize the likelihood of device manager inadvertently and or unexpectedly establishing communication with a client device other than one with which a connection is desired. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During functionality device manager performs registration of the client device with the device manager. In at least some embodiments execution of registration functionality may comprise exchanging identifying information concerning either or both of the client device and or device manager . The flow then proceeds to functionality . In at least some embodiments functionality is executed on each occurrence of client device discovery. In accordance with such embodiment if there are no updates or initial registration to be performed with respect to the client device discovered device manager adds the client device to a list of current active devices and the client device returns to an idle state.

During execution of functionality device manager determines whether the registration of the client device is an initial registration or an update of an existing registration. In at least some embodiments device manager refers to one or more stored pieces of information e.g. in memory in order to determine whether the registration is an initial registration or an update of an existing registration.

If the result of functionality is an update of an existing registration the flow proceeds to functionality and the flow proceeds to end and or enter an idle state.

If the result of functionality is an initial registration the flow proceeds to functionality and device registration is performed. In at least some embodiments functionality is executed for only a first registration of a client device with device manager . In at least some embodiments the registration which occurs is similar to or the same as depicted and described in conjunction with . The flow then proceeds to service registration functionality .

In at least some embodiments functionality comprises locking a particular client device to device manager to the exclusion of communication with other device managers which the client device may be within the predetermined region . In at least some embodiments the client device may be prevented from communicating with other device managers in range of the client device. In this manner control and security of the client device remains with the device manager to which the client device is registered.

Service registration functionality described in more detail with respect to enables device manager to obtain information corresponding to services provided and were supported by a client device. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

The flow then proceeds to functionality wherein the service provided and or supported by the particular client device is registered. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager determines if the client service identified to be registered in functionality is a service known to the device manager e.g. whether the device manager already stores information corresponding to the identified service in memory .

If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow proceeds to functionality and device manager checks for another service from the client device to be registered. If there are no more services to be registered the flow proceeds to end and or enter an idle state.

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow proceeds to functionality and the device manager registers the identified service e.g. prepares an entry in memory corresponding to the identified client service. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager receives parameters corresponding to the client service being registered. In at least some embodiments the service parameters received by device manager correspond to the content of the service attribute set of the client device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment functionality comprises an optional validation functionality during which the service parameters received by the device manager are validated for example through the use of wireless network to access a validation service such as a computer system connected to wireless network or another network reachable by wireless network . In at least some embodiments validation of a service parameter comprises a determination of whether the service parameters are approved by the validation service. In at least some embodiments functionality may be used to validate a particular client device.

Next device manager transmits a message requesting device attributes of the client device e.g. H W attribute set . In response the client device transmits a message providing the requested device attributes to device manager .

Next device manager transmits a message requesting device services of client device e.g. service attribute set . In response the client device transmits a message providing the requested service attributes to device manager .

Next device manager transmits a message providing device manager attributes. In response the client device transmits a message providing an acknowledgment of the message receipt.

Next device manager transmits a message providing device manager service capabilities e.g. service attributes to the client device. In response the client device transmits a message are binding acknowledgment of receipt of message .

During execution of functionality registration of the discovered client device is performed between the client device and device manager . The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager determines whether the registered client device is active. If the result of functionality is positive YES the flow then proceeds to functionality and device manager determines whether there is a next device. If there is no next device the flow proceeds to end and or enter an idle state.

If the result of functionality is negative NO the flow then proceeds to functionality and device manager sets a device wakeup schedule for the client device. The flow then proceeds to functionality . In at least some embodiments device manager prompts a user to establish a device wakeup schedule for the particular client device. In at least some embodiments device manager establishes the wakeup schedule for the particular client device based on previously established user preferences.

The flow then proceeds to functionality wherein device manager updates the active devices resulting from functionality . The flow then proceeds to functionality were in device manager stores information corresponding to the client device e.g. in a device element database of memory . The flow then returns to idle state .

During execution of functionality device manager presents a user interface for a user to establish participation of the particular client device with respect to other client devices. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager creates and manages a database of end user priorities with respect to one or more client devices. In at least some embodiments device manager updates a database of end user priorities during execution of functionality if such a database party exists. The flow then proceeds to end and or enter an idle state.

During execution of functionality device manager presents a user interface for end user prioritization of each service of the particular device registered in functionality . In at least some embodiments device manager via I O causes the display of a user interface to obtain the end user prioritization. The flow then proceeds to functionality .

During execution of functionality device manager creates and manages a database of end user priorities with respect to one or more client devices. In at least some embodiments device manager updates a database of end user priorities during execution of functionality if such a database party exists. The flow then proceeds to end and or enter an idle state.

Device manager may utilize application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local processing platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. Further some such APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some of such APIs are known to be operationally located between the device manager system software and the software applications such that the device manager computing functionality is made available to the software applications without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. JAVA developed by Sun Microsystems of Santa Clara Calif. LINUX SYMBIAN available from Symbian Software Ltd of Southward London and WINMOB.

The application download server is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices across the wireless network . System may also include at least one stored application database that holds the software applications e.g. a PDMS that are downloadable by the device manager. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly other embodiments include one of more servers that each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments. System is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote client devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Stored application database includes a PDMS and one or more parameters according to the above described embodiments for download to each of the device managers . Device managers download a copy of PDMS and or one or more parameters from stored applications database . In the embodiment shown a server can include the application download server distribution server and the stored application database . However these servers can also be independent devices.

Still referring to the embodiment of carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . Carrier network communicates with the MSC through another communications link such as another network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between carrier network and MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS such as by at least one communications link including both a data network and or the Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the device manager in an over the air protocol such as short messaging service SMS etc.

In the embodiment of each device manager may include a processing platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from computer system or other network servers . Computer platform may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC may be installed at the time of manufacture of device manager . ASIC or other processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs e.g. PDMS in a memory of the wireless device. API is a runtime environment executing on the computing device or device manager in this case. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software although other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices. Memory for example can be comprised of at least one of read only and random access memory ROM and RAM EPROM EEPROM flash cards and any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform may also include a local database that can hold the software applications e.g. PDMS one or more parameters files or data not actively used in memory . Local database may include at least one of flash memory cells magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape a soft disk a hard disk and any other type of secondary or tertiary memory. Thus in the embodiment of each device manager may be loaded with applications such as PDMS one or more parameters and or data from computer system in accordance with system .

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that the disclosed embodiments fulfill one or more of the advantages set forth above. After reading the foregoing specification one of ordinary skill will be able to affect various changes substitutions of equivalents and various other embodiments as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

