---

title: Enhanced banner advertisements
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for providing and displaying enhanced banners and other objects on a communication device. The banner file may comprise ancillary data, such as calendar appointment details, other event details, or contact details, embedded within the file itself, or comprised in an envelope wrapping the banner file. When the banner is displayed on the communication device, the user may invoke a context menu to create an event, such as a calendar event, on the device using the embedded ancillary data. In other embodiments, the communication device uses geolocation services to determine whether the user is likely to be in attendance at an event, and if not, to issue alerts or initiate a further action, such as initiating recording of a television program the user is about to miss, over the network. In other embodiments, the banner file's ancillary data includes recommendation data, identifying a banner as being recommended by a contact of the user's.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798445&OS=08798445&RS=08798445
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08798445
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100226
---
The present application relates to the display and function of banner advertisements on communication devices.

Users are accustomed to viewing advertisements while engaging in web browsing. Advertisements are often delivered to users as banners which are primarily graphics files inserted into other content e.g. embedded on a webpage . When a banner or other insert advertisement contains subject matter of interest to the user the user must click on or otherwise actuate the banner to visit a website to obtain more information. This results in an interruption in the user s activities meaning the user may be less likely to want to click on the banner.

Furthermore while some banners may contain rich media such as videos or interactive features the banner itself only provides information to the user so long as the user is looking at it or interacting with it. Generally banner advertisements do not provide additional user relevant data.

The embodiments described herein provide a system and method for enhanced banners and other elements that may be inserted or displayed in conjunction with other content such as webpages and specialized applications and usage of these enhanced banners and elements on a communication device. These embodiments will be described in relation to a communication device such as a mobile communication device having a display for displaying content within a graphical user interface. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art however that this description is not intended to limit the scope of the described embodiments to mobile communication devices. The methods and systems described herein may be applied to any appropriate communication or data processing device capable of communicating over a network whether portable or wirelessly enabled or not including without limitation cellular phones smartphones wireless organizers personal digital assistants desktop computers terminals laptops tablets handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and the like.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented on a communication device such as that illustrated in . The communication device may communicate with other devices over a wireless communication system or enterprise system as illustrated in . The communication device may be a mobile device with two way communication and advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The communication device can also have voice communication capabilities.

The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the communication device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with one or more of Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS EDGE or UMTS and optionally other network communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Other wireless networks can also be associated with the communication device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that can be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the communication device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard can be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

A rendering or layout circuit or engine is included in the device . When a user specifies that a data file is to be viewed on the display the rendering circuit or engine analyzes and processes the data file for visualization on the display . Rendering circuit or engine may be implemented as hardware software or as a combination of both hardware and software.

The communication device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device . To identify a subscriber the communication device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the communication device and to personalize the communication device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the communication device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services can include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services can include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM card can store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The communication device may be a battery powered device including a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the communication device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells can provide the power to the communication device .

The communication device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which can alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the communication device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the communication device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the communication device or some other suitable storage element in the communication device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages can be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the communication device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the communication device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items can be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the communication device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The communication device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the communication device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the communication device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the communication device to allow the communication device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the communication device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the communication device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the communication device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the communication device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the communication device and can provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications can enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the communication device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the communication device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path can for example be used to load an encryption key onto the communication device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication. The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the communication device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the communication device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the communication device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem can include devices such as a touchscreen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards can also be used. A composed item can be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . It will be appreciated that if the display comprises a touchscreen then the auxiliary subsystem may still comprise one or more of the devices identified above.

For voice communications the overall operation of the communication device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which can perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter can be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the communication device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the communication device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that should be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the communication device . When the communication device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the communication device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the communication device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the communication device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters can vary between different nodes. For example one node can employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all communication devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each communication device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSNs via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given communication device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic W assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a communication device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each communication device must be assigned to one or more APNs and communication devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN can be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity Ipsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a communication device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s communication device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the communication device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each can be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the communication device and can be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the communication device for use. The information downloaded to the communication device can include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers are typically also connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this exemplary configuration. More generally the host system can represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and can comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the exemplary embodiment of .

To facilitate the opera ion of the communication device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the communication device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a web server such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP server a contact server and a device manager module . HTTP servers can also be located outside the enterprise system as indicated by the HTTP server attached to the network . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the communication devices . In an alternative embodiment there can be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the communication devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this exemplary embodiment the communication device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system can be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system can operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the communication device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the communication device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the communication device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the communication device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages can originate from any number of sources. For instance a message can have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some exemplary implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system can comprise multiple message servers . The message server can also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store can be a separate hardware unit such as data store with which the message server communicates. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer can request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the communication device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the communication device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the communication device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the communication device .

When operating the communication device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the communication device . The message application operating on the communication device can also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application can be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the communication device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the communication device are automatically redirected to the communication device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the communication device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the communication device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server can monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s communication device . The message management server can also through an encoder not shown associated therewith compress message data using any suitable compression decompression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypt messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server can also receive messages composed on the communication device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the communication device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the communication device can receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the communication device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server can also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the communication device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the communication device from the message server the message management server can push only the first part of a message to the communication device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the communication device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the communication device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server can include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications. The mobile data server can also connect to the Internet or other public network through HTTP server or other suitable web server such as a File Transfer Protocol FTP server to retrieve HTTP webpages and other data. Requests for webpages are typically routed through mobile data server and then to HTTP server through suitable firewalls and other protective mechanisms. The web server then retrieves the webpage over the Internet and returns it to mobile data server . As described above in relation to message management server mobile data server is typically provided or associated with an encoder that permits retrieved data such as retrieved webpages to be decompressed and compressed using any suitable compression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypted e.g. using an encryption technique such as DES Triple DES or AES and then pushed to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . While encoder is only shown for mobile data server it will be appreciated that each of message server message management server and HTTP servers and can also have an encoder associated therewith.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the communication device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the HTTP server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server can be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system can comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the communication devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the communication device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the communication devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the communication device and the like.

Rendering data files originally optimized or prepared for visualization on large screen displays on a portable electronic device display often requires additional processing prior to visualization on the small screen portable electronic device displays. According to an embodiment this additional processing is accomplished by the rendering engine shown in . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the rendering engine can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof and can comprise a dedicated image processor and associated circuitry or can be implemented within main processor .

The embodiments described herein are described in the context of a client communication device and client browser application in communication with a service over a network. As discussed above the communication device may receive data relating to a resource from an external web server or other server from the mobile data server of which in turn is connected to a public network such as the Internet via the HTTP server such that it is in communication with the external web server or other server. The receipt of data from an external server may bypass the mobile data server and data may instead be received from an HTTP server external to the host network. Regardless of the means by which the resource is received by the client device for display the resource received from a server over the network may be rendered by the rendering engine for display on the client device s display .

Turning to a first embodiment of a banner insert or advertisement is shown displayed on the display of a communication device . The content displayed on the display may be divided between the banner and other content such as a user interface for an application executing on the device . The banner may display information to the user that is relevant to the content displayed in the user interface or it may be irrelevant. For example the application may be a television program listing browser as shown in which allows the user to search for and display television programs for a specified region and or time period and to obtain detailed program information. The banner may be an advertisement for a particular program listed in the search results displayed in the interface or for another program that is not listed but may be determined to be potentially of interest to the user in view of the user s search parameters. Or the banner may be an advertisement for an event taking place in the user s area determined either with GPS functionality operating at the communication device or based on the region defined in the user s search. Alternatively the event may be a broadcast over the network so that the user s precise region is irrelevant. The banner may even be an advertisement for a product available for purchase which is unrelated to the content displayed in the user interface . The banner in that case may include or reference a retailer or list of retailers offering the advertised product for sale. Although the embodiments described herein are set out in the context of a television program listing browser it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the application executing on the device and the context within which the banner is displayed may be any application or context and is not limited to a television program listing browser. For example the application executing on the device may be any entertainment utility or productivity application and its subject matter may be unrelated to the content of the banner . As another example the application may be a web browser application in which case the content displayed on the device may be a webpage of the user s choosing served to the device and again the content of the webpage may be unrelated to the content of the banner .

In this example and the other described herein the banner may not comprise an actual advertisement that is to say a communication intended to persuade the user to embark on a course of action or use a particular good or service. The banner may be informative in nature such as a public service reminder. Although the term banner is used with reference to the banner the banner need not be shaped in a conventional banner shape or positioned in a conventional banner orientation. Generally a banner comprises a typically image based file displayed in a particular region on a user interface for example as a ribbon across the top bottom left right or a middle section of the user interface displayed on the device . However the banner may be a smaller or larger graphic or differently shaped. The shape and position of a banner when served with other content such as a banner advertisement on a webpage is often defined by the service provider serving the other webpage content or in the example of by the developer of the application executing on the device or by the operating system of the device . While most banners are image based they may contain rich media such as animated graphics or video. A common platform for animated banners is Adobe Flash from Adobe Systems Incorporated San Jose Calif. USA. Display of Flash banners requires that the device support the Flash file format by executing a dedicated player application or plug in. Advertisements displayed to users via a web browser interface include the foregoing as well as other types of special effect advertisements such as floating advertisements which travel over existing content already displayed on the device such as the webpage requested by the user . Again the use of such special effect advertisements requires that the communication device on which they are intended to be displayed supports the file format or platform used by the advertisement. A banner may also comprise HTML code rather than an image file or a video or Flash file to be rendered in a specific region of the display . The banner may include any one of these technologies. In other words the banner is an object that may be displayed in conjunction with other content on the display and that may in fact be embedded within other content as a graphic is embedded in a webpage but this object is generally maintained and stored independently of the other content with which it is displayed or in which it is embedded and is often served to the communication device from a different server and in response to a separate and differently addressed request from the device . For simplicity the examples described herein are provided in the context of an unanimated image based advertisement.

The data for rendering the banner on the communication device is provided to the device over the network either before or during application execution. The device may store a banner and its associated data in memory for retrieval when a suitable application is launched on the device when the application is launched the device determines that there exists banner data stored in memory for display with the application. If no banner data is available from the device memory then the device operating system or the application may initiate a request over the network from a server providing banner data. The server providing the banner data may be a server serving other data for use by the application or may be a separate server operated by the same or a third party as that operating the server providing the application data. For example if the application executing on the device is a television program listing application the data populating the television listings or responding to the user s search requests may be served by an electronic program guide server. The banner may also be served from the same electronic program guide server or from another server operated by the electronic program guide content provider but alternatively the banner may be provided to the device by another server such as one operated by an advertising service that contracts with content providers to supply banner advertisements to be displayed alongside the content provider s content. When the television program listing application is launched on the communication device the application may initiate a request to an identified uniform resource indicator URI to obtain banner data. The application s request may be transmitted by the device and addressed specifically to the service that provides the banner data in response the service will provide the banner data to the device over the network. Alternatively the request may be transmitted to another service that determines how the request should be serviced for example the service receiving the request may determined from data embedded in the request that the request was invoked by a specific application and then may obtain the appropriate banner data from yet another service then provide the data to the device . In the case of an application such as a web browser application the browser may retrieve a webpage over the network containing a directive to the browser to request an embedded object namely the banner using an embedded URI. The browser would render the webpage and once the directive was parsed transmit the request to the URI. The URI may be an address for the resource that comprises the banner so the server hosting the banner would respond to the request by providing the banner . Alternatively the resource addressed by the URI may execute instructions to identify the appropriate banner hosted by another service and may retrieve a copy of the banner on behalf of the browser and then transmit the banner to the device .

The information provided in or with the banner may be dynamically selected. For example the server providing the banner may select the actual banner to be served based on data embedded in the request transmitted from the application executing on the device there may be a token or other identifying information comprised in the web browser s request identifying the webpage other data about the application the type of communication device other information that is then used by the server to select the appropriate banner . For example if the data transmitted in the request indicated that the device from which the request was transmitted was in a particular country or geographic region the banner transmitted in response to the request may be one with content specifically intended for the residents of that region.

The banner that is provided to the device for display may be relatively simple comprising only a graphic file associated with a URI the URI comprising an address for a resource such as a webpage or other document accessible over the network by the device . Both the file comprising the banner and the URI are provided to the device . When an input is received at the device to actuate the banner or an instruction associated with the banner for example by detection of movement of a cursor to the banner or otherwise movement of focus to the banner and then activation of the banner via a user interface subsystem such as a keypress on a keyboard a tap on the area of a touchscreen in which the banner is displayed or other actions and interface subsystems that will be known to those skilled in the art a responsive action is initiated by the communication device or application. The responsive action may be a request for the resource over the network at the URI provided with the banner . The response by the server processing the request may be to provide the resource itself If the application executing at the communication device is a web browsing application the browsing application may transmit an HTTP request for the resource identified by the URI if the resource is another webpage then the browsing application will either display this new resource in the current viewing area of the display or open a new window or viewing area to display this new resource. If the banner is a more sophisticated element comprising rich media features such as video or Flash technology the banner may be interactive the user may be able to use one of the input subsystems to interact with the banner for example to answer survey questions or play a game provided in the banner . Generally speaking banners are frequently associated with a URI so that the input received may trigger an instruction to retrieve a further resource related to the banner. Once that new resource has been retrieved and displayed to the user on the device in response to the received input the new resource may display new information to the user about the subject matter of the banner . The new resource if it is a webpage or other applet or application may provide some functionality to the user. If the new resource is a webpage the user may interact with the various elements presented on the webpage.

Thus banner advertising may be effective solely because it is displayed to the user of the device and potentially makes an impression on the user. However an input instruction must be received by the device for example by the user taking a positive action of clicking on or otherwise actuating the banner to obtain further information about the subject matter of the banner . The user may not wish to do this at the time the banner is viewed and may wish to defer further investigation for another day. However the user may forget to do so and the next time the same webpage or application is launched or used the banner selected for delivery to the device may have been changed. Or the user may not wish to obtain further information because actuating the banner involves not only interrupting the use of the current application but also waiting for the device to retrieve further information over the network. Thus to the extent that banner advertising relies on the user pulling further information to the device the requirement that the user actuate the banner to retrieve a new resource is an inconvenience that reduces the effectiveness of this form of advertising.

Accordingly the banner is provided with ancillary data for use at the communications device . The ancillary data may be event related information contact information or resource related information such as event start and ending dates descriptions addresses telephone numbers and the like. In the example of the banner contains a public service reminder about a by election in the user s region and invites the user to click here to learn more about voting. This particular banner may be a graphic file associated with a first URI so that when an input instruction to actuate the URI is received the device initiates a request to over the network for a resource identified by that URI. The first URI is thus one example of resource related information. This first URI however may not be contained within the file comprising the banner itself the association with URI may be defined outside the banner file so that this information is available to the application executing on the device . The associated URI may be provided to the device at the same time that the banner is provided to the device or prior to the provision of the banner to the device . For example when the application is launched the application may initiate a request to a first service over the network to provide the first banner and associated URI then display the banner once it and the URI are received. If the application retrieves and displays webpages to the user then the webpage received at the device may associate the banner with a URI using an HTML anchor element within the code of the webpage. The associated URI is thus provided to the device possibly in advance of the banner being received by the device . The webpage may include the ancillary information for example as additional XML format tags within the webpage document associated with the banner element but this likely requires the web server providing the webpage to the device to generate customized webpage HTML code to accompany the banner . If the banner is dynamically selected according to the individualized requests received from the device this requires additional resources at the web server. Further if the banner is intended to be served to devices executing other applications besides web browsing applications the banner may be transmitted to a device without the accompanying webpage HTML code.

Therefore in one embodiment the banner may contain the ancillary data embedded within the file comprising the banner . If the banner is a graphic this ancillary data may be included in metadata or tags associated with the graphic file. The metadata may be embedded in the file itself for example the graphics file may be configured to include Extensible Metadata Platform XMP metadata. XMP is a standard providing for the definition creation and processing of metadata for embedding into files following an XML structure. Other standards for embedding data in a graphics file are known such as Exchangeable Image File Format EXIF and IPTC IIM. These standards generally define data types such as creator title and copyright information to be embedded in file. In particular however the XMP standard may be extended to include further data types. Thus additional data stored in the file in pseudo XML structure could include 

The various names and values in the foregoing example may of course be varied and the formatting or method of inclusion of the ancillary data may vary and need not be expressed in the foregoing tagged format or name value pair format. Other methods of embedding or adding ancillary information to a file will be known to those skilled in the art. In this example data is given for an event start date and end date a reminder time i.e. a value in hours defining a time before the start of the event at which time a reminder function can be invoked an event type such as a calendar event task docket item e mail or other event or function that is definable with the foregoing data an event location an event name and an event description. Not all of this data is required. When the user actuates or an instruction is received at the device to actuate the banner comprising this additional data rather than initiate a request for an associated URI the responsive action initiated at the device may comprise an extraction of the metadata embedded in the banner file. Since the banner is likely stored in at least temporary if not persistent memory at this time it is not necessary to request the ancillary information over the network. The device then parses the extracted metadata and automatically invokes a further application at the device to process the data and to create the appropriate event. In this example the device may extract the data and determine that the event type is a calendar event since this is specified in the metadata as EventType. The device would then invoke a calendar application on the device to create a calendar appointment populating the various fields of the calendar appointment with corresponding metadata. Thus a calendar appointment may be created on the device with a starting date and time as specified by the EventStartDate and EventEndDate metadata a reminder to be issued three hours in advance according to ReminderTime a location of check your voter registration card although this data could be replaced with the user s own location or other information delivered with the banner and an appointment name and description as set out above as EventName and EventDescription. Other data relevant to a calendar appointment or whatever other type of event is created may be included such as participant names. If the event is a meeting with others the calendar appointment may be populated with the names of other attendees identified in the metadata. The other attendees may be identified by name or e mail address. If the service providing the banner is identified as an attendee a message may be sent to the service as a result of the calendar appointment creation thus providing confirmation that the user exhibited interest in the banner . However such a communication may first require the user s consent.

The calendar appointment may be automatically launched in the background while the current application is still operating in the foreground if the communication device is capable of multitasking with the result that the user s experience of the current application is not visually interrupted by the display of the calendar application on the device. Otherwise if the device s operating system cannot multitask in this manner it may temporarily switch the current application to the calendar application so that the appointment may be added and saved optionally requesting the user to confirm that the new appointment is correct and should be saved and then switch back to displaying the user s application. While the latter presents an interruption to the user the interruption is less than if the user were required to obtain more information about the subject matter of the banner by actuating the banner to retrieve a webpage from which the relevant information could be obtained before initiating the calendar appointment. In this embodiment sufficient information is delivered together with the banner so that the user can store sufficient information for later reference and can easily set up a reminder or appointment to review the subject matter of the banner . If the description of the event includes a URI then storing the calendar event also stores the URI that the user can later use to learn more without having to invoke a browsing application retrieve the resource at that URI and then bookmark the URI for later reference.

As described above actuating the banner results in the automatic creation of the calendar appointment. Alternatively actuating the banner with a primary action detected at the device such as a left click i.e. actuation of a left hand or a primary button on a multibutton user interface device such as a mouse or trackball device or some other primary action or instruction detected at the device may result in the device transmitting a request over the network for the associated URI while actuating the banner using a secondary action detected at the device such as a right click may bring up a context menu for the user to select the option of either transmitting a request for the URI or creating a calendar appointment from the embedded data as shown in . In a context menu is displayed giving the user the option of accessing a resource associated with the banner Visit this webpage creating a calendar event Create calendar appointment creating a task item Create task item or cancelling and exiting the context menu Cancel .

In another embodiment the banner may not have the ancillary information embedded within the file comprising the banner itself. Instead the ancillary information may be provided in an envelope wrapping or preceding the file when it is transmitted to the communication device . The ancillary information may be provided in name value pairs or any other suitable format. When the file comprising the banner and its envelope are received at the communication device the device extracts the ancillary data from the envelope and temporarily or persistently stores it in memory for later access should the user actuate the banner to create a calendar appointment or other item on the device based on the banner s ancillary data. The extracted ancillary data may be deleted from memory at the device when the file comprising the banner is itself deleted from memory.

In still a further embodiment the ancillary information is not included either within the file comprising the banner or in an envelope or other data transmitted to the device with the banner . In that case the application or device may be configured so that when the banner is actuated a context menu is invoked on the display providing the user the option to initiate retrieval of the ancillary information for the creation of a calendar or other event at the device . Again if the operating system of the device is capable of engaging in multitasking in this manner the device may transmit a request over the network to the URI associated with the banner for the ancillary information while the user continues to use the current application.

Also as noted above the event need not be a calendar appointment. It may be a task event in which case the ancillary information associated with the event may comprise a due date a reminder date and a name and description it may be a docket event for use with a docketing program or it may be any other type of event item associated with an application operating on the device . The event created at the device may even be an e mail SMS or other message for transmission to individual recipients or for posting to a service to which the user is subscribed as discussed below. The ancillary information may include the e mail or other messaging address of the recipient or service a subject line for the message and even content for the message body a date or time included in the ancillary information may be interpreted as the date or time to transmit the message. The device would invoke the appropriate application to create the task item docket item or e mail using the ancillary information provided for the banner .

There are other uses for the banner and its ancillary information. The ancillary information may simply define a calendar event or task event with a description comprising a URI and either a start and end date that are close in time if the ancillary information defines a calendar event or a single due date if the ancillary information defines a task event . When an instruction to actuate the banner is received or detected by the device for example by a user actuation action the calendar appointment or task item is saved on the device and effectively operates as a reminder to the user to obtain more information by retrieving the resource identified by the URL The URI stored in the description may include a token or some other generally unique code associated with the specific banner giving rise to the calendar event or other event. When a request is transmitted from the device the request may include this token or unique code. The server processing the request may use the token or unique code to store information about the user s interest in the banner or to retrieve information specifically directed to that banner .

If the banner is advertising a good or service the ancillary information may include information about a retailer s location and a sale event which may also be stored as a calendar or task item. If the banner is advertising a television program the ancillary information may include information about the channel and the start and end times the name of the program and optionally a description or other information.

Thus illustrates a method for creating an event at the communication device using this ancillary information where the ancillary information is included in the file comprising the banner . The banner and the ancillary information are received at the device at . As described above the banner file and the ancillary information may be received separately or together. The banner is then rendered for display at the device at . At the device detects the invocation of an instruction or command to set an event associated with the banner . At in response to the command the device extracts the relevant ancillary information either from the file comprising the banner itself or from a separate file that was received in association with the banner . The device then determines from the extracted ancillary information what type of event is to be created e.g. a calendar appointment a task item and so forth at . At the device creates and saves the new event using the extracted ancillary information invoking the appropriate application necessary to do so.

The process of presumes that there is only one type of event that may be generated using the ancillary information. This may arise where the ancillary information expressly defines an event type such as calendar . In a modified process is illustrated in which the ancillary data is capable of being used to generate multiple types of events at the device because there may not be an express definition of an event type in the ancillary information or where the device presents a context menu to the user to select one or more options prior to creation of the event at the device . At the banner and the ancillary information are received at the device as described above. The banner is then rendered for display at the device at . At the device detects the invocation of an instruction or command to invoke a context menu associated with the banner . At in response to the command the device first extracts the relevant ancillary information either from the file comprising the banner itself or from a separate file that was received in association with the banner to determine whether the ancillary information defines a specific event type. If the ancillary information defines a specific event type then at the device displays a context menu on the display including the option to create the defined event type. If the ancillary information does not define a specific event type then at the device displays a context menu including options to create at least one event type that is capable of being generated from the ancillary information. At the device detects an instruction or command selected from the context menu and determines whether the command is one requiring creation of an event. If the command is a command to create an event then at the event is created and saved. If the command is for a different action then at the device carries out this different action.

If the ancillary information is not already stored at the device then a process such as that shown in may be used. At the banner is received at the device and the banner is then rendered for display at . At the device detects a user command to either invoke a context menu or to create an event from the banner . The device then determines whether it is currently storing the ancillary information for the banner at . If it is determined that the ancillary information is present at the device already then the process may continue either from step in or step of . However if it is determined that the ancillary information is not present at the device then at the device initiates a request to a server over the network for the ancillary information. The request may be addressed to a URI associated with the banner that is already stored at the device . Once the device receives a response with the ancillary information at the process may continue either from step in or step of .

The ancillary information associated with the banner may be used to generate other personal information entries at the device such as address book entries. The ancillary information may provide contact information such as an address e mail address and telephone numbers. Example pseudo XML content is provided below.

Additional information that may be encoded in the ancillary data includes business hours if the contact is a business or professional contact. In addition additional description data may be provided. For example if the contact is a restaurant the description data may even in include menu information. The device may create and save an address book entry using the methods described above.

The foregoing embodiments may be implemented in conjunction with a smart calendar task or other application that correlates events with the user s physical location or availability. As described above the communication device may be provided with GPS technology or may be configured to use other locational technology for determining an approximate position of the device . If the ancillary information received in conjunction with a banner contains sufficient location information the smart application may adapt reminders or alerts so that they are displayed to the user at a useful and relevant time. For example a banner described above may contain subject matter relevant to a sale of a particular item. If the device had been operated to store a task item relevant to that banner the task item might comprise a due date corresponding to the last date of the sale a name and description and optionally URI a reminder time and in addition to this data locational information in a format parseable by the device . If the ancillary information was provided to the device in an XML based format the locational information may be provided in a name value pair such as lat43.6478long 79.4007. With this locational information associated with the event stored at the device when the device obtains updated information about its current location the device may provide an update that may be viewed or otherwise perceived by the user when the device determines that it is in the proximity or at the location associated with the event. Thus the task item created at the device based on the ancillary data for the banner may have been configured to issue a reminder to the user eight hours before the due date of the task to ensure that the user had enough time to carry out the task. Or the task item may not have included a reminder time at all but the device would have only have provided an alert upon the occurrence of the due date for the task. However if the device determines that it is in the proximity of the task item location for example within 1 kilometer or within some other specified proximity value the device may issue an immediate alert via the display or via another interface subsystem such as a vibratory interface an auditory interface or the like concerning the task. The user may thus be alerted to an opportunity to carry out the task since he or she has found him or herself in the vicinity.

In another embodiment the event may be a task item may be associated with a specific relevant date or time range such that the task cannot be completed outside that range. In the example of the subject matter of the banner is an event that takes place only during a defined 12 hour period so a reminder in advance of the start time of the event may be less useful to the user than a reminder during the time period. In that case if the device determines that it is in the proximity of the task item location the device may then determine whether the current time is within the relevant time period for the task if it is not then the device does not issue an alert for the user. If the current time is within the relevant time period then the device does issue the alert.

The device may also be configured to customize the timing of reminders or alerts provided based on the user s current distance from the location of an event. The device may be configured to determine an approximate travel time for the user to arrive at each event associated with a specific location and stored at the device . The travel time may be determined from data provided to the device concerning typical traffic flow time of day and method of transportation thus for example as shown in the device may first obtain its current location over the network from a geolocation service at then query a map service over the network at providing the device s current location and the event location in the query. At the device receives from the map service an estimated travel time from the current location to the event location based on mode of transportation e.g. walking driving or by public transportation. The response from the map service may include estimated travel times for all modes of transportation or may only provide one estimated travel time identified in the query. At the device compares the estimated travel time with the difference between the event due date which may be the start time of a calendar appointment or the last time in the relevant date or time range for a task and the current time. If the estimated travel time exceeds the difference between the event due date and the current time at the device may issue an immediate reminder or alert for the user regarding the event even if the event had been preconfigured to issue an alert or reminder at a different time. The user is thus given an opportunity to make other arrangements if possible alternatively or additionally as discussed below the device may be configured to initiate a command to be transmitted over the network at . If the difference between the event due date and the current time is greater than the estimated travel time then the device may either do nothing and await a new update of the current location at or the device may still issue a reminder at if the difference is within a specific range such as 15 minutes or less thus giving the user some warning of the upcoming event.

Further enhancements to the foregoing embodiments may be provided. The device may further be configured by the user to store locational data for geographical landmarks relevant to the user. For example the at various locations an application may be invoked for example in response to a user input command for determining and storing locational data to store locational data in association with labels defined either by the user or by the device such as home work cottage mom and dad s house train station the pub grocery store and so forth. The geographical landmarks may represent locations that the user attends on a regular semi regular or even infrequent basis. While the user may explicitly define specific locations as home and the like the device may also be configured to determine the location of at least home and work locations based on a sampling of the device s geographical location throughout a weekday. It is typical for many users to be physically present with their communication device at a work related location between the approximate hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. each day and at home at least from the hours of midnight to 6 a.m. The device may be configured to automatically obtain and store readings of its geographical location several times a day for several days and from this data to determine based on the frequency and proximity of results an approximate location of work and home .

When the device subsequently obtains a reading of its current location the device may compare the current locational data to the stored locational data to determine whether the device is in the proximity of any one of the previously stored locations. While the device may record a specific latitudinal and longitudinal value for each label it will be understood that the locational data is subject to error. The device may be configured to determine that any current locational reading that is within 25 50 or 100 meters or some other predetermined tolerance value of a labelled location identified by the stored data is identifiable qualifies as being at that particular labelled location whereas a current locational reading indicating that the device is within 1 kilometer or some other predetermined value of the labelled location stored at the device is within the proximity of that labelled location.

An event created at the device for example associated with a banner that had been displayed at the device may not always be populated with locational data. If no data concerning a location of an event is provided the device may be configured to associate the event with a default location identified by the user. That default location typically will be either home or work . In further embodiments rules may be established at the communication device associating specific entries in an address book at the device with one of these defined locations for example all entries in the address book identified as a professional contact of the user e.g. individuals having work addresses that are the same as the user s work address or individuals that are explicitly tagged or identified in the address book as work contacts may be automatically associated with the work location stored at the device. All entries in the address book identified as a family contact of the user e.g. individuals having home addresses that are the same as the user s home address or individuals that are explicitly tagged or identified as home contacts may be automatically associated with the home location stored at the device. If an event is created at the device identifying such a work contact as a participant or attendee then the event data may by default be assigned the work location unless express locational data had been provided for the event. Thus if a default location is assigned to the events created at the device the device may still carry out a method such as that of .

In a still further embodiment the event management application whether the calendar application task application or some other application may be configured to invoke other actions based on the user s location with reference to scheduled events. For example the event may relate to another device or system operated or under the control of the device user such as a television personal video recorder personal computer home energy management system or some other device management system. Many devices and systems such as these are now network enabled or even wirelessly enabled so that they are capable of being configured or controlled over an Internet connection which may include a fixed or wireless connection by the user operating a remote device. An application may be installed and executed on the communication device that allows the user to communicate with a home network installed at the user s residence or even at another location that controls one or more devices such as a personal video recorder PVR thermostat and so forth. The application may allow the user to configure operating conditions or triggers for the device for example the user may use the application at the device to program a PVR at the user s home or at another location to record a given program. Such an application may also provide program listing browsing and searching capabilities to allow the user to search for a television program then use the application to transmit instructions to the PVR to automatically record the television program once found. A home energy management application may be executed on the device to allow the user to control the operation of appliances such as thermostats at the user s home for example by setting the thermostat temperature for specific times of the day during warmer months the user could use the application on the device to program the thermostat to maintain the residence at a temperature of 26C or higher during weekdays but to turn on an air conditioning unit at 4 30 pm weekdays so that the house is cooled to a comfortable temperature by the time the user returns home from work.

The remote configuration of devices and systems using the communication device may be coupled to the smart features described above. As discussed in the context of above if the device determines that the user based on the location of the device will miss an appointment or a task because he or she is too far from the location of the event then in addition or in place of displaying an alert to the user the device may be configured to automatically take further actions in respect of events associated with a device or system that is controllable using the device . For example the event stored at the device may be a television program scheduled to run between 8 00 and 9 00 pm that the user wishes to watch. The event may have been generated and stored on the device in accordance with the methods described with respect to and A through C. Thus for example the ancillary data provided to the device for creating the event which may be stored as a calendar appointment might comprise 

Instead of including a location for the event as identified by EventLocation the ancillary data may omit this field and provide only an event reference number EventReference which may reference data concerning the event at an external location. This reference number may be used by a PVR or electronic program guide service to identify an airing of a specific program at a specific time. Use of a reference number avoids the requirement to identify a specific channel since the channel identifier may vary according to the service to which the user subscribes. In another embodiment the ancillary data may include such a channel identifier.

Since in this embodiment there is no location defined for the event the device may insert a default location identifier such as home for the event location. Alternatively a rule may be defined on the device so that any events with an event reference value as provided in the example above or with ancillary data including a channel identifier are given a default location identifier of home . In a further alternative the ancillary information may define a different event type such as program the rule may then assign the home location identifier to the event. The user may of course edit the event data to designate a different location for the event for example if the user is travelling out of town. The assignment of a location to the event is particularly useful since the device may adjust the event time to reflect the time zone that the device is currently in.

If as described above with reference to the device determines that an estimated travel time from the device s current location to the home location exceeds the difference between the event start time and the current time the device may issue an alert for the user as described at step however the device may also be configured to automatically initiate a command to program a PVR at the user s home to record the television program. The command may be transmitted over the network to an external third party service to which the user subscribes from there the third party service may transmit instructions to the user s PVR. Thus the user is not required to take an additional step to respond to a reminder or alert at the communication device concerning the upcoming event in order to program the PVR to record the program that the user may miss.

Alternatively the device may not transmit a command over the network to arrange for programming of the PVR so far in advance of the actual event. Rather shortly before the scheduled start of the event the device may contact a location service to determine the current geographic location of the device . If the device determines at that time it is not located within the proximity of the event location then at that point the device may initiate the command to instruct the PVR to record the program. This may take place immediately prior to the commencement of the event however to ensure that instructions are received by the PVR in time the device may determine its location and initiate the command if necessary at least about 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the event.

The foregoing solution may be applied to other systems or devices that are remotely controllable as well. As described above a home energy management program may be configured to turn on an air conditioning unit for example by setting the thermostat to a lower temperature at a specific time before the user is expected to return home. At that time the device may contact the location service to determine its current location. Again if the device determines that the estimated travel time from the device s current location to the home location exceeds the difference between the event start time the setting of the lower temperature and or engagement of the air conditioning unit and the current time the device may initiate a command to be transmitted to the thermostat to delay the start time of the event for example by delaying it by an appropriate amount to reflect the user s estimated time of return. Like the PVR example above the device may transmit a command to a third party service which then relays a command to the thermostat over the network. Thus the process depicted in may be generally followed although the reminder or alert at may be optional and the device initiates a command at step .

If the event is one that is accessible to the user even when the user is not at the default location such as a television program which may be viewable when the user is away from home the device may be configured to update scheduled events stored in its memory to reflect the user s current location. For example if the device determines that it is located in a different time zone and that the estimated travel time back to an event location will result in the user missing the event the device may determine whether the event can be rescheduled for the user s current time zone or location. Even if the user travels to a different time zone the television program that may be the subject of the calendar event may still be available although at a different time. Thus when the device obtains current location information about its position it may verify its time zone and whether the current time zone has changed from the time zone in which upcoming calendar events tasks or other timed events have been scheduled. The upcoming events reviewed may be only those scheduled for the next eight twelve or twenty four hours since the user may manage to return to the original time zone in the near future. The device may then attempt to update the events to reflect the changed time zone. If an event includes an external event reference number the device may transmit a query to an external service associated with the event such as an electronic programming guide service to obtain updated information concerning the event. The external service may respond new or updated information so that the device can change the scheduled time of the event stored in its memory.

This process is illustrated in . At the device obtains its current location from a geolocation service. From the data thus obtained the device then determines at whether there is a time change resulting from the device being located in a different time zone than the last time its current time was verified against a network. If there has not been a change this process ends however it may be noted that the method of may continue from step . If there has been such a change the device then queries its data stores at for events such as calendar appointments tasks and other time based events in the next pre determined time period for example eight twelve or twenty four hours that were set in accordance with a previous time zone. If there are no such events the process ends but if there are such events the device then attempts to update each such event.

First the device may determine whether the event comprises an external event reference indicating that information about the event may be obtained from an external service at . If there is no external event reference then the device may or may not update the time set for that event. For each event without an external reference the device may determine at whether there is location information associated with the event indicating that the time was scheduled with reference to a location in a different time zone i.e. whether the time is location dependent. For example if an event on the device was stored in association with the home location the time of that event may be fixed according to the home time zone since the device is now in a new time zone the device may then shift the event starting and ending times to reflect the same time in the new time zone at . Thus if this home event was scheduled to begin at 5 00 pm it may be revised by the device to begin at 4 00 pm if the device had been moved forward by one time zone. If the event is not associated with a location in a different time zone then the device does not revise the time of the event.

If there is an external event reference then the device may initiate a query to an external service associated with the reference to obtain updated information at . The device may then update the event based on information received in response to the query at including updating the time of the event if required.

The smart features may also operate in conjunction with the address book and not merely time based events. When the device obtains updated information about its current location the device may check for updates from select contacts listed in the address book at the device that are determined to be proximate to the device s current location. The update may be obtained by accessing a resource identified by a URI stored in the address book associated with that address book entry the device may automatically transmit a query to that URI over the network and receive any updates to the address book entry and optionally additional ancillary data concerning special offers. The response to the device s query may comprise for example ancillary data describing an event such as a time limited offer which may then be automatically stored as a calendar event by the device with a reminder or alert issued to the user. Thus as the user is travelling with his or her communication device in the proximity of a contact business the device may issue an alert for user regarding a special offer from that business. The device may also estimate its future position or route based on geographic location information for example the device may initiate a query to a mapping service for information about places identified in its address book that are proximate to the device s current route. The current route may be estimated by repeated geographical location measurements correlated to their respective times of measurement for example based on such data it may be determined that the device is travelling along a particular road. The device may then query the address book for all contacts having an address on that road and then request updates for each of those contacts then issue notifications to the user accordingly. In order to limit the number of alerts issued to the user via the communication device the device may be configured so that the user may explicitly indicate for which contacts he or she wishes to receive such alerts. For example in the address book application the user may be able to edit an individual address book entry to check or uncheck an option to receive alerts concerning that contact.

The device and banners may also be configured to allow the user to participate in a social network. Social networking services are generally known in the art in addition to allowing subscribing users to share varying levels of personal information about themselves many social networking services allow the user to express their opinions or preferences for goods or services either by posting a user composed message to the service posting a hyperlink to a product s website to the service or adding information to the service s database to indicate that the user has purchased that product. The user s messages and activities may be made visible to the general public only to other subscribers to the service or only to those subscribers who are identified by the user as friends .

In this further embodiment the address book application on the device may be configured to allow the user to add a further attribute to each address book entry to indicate whether the contact is a friend family business associate supplier customer or other such category of contact. The user may be able to define his or her own labels for contacts or choose from a predefined set of labels such as the foregoing. Generally the user may correlate these different categories of contacts with different levels of intimacy the user may be willing to share deeply personal details with friends some personal details with family only work related details with business associates and barely any information if anything with suppliers or customers . In other words the various categories of contacts that a user may have falls on a spectrum of intimacy where at one extreme the user is willing to share any information that he or she might happen to post to a social networking service and at the other the user is unwilling to share any information at all except for perhaps a work related contact address and a professional curriculum vitae. As a corollary a user may only be willing to hear or read about the personal details of those considered to be friends or family and less interested to hear personal information from business associates or suppliers . Thus various categories of contacts may also fall on a spectrum of interest where at one extreme the user is willing to receive any information about the contact that the contact is willing to share and at the other extreme the user may not wish to receive any information at all.

The user of the communication device may invoke a further action with a banner to convey information or endorsements of the subject matter of the banner to at least a subset of the user s contacts as identified in the address book using either a social networking service or a messaging service. As shown in an instruction may be received at the device to invoke a context menu associated with the banner for example by user actuation of the banner . The context menu may include the option to share information relating to the banner with others. In a first embodiment a single sharing option may be provided at a subsequent step the user may select the social networking or messaging medium to be used to share the information and optionally customize a message or the context menu may list available social networks for example those to which the user is already subscribed or for which a separate application has been installed on the device. The context menu shown in illustrates the former option at . When the device detects an instruction selecting this option to share the information the device may extract or download ancillary information relating to the banner as described above. Then the device may invoke a further application to permit the user to edit a post to a social networking service. The device upon launching the social networking application may automatically populate a field of the post to be edited by the user with a URI or other data extracted from the banner s ancillary data. The URI may be used by a recipient or reader to view the banner itself or to view a resource such as a webpage containing further information. The user may then edit the content of the post to add a content if desired. Alternatively the device may invoke a messaging application to permit the user to edit and send a message such as an e mail SMS or an instant message. The device upon launching the messaging application may automatically populate a message body field with the URI or other data extracted from the banner s ancillary data. Again the user may then edit the message prior to transmission.

The recipients or readers of such a post if the post is transmitted to a social networking service are typically defined using configuration features provided by the social networking service for example the service may have privacy settings that determine who has access to read the user s posts. If the message is transmitted as an e mail SMS or instant message the user may identify the recipients of the message when the message is edited. The device may also be configured to address the message to a default set of recipients based on the contact categories defined by the user in the address book for example the message may only be sent to friends and family . The default set of recipients may also be edited by the user prior to sending.

In still a further embodiment the user may submit a recommendation of the banner . An example of a context menu that may be invoked on the device is shown in . The context menu includes a recommend this item option which the user may select to submit the recommendation. When this option is selected the device may construct and transmit a message to a service for example the service that provided the banner to the device with the user s identifying information. Optionally the user may also be provided with the opportunity to submit a comment or review of the subject matter of the banner as well. The service would store the user s identifying information in association with the banner and thus maintain a record of the user s interest in the banner and or the associated goods services or informational message that is the subject matter of the banner . Transmitting a message to the service may require prior subscription by the user to the service providing the banner this service may be a social networking service. When another subscriber of the service views the same banner the banner may be displayed on the other subscriber s communication device together with a recommendation message as shown in indicating that he first user recommends the banner .

Who sees the recommendation message submitted by the first user may be defined by the user s contact categories as discussed above. For example an option may be configured at the communication device that only friends will be permitted to view the recommendations the user submits to the service. This option if it is configured at the communication device may be transmitted to the service together with the recommendation message. Alternatively the user may log into the service directly and define that the recommendation is only to be viewable by those contacts belonging to the friends category on the service. In a further alternative the address book on the communication device may be synchronized with an address book maintained by the service on the user s behalf so that the user need not assign categories to contacts both on the device and the service. Instead the user need only assign categories in one place and those categories will be synchronized with the other location. Or the device may be configured to only synchronize friends contacts with the service. In this manner the user can define which subset of contacts on the spectrum of intimacy are able to see the user s recommendation messages .

Whether the user of the communication device sees a recommendation from another user may also depend on whether the user has expressed an interest in seeing the recommendations of that other user. In other words the user may define whose recommendations he or she sees based on the recommender s position on the spectrum of interest defined by the user. The user may only be interested in seeing the recommendations of friends and family but no one else. This option may be configured at the device but then may be transmitted to the service for recording against the user s preferences. In future when the service identifies and prepares a banner for transmission to the user s device the service may determine whether any contact of the user s has provided a recommendation and or comment about the banner and whether the user s options permit the recommendation to be displayed on the user s device . If both conditions are satisfied the recommendation may be transmitted to the device at the same time or approximately the same time as the banner .

The user making the recommendation may be given the option to include a review or comment on the banner . In the example of initially only the recommender s identity may be displayed in the recommendation message . Invoking an instruction relating to the message for example by clicking on or otherwise actuating the message may bring up a further view shown in in which the comment or review submitted by that user may be viewed as shown in box . Optionally the comments or reviews of other recommenders may also be displayed at the same time as shown by box . Not every recommender may be identified in a recommendation message as a large number of recommenders may unduly obscure the view of the banner . The recommendation and the review or comment may be delivered to the device at the same time or approximately the same time as the banner . The recommendation and optionally the review or comment may even be embedded within the file comprising the banner itself or in an envelope wrapping the banner file.

A method for implementing this process is shown in . Turning first to at a first banner is displayed to the user at the communication device . The user decides to recommend this banner and invokes a command to indicate that the user recommends the banner detected at . Optionally at this step the user is given the opportunity to enter a comment or review to accompany the recommendation. At the recommendation and the optional comment or review is transmitted to the service for storage. At the service stores the recommendation in association with the banner and the user. At any time during this process the user may define the set of recipients or other users of the service that are permitted to view the recommendation and optional comment.

Referring now to after a recommendation has been registered by the service against a banner the next time that banner is served to a user the service first determines whether any recommendations have been registered in respect of the banner at . If there are no recommendations the service transmits the banner and any ancillary data as explained previously to the user s device at the ancillary data will not include any recommendation data. If there are recommendations at the service compares the recommenders against the list of subscribers from whom the user is willing to receive recommendations i.e. those whom the user has identified as having an interest. If there are no recommenders from whom the user is willing to receive recommendations then again the process moves to . If there are such recommenders however then the service prepares to send recommendation data to the device as well as the banner at . The service may accomplish this by embedding recommendation data relating to those recommenders that the user is interested in into the file comprising the banner or the ancillary data or alternatively by constructing a separate file containing the recommendation data for transmission to the device at .

The systems and methods disclosed herein are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the application. Other variations of the systems and methods described above will be apparent to those in the art and as such are considered to be within the scope of the application.

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

Code adapted to provide the systems and methods described above may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

