---

title: Method and apparatus for small footprint clients for operator-specific service interfaces
abstract: Techniques for small footprint operator-specific network services include determining to obtain and/or process operator data that indicates an operator of a service associated with user equipment. The techniques also include determining to obtain and/or process user data that identifies a user of the user equipment for a gateway provider different from the operator and different from the user. The techniques further include determining to send, to the gateway provider through the communications network, a first message that indicates the operator data and the user data for obtaining a service with an operator-specific interface. In some embodiments, the first message is sent after a random delay to decentralize traffic at the gateway. In some embodiments, the first message is sent when a predetermined fraction of battery life at the user equipment is sufficient to send the first message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08555349&OS=08555349&RS=08555349
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08555349
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20101111
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. However a large fraction of all mobile devices purchased are lost or stolen each year. Either finding their mobile devices or keeping their data or both is important to consumers. When a consumer wants to backup his her personal data e.g. contacts short message service messages call logs network resource bookmarks calendar events notes installed applications settings ring tones among others alone or in combination there are options to backup and retrieve such data on a memory card or personal computer. However memory cards are not available for all mobile devices and are often lost when the mobile device is lost. While backup to a personal computer is more widely supported the latest data is not always synchronized with the personal computer. More network operators are providing such backup and restore services. However operator specific interfaces to these services place a burden on the mobile devices and mobile device manufacturers to load the operator specific variants of such services for many different operators on the same mobile device. Including many operator specific variants thus imposes a large footprint on the scarce resources available in the typical mobile device.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces such as operator specific interfaces for backup and restore services.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining to obtain and or process operator data that indicates an operator of a service associated with user equipment. The method also comprises determining to obtain and or process user data that identifies a user of the user equipment for a gateway provider different from the operator and different from the user. The method further comprises determining to send to the gateway provider a first message that indicates the operator data and the user data for obtaining a service with an operator specific interface.

According to another embodiment a method comprises receiving at a gateway service a first message for obtaining a second service with an operator specific interface from an operator of service associated with user equipment. The gateway service is different from the second service and different from the user equipment. The first message comprises operator data that indicates the operator. The method also comprises determining operator specific data stored at the gateway service based at least in part on the operator data. The method further comprises determining to send to the second service a service request message based at least in part on the operator specific data.

According to another embodiment a method includes facilitating a creation and or a modification of at least one device user interface element at least one device user interface functionality or a combination thereof based at least in part on data and or at least on signal resulting from a local and or remote receiving at a first service a first message for obtaining at least one second service with an operator specific interface from at least one operator of a service associated with the device. The first service is different from the at least one second service and the first message comprises operator data that indicates the at least one operator. The method also includes facilitating based on information data or signal resulting from a local and or remote determining operator specific data stored at the first service based at least in part on the operator data. The method also includes facilitating based on information data or signal resulting from a local and or remote determining to send to the at least one second service at least one service request message based at least in part on the operator specific data.

According to another embodiment a method comprises facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform all or part of one or more of the above methods.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to perform all or part of one or more of the above methods.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for performing all or part of one or more of the above methods.

According to another embodiment a computer program product comprises one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to at least perform all or part of one or more of the above methods.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to perform all or part of one or more of the above methods.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program are disclosed for supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term user refers to for example an entity that uses a service or device through a communications network where an entity can be a person or an organization. A contact refers to for example a different user of the service with whom the user communicates through the service. The term subscriber refers to for example a user who registers with a service by providing some information about the user and who is recognized by the service when the user returns to the service. As used herein the term content refers to any computer readable data such as one or more strings of text contact lists audio data images video clips documents spreadsheets databases graphs maps game data and computer program instructions. An operator refers to an entity that provides some network service such as a cell phone service that is also provided by a different operator and a third party refers to an entity such as a cell phone manufacturer that differs from both the user and the operator.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to backup and restore services for mobile telephone data by operators of mobile telephone networks it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other services such as accounting services customer service services cloud computing services among others alone or in some combination available from any provider of services associated with mobile or fixed user equipment wherein similar services are available from different operators with operator specific interfaces.

Multiple network operators each provide one or more services for their subscribers who use registered UE . For example services through collectively referenced hereinafter as operator services are provided by corresponding multiple different network operators for a particular service e.g. a service for backing up some or all content on the UE of their subscribers on service data stores through respectively collectively referenced hereinafter as data stores or a service for authenticating a user as an actual subscriber based on authentication data stores on data stores . The functions of the services through are accessed through corresponding application programming interfaces APIs through collectively referenced hereinafter as API . A client process on the UE interacts with the API on the corresponding operator service . In many circumstances the API for the same type of service e.g. for subscriber content backup and restore services at data stores or for authentication are different for the different operators. That is in many circumstances the operator service APIs are operator specific.

Also depicted in is an API for network service which is not an operator service but provided by some third party different from both the UE and the operators.

For example contacts backup and restore is becoming one of the key services for operators to reduce churn and increase customer satisfaction. The basic solution is generally based on use of a SyncML engine in the UE which can be configured to interface to operator synchronization backend service for backup and restore of contacts data. In many cases basic contacts sync is not enough to meet consumer needs as more and more personal content e.g. photos messages application data among others is stored primarily on the UE . However any more sophisticated backup and restore service than basic personal information management PIM synchronization generally requires a dedicated operator specific application to be installed on the device.

The manufacturer of the UE does not always know what operator will be providing access to the communications network for an individual UE and therefore cannot always predict which operator specific API will be involved for a particular type of service. In prior approaches the manufacturer installs instructions for a client process for each type of service with multiple operator specific instruction sets called plug ins or installs multiple operator specific clients for each service. Thus when the UE is registered with a particular operator the correct plug in or client is available for the UE to correctly interact with the operator specific API . A disadvantage of this approach is that the instruction sets stored in the memory of the UE and the size of the program that executes becomes large as the number of different operator specific API grows. Such space is limited on many mobile devices that serve as UE . Furthermore earlier manufactured UE are not able to obtain services from later developed operator specific API unless new software is installed on the UE . Re installing operator specific plug ins for widely distributed UE consumes time and network bandwidth.

To address this problem the system of introduces a third party gateway service to intervene between the client process on UE and the operator service . Then the gateway maintains the operator specific plug ins for the various operator provided services on fewer hosts with greater storage and processing capacity. For example the operator specific plug ins are maintained in data structure . In some embodiments different gateways are used for different services. For example in the illustrated embodiment an authentication service with data store functions as a gateway for operator specific authentication service APIs. Thus the illustrated embodiment addresses the challenge of creating a generic user data backup and restore solution for both device and service backend. This solution provides extended synchronization capabilities towards any final operator backend destination along with transparent mechanism for user authentication. The illustrated embodiment isolates device synchronization client on UE from direct connection with operator backend service by creating a solution where third party gateway service and authentication service act as proxy router authentication for synchronizing content. Thus a generic solution supports various operator services without changes on the UE device side. Functionality in UE collects the content to be backed up and sends it via gateway service to the operator network for storage. Restore can be made from the operator backend service directly to the device UE or also through the gateway service . The operator plug ins stored at the third party gateway use the operator services APIs and the client on UE uses only the authentication related API and the Third Party gateway API. The operator service APIs are invisible for device client in these embodiments.

In some embodiments the authentication is very simple. For example the user of a cellular telephone just types the phone s PIN code and as a result access to the both third party service and operator service is allowed. The PIN code is the only thing that the user is prompted to input for authentication and in some embodiments only upon first use of the phone. Such embodiments invoke a Single Sign On SSO system. One or more clients in UE the gateway service and an authentication API of the operator services manage the authentication so that the user is not prompted to do anything else to obtain the backup and restore service or other operator services with operator specific interfaces.

Also depicted in is a Subscriber Identity Module SIM data store for UE . Many mobile terminals include a SIM also called a SIM card. A SIM is a portable memory chip used in some models of cellular telephones. The SIM makes it easy to switch to a new phone by simply sliding the SIM out of the old phone and into the new one. The SIM holds personal identity information cell phone number phone book text messages and other data. The SIM is often provided by a network operator from whom a user obtains access to the network for the user equipment and thus the SIM often indicates the network operator.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE having connectivity to operator services and third party network services and gateway service via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE operator services and third party network service authentication service and gateway service communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

Processes executing on various devices often communicate using the client server model of network communications widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message of one or more data packets including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message of one or more data packets with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server and service refer to the processes rather than the hosts unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. A well known client process available on most devices called nodes connected to a communications network is a World Wide Web client called a web browser or simply browser that interacts through messages formatted according to the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP with any of a large number of servers called World Wide Web WWW servers that provide web pages.

Although processes and data structures of system are depicted as integral blocks arranged on particular nodes connected to network for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more processes or data structures or portions thereof are arranged in a different way or in one or more databases on the same or different nodes or one or more other processes or data structures are included or the system is changed in some combination of ways.

The operator service includes an authentication API and an operator service API for any of one or more services offered by this operator which parallels similar services offered by other operators. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that each of authentication API and operator service API are operator specific.

The authentication service interacts with the operator specific authentication API as indicated by the thick double headed arrow. In the illustrated embodiment the authentication service includes an ID federation module and a single sign on SSO module . The ID federation module provides for sharing user authentication among multiple different service providers including one or more operators of communications networks. Users can be authenticated by one company or website and be recognized and delivered personalized content and services in other locations without having to re authenticate or sign on with a separate username and password.

The SSO module provides for a token that expires after a predetermined time. The token is used to verify that a user has been authenticated for multiple services provided by a single provider such as the third party provider which is different from the UE and the operators of services .

The third party gateway service includes a contact backup module a content backup module and one or more other operator services modules collectively referenced hereinafter as operator service modules . For purposes of illustration it is assumed each operator service module has a corresponding API. Operator specific plug ins for each of these modules are store in operator specific plug ins data structure . The gateway service interacts with the operator specific operator service API as indicated by the thick double headed arrow.

The UE includes a Web browser as described above a client for an operator service a client for the network service and an authentication client . The Web browser and client are as described above.

The operator service client is a client process for a non authentication operator service such as user contact or content backup and restore and includes a gateway agent module . The gateway agent module obtains data to input to the service and sends the data to the third party gateway service as indicated by the thick double headed arrow. In some embodiments the gateway agent module includes a power agent module and a decentralize agent module . The power agent module determines when to start the invocation of the gateway service based on power consumption considerations. The decentralize module determines when to start the invocation of the gateway service based on avoiding congestion at the hosts of the gateway service . The clients on many UE use a single API for a single type of service e.g. use the single API of module for contact backup and restore no matter which operator provides network access and actually performs the service e.g. does the backup and restore .

The authentication client interacts with the authentication service as indicated by the thick double headed arrow. In the illustrated embodiment the authentication client includes a user log in module and a single sign on device enabler SSO DE for interacting with the SSO module .

The user data field includes one or more of a subscriber certificate field a key pair field a bootstrapping transaction identifier B TID field a personal identification number PIN field a username field a password field or a token field .

The subscriber certificate field holds data that indicates a subscriber certificate assigned during initial registration of a user with the operator and stored on the SIM. Similarly the key pair field holds data that indicates a public and private key pair assigned during initial registration of a user with the operator and stored on the SIM.

The B TID field holds data that indicates a value used by some operators to authenticate a user based on data stored on the SIM and as data in the first two fields is assigned during initial registration of a user with the operator and stored on the SIM.

The PIN field holds data that indicates a personal identification number PIN supplied by the user and as data in the first three fields is assigned during initial registration of a user with the operator.

The username field holds data that indicates a username used for authentication by some operators. Similarly the password field holds data that indicates a password used with the username for authentication by some operators.

The token field holds data that indicates a token. The token is assigned by the SSO module and indicates authorization to use at least one service at the gateway provider for a specified time.

The operator data field includes one or more of an operator ID field and a country code field . The operator ID field holds data that uniquely indicates a particular operator at least within a particular value for the country code field . The country code field holds data that uniquely indicates a country where the operator is registered to provide one or more network services. Thus in some embodiments the operator data further comprises a country identifier and an operator identifier. The country identifier indicates a country where the operator provides a service for user equipments. The operator identifier uniquely identifies the operator within the country.

The service input data field holds data used as input for the operator service such as a contacts list or other user content to be backed up at a backup and restore service. For embodiments in which the operator service is authentication the service input data field is omitted and one or more fields in the user data field constitute input data for the service.

Although data messages and fields are depicted in as integral blocks arranged in a particular order for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more messages or fields or portions thereof are arranged in a different order or one or more other fields are included or the message is changed in some combination of ways. For example in some embodiments the service input data field is omitted.

In some embodiments the message with certain fields is sent between an authentication client and an authentication service . In some embodiments the message with the same or different fields is sent from authentication client to operator service client or gateway agent within that client all within UE . In some embodiments the message with the same or different fields is sent from gateway agent to gateway service .

In step an identifier for the operator is determined. In the illustrated embodiment the user s personal identification number PIN is also determined during step . For example when the user starts a cell phone as an example embodiment of UE for the first time the user enters through a keyboard or touch screen the PIN code provided to the user when the user subscribed for service with the operator. Then the authentication client on the cell phone such as a Cherry client on some cell phones of NOKIA CORPORATION of Espoo Finland performs ordinary second generation 2G or third generation 3G authentication and key agreement e.g. Authentication and Key Agreement AKA and determines a session key. AKA is used to securely authenticate a mobile terminal. All this information is stored on the SIM to be retrieved for subsequent authentication without further user involvement. Thus step includes determining user data that identifies a user of the user equipment for a gateway provider different from the operator and different from the user.

During step the authentication client gets the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI number of the SIM. The IMSI is a unique identification associated with all GSM and UMTS network mobile phone users. The first 3 digits are the Mobile Country Code MCC and are followed by the Mobile Network Code MNC either 2 digits European standard or 3 digits North American standard . The remaining digits are the mobile station identification number MSIN within the network s customer base. The authentication client then checks a Cell ID indicted by a base station of the operator with which the cell phone directly communicates and determines whether the phone is logged into that same operator s network. Thus step includes determining operator data that indicates an operator of a service associated with user equipment.

In step a token that authorizes the user to obtain a service from an operator through a third party gateway is determined. In some embodiments authentication and authorization are not involved and step is omitted. In the illustrated embodiment step includes steps through .

In step the user s credentials stored on the SIM are determined. Thus step includes determining more user data that identifies a user of the user equipment for a gateway provider. For example the Cherry client as an embodiment of a component of authentication client reads a Subscriber certificate with the corresponding key pair the lifetime of the key pair and a Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier B TID from the SIM. These data items are stored safely by the authentication client such as an SSO DE along with the user provided PIN the country code and the operator code in a manner to ensure some level of security. If the Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier B TID is not empty then the operator supports SIM based authentication e.g. authentication based on data stored on the SIM. If the Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier B TID is empty then the operator does not support SIM based authentication and a username and password are used instead by the operator for authentication. Thus in some embodiments determining operator data further comprises determining to retrieve operator data from local storage at the user equipment. In the illustrated embodiment the local storage at the user equipment is a subscriber identity module SIM . In other embodiments other fixed or removable local storage media are used such as CD flash drives and non volatile memory.

In step it is determined whether the operator requires a username and password or uses SIM based authentication. For example it is determined whether the B TID is empty or not. If the operator requires a username and password e.g. if B TID is empty then in step an automatically generated username and password are used. The automatically generated username and password are retrieved from local storage by the authentication client e.g. by the SSO DE component of the client . If a username and password are not already stored locally then they are generated automatically without involvement by the user and stored locally. For example an SSO DE component of the authentication client generates a username and password using some commonly available username and password generators. In some of these embodiments the SSO DE component stores all those parameters in a safe place in the device and at least the password is encrypted. A gateway message for authentication is prepared for sending with field omitted or holding a null value. For example the user data field includes the automatically generated username in field and the automatically generated password in field . In various embodiments one or more of the other fields in user data field are omitted or filled with null values. The operator data field includes the country code in field and the operator ID in field . A data structure for storing such information would have fields that parallel the fields in user data field and operator data field . In this embodiment also determining operator data further comprises determining to retrieve operator data from local storage at the user equipment.

In some embodiments if not already stored then the user is prompted for them. An advantage of automatically generated username and password is to reduce delays as a user is prompted for input and the input is provided. Using automatically generated username and password is an example means of achieving the advantage of avoiding delays involved in prompting a user to provide them. Thus step includes determining more user data that identifies a user of the user equipment for the gateway provider.

Thus determining the local data based on a username and a password in step further comprises determining whether the username and password are stored locally at the user equipment. If not then step includes automatically generating at least one of the username and password.

If it is determined in step that the operator does not require a username and password but instead supports SIM based authentication e.g. if B TID is not empty then in step the SIM based credentials such as the PIN code Subscriber certificate and the key pair are used. A different gateway message for authentication is prepared for sending with field omitted or holding a null value. For example the user data field includes data that indicates the subscriber certificate in field data indicating the key pair in field and data indicating the B TID value in field . In various embodiments one or more of the other fields in user data field are omitted or filled with null values. The operator data field includes the country code in field and the operator ID in field . A data structure for storing such information would have fields that parallel the fields in user data field and operator data field .

Thus step includes determining whether authentication is based on data retrieved from a subscriber identity module at the user equipment. Step includes determining the local data based on a username and a password at least one of which is automatically generated at the user equipment if authentication is not based on data retrieved from the subscriber identity module at the user equipment.

In step the authentication client sends the user credentials and operator ID to the authentication service of the third party. For example if a username and password is used the SSO DE component sends a gateway message with data indicating the country code and operator code in fields and respectively and data indicating the generated username and password in fields and respectively. The gateway message is sent to the API of SSO module of the authentication service which stores all parameters excluding the password. On the contrary if SIM based authentication is used the SSO DE component sends a different gateway message with data indicating the country code and operator code in fields and respectively and data indicating the subscriber certificate key pair B TID and PIN in fields and respectively. The gateway message is sent to the API SSO module of the authentication service which stores all parameters. A data structure for storing such information would have fields that parallel the fields in user data field and operator data field . Thus during authentication step includes determining to send to the gateway provider a first message that indicates the operator data and the user data for obtaining a service with an operator specific interface.

In step the authentication client receives and stores the token. For example the API of SSO module returns the access token to the SSO DE component of the authentication client which stores the token in association with the related parameters that are already stored. A data structure for storing such information would have fields that parallel the fields in user data field and operator data field .

In some embodiments the token data e.g. indicated in field serves as the user data. In such embodiments determining the user data further comprises determining to send to the gateway provider through the communications network an authentication message and receiving from the gateway provider token data in response to the authentication massage. The authentication message indicates the operator data and local data including local data retrieved from the SIM or locally generated and locally stored username and password data. When the data retrieved from the SIM is used determining to send the authentication message further comprises determining the local data based at least in part on data retrieved from a subscriber identity module at the user equipment. The token data indicates authorization to use at least one service at the gateway provider for a specified time. In some embodiments that include the user provided PIN in the authentication message determining to send the authentication message further comprises determining the local data based at least in part on data received at the user equipment as input from the user of the user equipment.

In step software updates are downloaded from the gateway. For example operator service client is activated on the UE and opens a user interface portion of a screen on the UE such as user interface for backup and restore of contacts and content for the user. Gateway agent forms a gateway message with the token in field the operator ID in field the country code in field and data indicating the service in field such as data indicating a particular API of gateway service . Thus in step the first message further comprises data that indicates the service with an operator specific interface. This message is sent to the gateway service . In response the gateway returns any software updates for the operator service client including any logos for the operator or specials or other advertisements for display in the user interface on UE . In response the operator service client executes the updated software with any updated display data. Thus the downloads include operator specific branding and possible modifications to existing apps new widgets etc. The gateway agent calls an application installer module on the UE to install those possible additions. Now the user can see both operator and third party services in the user interface such as a home screen with possible operator branding.

In step service input data is accumulated. For example the contacts or content or both to be backed up are retrieved from local storage and queued up in one or more messages for sending to the gateway. In some embodiments user input is acquired during step to indicate the service data to accumulate. For example the user indicates content to be backed up automatically and a schedule for backups or manually indicates particular content to be backed up at a particular time. The backup and restore client collects the data from different sources for example applications that are backup enabled store their data . It is assumed for purposes of illustration that timelines e.g. SMS messages multimedia message service MMS messages call logs instant messenger IM messages and photos are also backed up. It is anticipated that user input can dynamically indicate new data types for backup. In some embodiments to save bandwidth only changed data is backed up and if no changes then no data is accumulated.

In step it is determined whether conditions are satisfied to invoke the operator service such as whether enough changed data has been accumulated to warrant calling the operator backup service. In an illustrated embodiment the conditions to be satisfied include amount of data battery power and time since last backup as described in more detail below with reference to . If it is determined in step that conditions to invoke the operator service are not satisfied then control returns to step to accumulate service input data.

Otherwise in step a gateway message that includes the token the operator data and the service input data is sent to the gateway. For example gateway message is sent with data indicating the token in field data indicating the operator ID in field and the country code in field and data indicating the contact backup and restore service API and the accumulated contacts to be backed up in field . Thus in non authenticating embodiments step includes determining to send to the gateway provider a first message that indicates the operator data and the user data for obtaining a service with an operator specific interface. The first message further comprises input data for the service. In the illustrated embodiment the service with an operator specific interface includes a service to backup and restore data for the user equipment by the operator.

In step confirmations is received that the service is performed. For example based on the operator data the API for the gateway s contact backup module applies the corresponding operator specific plug in for the service and processes the service input data in field into a form appropriate for the operator specific service API . The API indicates when the service is complete and that result is returned to the content backup module where it is returned to the operator service client on UE . In some embodiments on the device side there is a third party notification client as part of gateway agent that sends and receives notifications from the gateway backend handled by a third party notification engine concerning changes to the backed up restored data. The notification client causes the result to be presented to the user. Thus in some embodiments the method further includes determining to present on the user equipment data received from the gateway provider in response to the first message.

In step it is determined if end conditions are satisfied. If so then the process ends. For example if all operator service clients are shut down the process ends. Otherwise control passes to step to determine if the token has expired. If so control passes back to step described above to determine the next token for authorizing services through the gateway. If the token has not expired then control passes back to step described above to accumulate any service input data.

In step battery consumption rates to obtain a service are determined based on the measure of service input data. For example the battery drain experienced in past efforts to backup a megabyte of contact or content data is retrieved from a data structure. This test is done to ensure that the backup can complete before the current power supply is depleted and without compromising other functions of the UE . From a power consumption point of view it is desirable to ensure that those operations associated with obtaining a service are not constant and especially if those operations take long time it is desirable to ensure there is enough power left for these operations to keep data integrity in all circumstance both in the device and also on the gateway side.

For example in some embodiments the gateway agent includes a power agent module . The power agent module earlier collected some information from previous operations such as start and end time for operation size of data uploaded downloaded battery level before the operation starts and battery level when the operation ends and bearer used WLAN 3G 3.5G or 2G .

In step a measure of the service input data is determined. For example the number of bytes of contact or content data to be backed up is determined in step .

In step it is determined whether a manual command has been issued to invoke the operator service. For example it is determined whether a user has input a command to backup a particular file or group of files at a particular time. If so then battery life is considered as described below with respect to step through step . Otherwise control passes to step .

In step it is determined if sufficient input data has been accumulated to invoke the service automatically. For example it is determined if enough changes to automatically back up contacts data or content data have been accumulated to warrant backup or if a scheduled backup time has been reached. If not then in step it is determined that conditions are not satisfied to invoke the operator service and control returns to step as described above to continue to accumulate service input data.

If it is determined in step that sufficient service input data has been accumulated or if a manual command to invoke the service has been received in step then control passes to step . In step the current life of the battery is determined. For example the battery level is determined. Some service operations such as backup of content including photographs audio or video might cause significant power consumption and cause breaks to the data integrity both in the device e.g. UE and backend such as gateway service or operator service or both if a connection is broken due to emptying the battery during the ongoing backend operation.

In step it is determined whether a predetermined fraction of available battery life is sufficient to complete sending the service input data and responding to receiving notification of completion or failure. A fraction rather than all of the battery life is considered in order to leave sufficient power for other critical functions of the user equipment. For example in some embodiments the predetermined fraction is 10 of the available battery power. Thus just before the operation to invoke the operator service is started the power agent module of gateway agent module checks how long such an operation usually takes based on the amount of service input data accumulated. In the illustrated embodiment these operations are allowed to increase the overall power consumption less than 10 . The power agent module checks if similar size packages have been handled earlier. If yes the power agent module checks the battery levels start and end of operation for such earlier operations and compares that with 10 of the current available battery level. In some embodiments how long the earlier operation has taken is also considered. Based on the similar earlier cases time consumed and the current battery level the power agent module calculates the needed battery power for this operation. If there is enough power left the power agent module updates that it is allowed to queue this operation and control passes to step and following to perform the operation. In case a similar size package of accumulated input data was not experienced earlier the determination is made based on the closest values or interpolations thereof and the current battery level.

Thus in step determining to send the first message further comprises determining to send the first message when a predetermined fraction of battery life at the user equipment is sufficient to send the first message.

If there is not enough power for such operation within the predetermined fraction then in step the user is informed e.g. using the same indication when the battery is empty that the device needs to be charged. If the device is not connected to a charger in time and the operation is still waiting then it is determined in step that conditions are not satisfied to invoke the operator service. In some embodiments the operation is canceled and a new time for this operation is determined.

In some embodiments such as embodiments in which the UE does not rely on battery power but has an unlimited external power supply steps through are omitted.

UE originated operations especially recurrent operations might cause significant traffic load in the backend even if load balancers are used for hosts of the gateway service if those occur almost at or near the same time e.g. at end of business in the same time zone . Steps and address the challenge of creating methods that decentralize the device originated operations so that those will not converge at the backend in a short time interval. Thus in step determining to send the first message further comprises determining to send the first message at a time after a random delay. Such steps are an example means to achieve the advantage of helping to prevent possible overload conditions at the backend.

In step a random delay is determined. This is done in some embodiments to prevent the hosts for gateway service from being deluged with requests from many user devices such as UE at popular times. A module inside the gateway agent module called the decentralize agent module is responsible for the random delay. In case of automatic operation on a particular schedule the decentralize agent module calculates a time when that operation should be started. In step the decentralize agent module calculates the start time for operation based on the current time the device start time and the random delay. In some embodiments the random delay is determined to be within a configurable maximum delay e.g. 24 hours or 30 minutes or 10 seconds . In some embodiments there is also a minimum time between similar operations e.g. between successive invocations of the operator backup and restore service. In some embodiments the minimum time is also a configurable time e.g. half hour . In such embodiments the module retains data that indicates when the previous operation took place and may increase the random delay so that the next invocation of the service does not occur before the configured minimum time has passed.

In some embodiments for manual invocation of the operator service the decentralize agent module uses shorter time periods to calculate the start time for the operation based on the current time and the random delay. For example a predetermined maximum delay is shorter such as one hour and in some embodiments the minimum time between similar operations is also shorter. In some embodiments to prevent user displeasure the start time for operation is presented to the user during step e.g. the text The contact backup operation will start at dd.mm.yyyy hh mm ss is presented on a screen of UE where dd.mm.yyyy indicates the day month and year respectively and hh mm ss indicates the hour minute and second respectively.

In step it is determined whether the current time exceeds the random delayed time. If so it is unlikely that device originated operations are started so closely in time on many user devices. Thereby such operations become sufficiently decentralized within a time zone to prevent overload in hosts of backend services. If not then control passes back to step described above to repeat testing conditions for stating the operation.

If it is determined in step that the current time exceeds the random delayed time then in step it is determined if a network connection is currently available. If not control again passes back to step described above. If a network connection is available then in step it is determined that conditions are satisfied to invoke the operator service and control passes to step described above with reference to .

In step a message is received that indicates user data operator data and an operator service such as contact backup and restore. For example a message from gateway client directed to the API of contact backup module is received which indicates the token in field the operator ID in field and the country code in field . By virtue of directing the message to the API of contact backup module the operator service is indicated. Thus step includes receiving at a first service a first message for obtaining a second service with an operator specific interface from an operator of a service associated with user equipment. The first message comprises operator data that indicates the operator. Recall as the terms are used herein the first service e.g. the service of the third party is different from the second service of the operator and different from the user equipment.

In step the gateway component returns any software updates for the operator service client including any logos for the operator or specials or other advertisements for display in the user interface on UE . In some embodiments the gateway agent is implemented in a way that it is device platform e.g. UE agnostic and offers a consistent framework which enables the platform specific details to be hidden. In some embodiments on the device side there is a third party notification client as part of gateway agent that sends receives notifications from backend handled by a third party notification engine concerning changes to the backed up restored data.

In some embodiments for the authentication service the token is not yet available and other fields in the user data field are filled. In some embodiments for the authentication service step and step are omitted.

In step a message is received that indicates user data operator data and operator service input data such as contact data for contact backup and restore. For example a message from gateway client directed to the API of contact backup module is received which indicates the token in field the operator ID in field the country code in field and accumulated changes in contact data in field . By virtue of directing the message to the API of the contact backup module the operator service is indicated.

In authentication service during step a gateway message is received with fields and filled in user data field for SIM based authentication or with fields and filled otherwise. In both cases the operator data field is also included. The service input data is omitted because the user data field provides all the input involved for authentication.

Thus step like step includes receiving at a first service a first message for obtaining a second service with an operator specific interface from an operator of a service associated with user equipment. The first message comprises operator data that indicates the operator. Recall as the terms are used herein that the first service e.g. the service of the third party is different from the second service of the operator and different from the user equipment.

In step operator specific plug ins are invoked based on the operator data to prepare operator specific API inputs based on the service input data provided in field . Step includes a call to the operator specific API e.g. operator service API . Thus the third party gateway has a plug in based approach that enables possible operator specific adaptations. As a result operators are able to use their own and even some proprietary protocol for the service such as contact or content backup and restore. In that case it is task for the operator specific plug in at third party gateway service to map the message request responses to the corresponding operator specific requests responses. These possible operator specific protocols are totally invisible on device side thus reducing the footprint on the UE . For example using a generic contact backup perhaps provided by the equipment manufacturer as the third party the operator service client collects the contact related data and involves the gateway agent module to send the contacts related data using the generic API of contact backup module eventually to the operator network API via third party gateway service . The third party gateway service recognizes based on the given country code and operator code the correct operator specific plug in and forwards the requests to that plug in which reformats as needed for the operator service API .

Similarly the gateway agent in a content backup and restore client sends the timelines and photos backup message using the API of content backup and restore module towards operator network API via third party gateway service and is received during step . Again using the country code and operator code parameters in fields and respectively as the basis to recognize the corresponding operator the gateway service during step passes the message towards corresponding operator plug in that converts the data for the operator specific API . Other operator service clients and corresponding APIs of other operator services are similarly engaged to provide other operator services with operator specific API while maintaining a small footprint on UE .

In authentication service during step using the country code and operator code parameters in fields and respectively as a basis to recognize the corresponding operator the gateway service during step passes the message towards corresponding operator plug in which converts the data for the operator specific authentication API .

Thus step includes determining operator specific data stored at the first service of the third party based at least in part on the operator data. In some embodiments the operator specific data further comprises instructions for steps to be performed by the first service of the third party . Step also includes determining to send to the second service of the operator a service request message based at least in part on the operator specific data. For a backup and restore operator service API the second service is a backup or restore of user data. For the authentication operator service API the second service is authentication. In authentication embodiments the first message further indicates user data that indicates credentials of a user of the user equipment. In these embodiments determining operator specific data further comprises determining operator specific user credentials for authentication by the operator based at least in part on the operator data and the user data. Furthermore determining to send the service request message further comprises determining to send the service request message that indicates the operator specific user credentials.

In step operator specific plug ins are invoked based on the operator data to prepare outputs for operator service client based on operator specific API outputs. The outputs are includes in a message to be sent to the gateway agent for the operator service client . In some embodiments a third party notification engine formats the message concerning changes to the backed up restored data. In authentication service a token is generated during step based on a successful authentication message received from operator specific authentication API . Thus in authentication embodiments the method further comprises determining to send to the user equipment token data that indicates authorization to obtain services if the user is authenticated and the first message received in step further indicates the token data.

In step the output message indicating the service provided is sent to the client through the gateway agent. In some embodiments the message is sent to the third party notification client as part of gateway agent which sends and receives notifications from the backend handled by the third party notification engine. In authentication service the token is passed to the single sign on device enabler SSO DE in the authentication client .

In step it is determined whether end conditions are satisfied. If so the process ends. Otherwise control passes aback to step to receive another message from the same or different client on the same or different user device.

During action the authentication client determines user credentials and operator ID as described above with respect to step through step . The user credentials and operator ID are send in one or more messages such as in a gateway message with the token field empty and the service input data field also empty.

During action the operator specific plug in for authentication is determined based on the operator ID and used to convert the user credentials to a form appropriate for operator specific authentication API as described above for step . The converted user credentials are sent in one or more messages to the operator authentication API . The authentication result in sent back in one or more messages .

If the authentication result indicates successful authentication then during action a token is generated for obtaining services for the user of client from the third party for a predetermined time. The token is sent to the authentication client in one or more messages .

When the client is launched the gateway agent in client obtains the token and the operator ID in one or more messages . The gateway agent in client then notifies the gateway service of the launch in one or more messages that indicate the token and the operator ID. For example a gateway message directed to the API of contact backup module in gateway service includes data that indicates the token in field and data that indicates the operator ID in field and country code in field . This message is sent during step at the client and received during step at the contact backup component of the gateway service

In one or more messages updates with any labels are sent to the client through the gateway agent module during step on the gateway service and received during step at the client . The software updates if any are installed and the logos or other promotions or advertisements are presented at the user s device UE .

Action determines to send service input data as described above with respect to steps through of the client process in . Recall that step includes the steps of in some embodiments.

In one or more messages the token and operator ID and service input data is sent from the gateway agent module of client to the corresponding component API of gateway service . Because the service input data can be voluminous e.g. in the case of content backup the messages are depicted with an extra wide arrow. The action includes determining to decentralize the messages and ensure that battery life on the UE is sufficient to complete the operation.

In action the appropriate component of gateway service determines the correct operator plug in based on the operator ID and converts the service input data to the form for the operator specific service API . The converted service input data is input to the operator service API in one or more messages as described above for step .

Notification of the result of the service is sent from the operator specific service API in one or more messages as described above for step . In action the appropriate component of gateway service uses the correct operator plug in and converts the service output data from the operator specific service API to the form for the client as described above for step . In step one or more messages with notification of the result of the service are sent to the client .

The illustrated embodiments help end users to backup their data to their operators networks with a small impact on the scarce resources of most mobile terminal. This service protects the users data against loss due to a lost or changed mobile phone and allows restoring the data from a previous phone to a new one at least for the data that is still valid for the new phone . Users without a personal computer can also backup their personal data to the safe place. No operator specific variants are needed on the user equipment for these backup and restore services. In the illustrated embodiments all third party services can make use of the same authentication mechanism that is used by the operator. For example the user can be offered a single sign on SSO experience for both third party services and operator services with minimal user intervention. In the illustrated embodiment the user just types the PIN code nothing else.

The processes described herein for small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals which carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces from the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to support small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of supporting small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to support small footprint clients for network services with operator specific interfaces. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

