---

title: Method and apparatus for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual
abstract: Techniques for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual include receiving first data that indicates contacts of a first user at first services. Contact identifiers for a different second user at second services are determined based at least in part on the contacts. Second data that indicates an association among the second user and the candidate contact identifiers is sent to the first user. In some embodiments on a client, techniques include determining to send first data that indicates contacts of a first user at first services; and receiving second data. The second data indicates an association among a different second user and candidate contact identifiers for the second user at second services based at least in part on the contacts. A prompt is presented for the first user to approve an association between the second user and a candidate contact identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424556&OS=09424556&RS=09424556
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09424556
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20101014
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. In many popular network services such as email Short Message Service SMS messaging also called text messaging and social networks with various posting strategies a user communicates with other users of those services who are called contacts of the user. Typically each such service invites a user registering for the service to identify himself or herself with a user name for all future interactions with the service so that messages by and for each user can be properly directed. If a chosen user name is not available the user is invited to generate a new name. As the number of available network services proliferates and users register for several of them multiple user names are adopted by the same individual entity whether an organization or person . Consequently the same entity can appear with different identifiers on several contact lists of a user on several network services. It becomes a burden for the user to link the multiple different identifiers of one entity on several different contact lists for different network services. Thus it becomes tedious time consuming and otherwise difficult to perform several network functions such as directing a post to one individual on all available services or recognize or otherwise coordinate the information such as status posts and profile information like age interests music tastes location received from different identifiers that represent the same individual entity on different services.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving first data that indicates a plurality of contacts of a first user at a first plurality of services. The method also comprises determining a plurality of candidate contact identifiers for a different second user at a second plurality of services based at least in part on contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services. The method further comprises determining to send second data that indicates an association among the second user and the plurality of candidate contact identifiers.

According to another embodiment a method comprises determining to send first data that indicates a plurality of contacts of a first user at a first plurality of services. The method also comprises receiving second data that indicates an association among a different second user and a plurality of candidate contact identifiers for the second user at a second plurality of services based at least in part on contacts of the first user at the first plurality of service. The method further comprises determining to present a prompt for the first user to approve an association between the second user and one or more of the candidate contact identifiers.

According to another embodiment a method comprises facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform at least the steps of at least one of the above methods.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to perform the steps of at least one of the above methods.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to perform the steps of at least one of the above methods.

According to another embodiment a computer program product includes one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to at least perform the steps of at least one of the above methods.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for performing each step of at least one of the above methods.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program are disclosed for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term user refers to an entity that uses a network service through a communications network where an entity can be a person or an organization. A contact refers to a different user of the service with whom the user communicates through the service and whose identifier is stored in a user profile data structure maintained by the service for the user. Thus a contact is a second user who is associated with the first user through the corresponding service. Not every user is a contact of the contact. For example while Bob may be a contact of Alice because Bob s identifier is stored in Alice s profile for a particular service Alice might not be a contact of Bob because her identifier is not stored in Bob s profile for the particular service. The term aliases refers to multiple different contact identifiers for the same entity at one or more network services an alias refers to one of the aliases. Although various embodiments are described with respect to social network services accessed through a mobile terminal it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other network services and user equipment. Furthermore while example embodiments are described in which multiple contact identifiers are linked in a corresponding number of network services in some embodiments two or more contact identifiers are linked in the same service e.g. Bob may have two accounts in the same network service and such linkages are also found using some embodiments of these techniques.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to link multiple contact identifiers of an individual. Each network service through collectively called services hereinafter maintains a user profile data store through respectively collectively called user profiles hereinafter with records for each user of the corresponding service. The user profiles through include contact list fields through respectively collectively called contact list fields . Each contact list associates each user with one or more contacts with each contact identified by a corresponding contact identifier ID . It is assumed in the following for purposes of illustration that the contact ID for an entity is the same as the user ID for that entity but in some embodiments the user ID and contact ID of one entity in one service are different.

The user profile data store for each service provides storage for data that indicates information about each user such as the user identifier such as number actual name a user name or an alternative name if any to use as a contact ID a billing method one or more addresses such as a postal address one or more phone numbers an electronic mail address an icon or avatar to represent the user an age gender political or religious persuasion tastes in media such as music videos books among other information of value for providing the service . The contact list holds data that indicates identifiers of zero or more contacts with whom the user communicates through the service . One service may have no information about the user profile or user ID or contacts list of the same user on a different service. For example service has no information about the contents of the user profile data store including the user ID or contact list of the same user on service

Each user equipment UE includes one or more client processes such as a World Wide Web browser described below to present Web pages provided by one or more services e.g. service through or one or more application clients that are configured for interacting with one or more corresponding services e.g. services through .

According to an illustrated embodiment the system includes a contact merging service that links two or more contact identifiers in one or more contacts lists on a corresponding one more services for a user who subscribes to the service e.g. user of UE . In some embodiments the linkage is presented as suggestions to a user to approve. In some embodiments when confidence in a linkage is sufficiently high the linkage is automatically treated as if approved. In the illustrated embodiment the links are stored in a contact merging data store . In various embodiments the service communicates with the user device e.g. UE through the browser or a special contact merging client process on the UE or on other UE e.g. client process on UE . In some embodiments the client process or one or more services access the functions of the contact merging service though an application programming interface API .

Although fields and data stores and devices and processes such as services and clients are depicted as integral blocks in a particular arrangement in the illustrated embodiment depicted in and subsequent drawings and in other embodiments one or more fields data stores device and processes or portions thereof are arranged in a different order in the same or different or different number of devices or data structures or databases or are omitted or one or more additional fields data stores devices and processes are added or the system is changed in come combination of ways. For example in some embodiments one or more of the contact lists are not integral blocks but a portion of each is associated with other user profile information in different user records of the user profiles data store . In some embodiments all or part of the contact list is stored in the UE . In some embodiments the client is not a separate process as shown but is a module within browser or application client . It is contemplated that the functions of these processes may be combined or separated in one or more processes or performed by other processes of equivalent functionality.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE having connectivity to network services and contact merging service via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE network services and contact merging service communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

Processes executing on various devices often communicate using the client server model of network communications widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server and service refer to the processes rather than the hosts unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. A well known client process available on most devices called nodes connected to a communications network is a World Wide Web client called a web browser or simply browser that interacts through messages formatted according to the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP with any of a large number of servers called World Wide Web WWW servers that provide web pages. As depicted in the UEs include browsers .

The entity aliases data structure includes an entity entry field for each entity learned by the service as indicated by entity entry field and ellipsis. Recall that an entity is a person or organization that has registered as a user with one or more of the network services . Each entity entry field includes an entity identifier ID field a service field for each service with which the entity has registered and a multiservice contacts field for each contact of the user who has multiple identifiers. The entity ID field holds data that uniquely indicates an entity at the service such as a sequential number assigned as entity entries are added to the data structure or a user ID as learned by the service in a particular one of the services such as the most popular service with sequential numbers used for entities that are not part of that particular service. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that Alice registers with the contact merging service and is given entity ID 1001. Any user who registers with the contact merging service is called a subscribed user hereinafter to distinguish from users of network services who do not register with the service .

The service field holds data that indicates the alias for the entity at one of the services . A separate service field is included for each service discovered for the entity as indicated by ellipsis. Services with which a particular entity has registered are discovered using one or more of the methods described in more detail below with reference to and . In the illustrated embodiment the service field includes two or more of a service identifier ID field an entity alias field a source field a credentials field and a contacts field . In some embodiments the service field also includes a privacy flag field as described below for a multiservice contacts field .

The service ID field holds data that indicates a particular service such as FACEBOOK or FLICKR . Any method may be used to indicate the service such as a name a universal resource indicator URI string or a pointer to a table that includes such information. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that while registering with service Alice has indicated that she registered with service and thus service ID field holds data indicating SERVICEA.

The entity alias field holds data that indicates an identifier for the entity indicated in field as registered at the service indicated in field . For purposes of illustration it is assumed that while registering with service Alice has indicated that she registered with service using the user ID ALICE123 and thus alias field holds data indicating ALICE123.

The source field holds data that indicates the source of the information in fields and . It is assumed for purposes of illustration that valid values for field include data indicating SELF if the information is provided by the entity indicated in field . A value of SELF is equivalent to a publisher provided alias. Other valid values for source field include OTHER if the information is provided by a different subscribing user and MODEL if the information is inferred by a matching model based on data associated with the alias. A value of OTHER is equivalent to a reader provided alias. In some embodiments the source field holds data indicating other valid values such as READER rather than OTHER. For example in some embodiments MODEL is replaced by one of three other valid values STRING or CONTENT or RELATIONS. STRING indicates that the alias in field is inferred by the matching model based on the string of characters that make up the alias CONTENT indicates that the alias in field is inferred by the matching model based on content of communications posted on the service by the alias and RELATIONS indicates that the alias in field is inferred by the matching model based on social relationships such as similarity of networks of contacts of users in different services as described in more detail below with reference to . In some embodiments the source field holds data that indicates a confidence level e.g. 100 for a self publisher provided alias and somewhat less depending on the input from one or more readers or a similarity measure in the matching model or some combination. In some embodiments if reader supplied the source field also holds data that indicates which other subscribing user added the alias to the entity entry . In the illustrated example because Alice provided the alias field holds data indicating SELF. The source field is an example means of achieving the advantage of indicating confidence that a suggested alias is correct for the entity of interest.

The credentials field holds data that indicates authentication credentials for the entity indicated in field to access the service indicated in field using the alias in field . For example in some embodiments the credentials include a user name that is the same or different from the alias in field and a password. In the illustrated embodiments the credentials field is empty or omitted unless the entity indicated in the entity ID field is a subscriber to service . If the entity is a contact discovered from a subscriber the entity might not be subscriber and the entity s credentials are not known. In the example embodiment Alice is a subscriber to service and the credentials field holds data that indicates her password at service . The credentials field is an example means of achieving the advantage of allowing the contact merging service to access information at the network services .

The contacts field holds data that indicates the contacts in the user profile for the alias indicated in field at the service indicated in field . As described in more detail below the service uses the credentials in field to obtain the contacts that are stored in field . In the illustrated embodiments the contacts field is empty or omitted unless the entity indicated in the entity ID field is a subscriber to service . If the entity is a contact discovered from a subscribed user the entity might not be a subscribed user and the entity s credentials and contacts are not known. In the example embodiment Alice is a subscriber to service and the contacts field holds data that indicates her contacts at service such as ROBERTFLIES123 CHUCKIETOO DAVIDDANCING etc. . The contacts field is an example means of achieving the advantage of allowing the contact merging service to aggregate the contacts of all subscribed users.

As described in more detail below with reference to an entity entry is included in entity aliases for each entity discovered. If any of contacts in field use an alias that is not already in some field of some entity entry then a new entity ID is generated for an entity which is not a subscriber to service and a new entity entry is added to the data structure . Data indicating the contact ID is placed in alias field and data indicating OTHER is placed in field . Such a non subscribing entity will have an empty or omitted credential field and an empty or omitted contacts field . For purposes of illustration it is assumed that ROBERTFLIES234 is not already in any alias field so a new entity ID 2002 is established for this user and a service field is generated with SERVICEA indicated in field and ROBERFLIES234 in field OTHER in field and fields and empty or omitted. In some embodiments in which the source field also holds data that indicates which other user added the alias to the entity entry the source field also indicates entity ID or in some embodiments the identifier in the same service e.g. ALICE123 .

The multiservice contacts field holds data that indicates candidate linkages among the contact identifiers that the entity indicated in field is allowed to see. In some embodiments e.g. in some embodiments without privacy filters field is omitted. In the illustrated embodiment there is a multiservice contacts field for each entity who is a contact of the entity indicated in field as indicated by the ellipsis. Each multiservice contacts field includes alias field and service identifier ID field and flag field for each alias of the entity as indicated by ellipsis collectively referenced hereinafter as alias fields service ID fields and flag fields respectively .

The alias field holds data that indicates the contact identifier for the entity on one of the services. For example alias field holds data that indicates ROBERTFLIES234. The service ID field holds data that indicates the corresponding service. For example service ID indicates SERVICEA.

The flag field holds privacy filter data that indicates whether the user indicated in field is allowed to see the alias indicated in field and if so whether the source of the association can be revealed. For example the flag field holds one of four values an ALLOWED value indicates that the entity in field is allowed to see the alias and the source of the alias a NOSOURCE value indicates that the entity in field is allowed to see the alias but not the source a PENDING value indicates that the release of the alias to the entity in field is awaiting approval from the entity indicated in field and a DISALLOWED value indicates that the alias may not be released to the user indicated in field . The flag field is an example means of achieving the advantage of enforcing a privacy policy before releasing multiple aliases of a contact. In some embodiments the service field holds a field similar to the flag field that indicates the privacy flags for each of the other subscribing users and multiservice contacts fields are omitted.

The entity aliases data structure is an example means to achieve the advantage of aggregating contacts from multiple users subscribing to the service and passing information gleaned by one subscribed user to other subscribed users of the service .

Each parameter entry field includes a similarity parameter field and one or more threshold value fields or more indicated by ellipsis collectively referenced hereinafter as threshold value field . Each threshold value field is associated with a user disagree field or more indicated by ellipsis respectively collectively referenced hereinafter as user disagree field . In the illustrated embodiment each threshold value field is also associated with a user agree field or more indicated by ellipsis respectively collectively referenced hereinafter as user agree field . In some embodiments one of set of either user disagree fields or user agree fields are omitted.

The similarity parameter field holds data that indicates a similarity measure such as a string similarity measure that indicates how similar two text strings are an image similarity measure a network similarity measure or any other measures of similarity between two sets of data including vector distance measures goodness of fit etc. The threshold value field holds data that indicates a threshold value for the similarity measure indicated in field such that when similarity exceeds the threshold the model finds a probability of a match between a known alias of an entity and a candidate contact identifier. The user disagree field or user agree field holds data that indicates how often users presented with the candidate matches disagree or agree respectively with the model candidates. For example in some embodiments the user disagree field holds data that indicates an average percent of candidate matches that a user determines are not a match. Similarly in some embodiments the user agree field holds data that indicates an average percent of candidate matches that a user determines are a match i.e. belong to the same entity. By tracking the user agreement or disagreement at different values of the threshold an optimum threshold can be selected that provides candidate contact identifiers most likely to be accepted by users.

The matching model parameters data structure is an example means to achieve the advantage of adapting a matching model to learn the best thresholds for various similarity measures based on user responses. In some embodiments the thresholds are predetermined and the matching model parameters data structure is omitted. In some embodiments no matching model is used and matching model parameters data structure is omitted.

In one or more messages the credentials for a user of UE called User A hereinafter for up to N services are sent. The credentials may be obtained by the client on UE in any manner such as by presenting a prompt within a user interface UI e.g. as described below with reference to by client or through browser or application client . Similarly in one or more messages the credentials for a user of UE called User M hereinafter for up to N services are sent. Messages and and others sent by clients indicated by ellipsis are collective referenced hereinafter as credentials messages and contain fields that indicate the service and the user credentials such as user name and password as depicted in described below.

This data is stored by the contact merging service e.g. in entity aliases data structure . For example in one entity entry field the entity ID field holds data that indicates User A followed by N service fields . The first service field indicates SERVICEA in field the User A user name in field SELF in source field user credentials for service in field . At this time the contacts field is empty. Similarly in the Nth service field the service field indicates SERVICEN in field the User A user name for this service in field SELF in source field and user credentials for service in field . Corresponding entity entry fields are produced and stored for each of other subscribed user through User M. It is assumed for purposes of illustration that M users subscribe to service but that many more contacts of the M users are not subscribers to service .

In one or more messages the credentials for User A though User M at service are used by the service to sign onto service . Similarly in one or more messages the credentials for User A though User M at service are used by the service to sign onto service . Messages and and others to services indicated by ellipsis are collective referenced hereinafter as sign in messages and contain fields that indicate the user credentials such as user name and password for the corresponding service.

In one or more messages the contacts for User A though User M are received by the service from service . Similarly in one or more messages the contacts for User A though User M are received by the service from service . Messages and and others from services indicated by ellipsis are collective referenced hereinafter as service contact messages .

This data is stored by the contact merging service e.g. in entity aliases data structure . For example in one entity entry field contacts field in service field holds data that indicates the contacts of User A at service . Similarly in the Nth service field the contacts field holds data that indicates the contacts of User A at service . Corresponding entity entry fields are produced and stored for each subscribed user through User M. For each contact who is not a subscribed user of service there is not already any alias field that contains the contact identifier so an entity ID field is generated for that contact and an entity entry field is added to the entity aliases data structure . The service ID field holds data that indicates the service where the contact ID is a contact the alias field holds the contact identifier and the source field holds OTHER or READER and in some embodiments the alias or entity IDs of the subscribed users who have the contact identifier in their contacts list. The credentials field and contacts field for the contact who is not or not yet a subscriber are empty.

In one or more messages the contacts for User A for up to N services are sent from the contacts matching service to the client of User A on UE . Similarly in one or more messages the contacts for User M for up to N services are sent from the contacts matching service to the client of User M on UE . Messages and and others sent to clients indicated by ellipsis are collective referenced hereinafter as client contact messages and contain fields that indicate the service and the contact identifiers.

In some embodiments with a matching model during process the contacts from different services are analyzed to determine which are likely to be the same. Any method may be used to do the matching. For example in some embodiments data associated with each contact identifier for an entity that is not a subscribed user in a first service is compared to data associated with the contact identifiers for contacts who are not subscribed users in a second service. In some embodiments string matching is used to compare the contact identifiers themselves. For example JohnD in service and JohnDoe in service share a string of five characters and therefore are candidate aliases for the same entity. In some embodiments semantic concepts are used rather than string matching. For example using semantic concepts robert and Bob are synonyms for the same name Robert. Similarly Fly and flies represent the same semantic concept of moving through the air or an insect that does so . Thus the contact identifiers ROBERTFLIES234 in service and FLYBOB789 in service both have the same two semantic concepts and therefore are similar enough to be candidate aliases of the same entity.

In some embodiments other data associated with each contact is compared. For example communications initiated by the contacts in different services are compared. If string matching or semantic concepts show a high degree of similarity then the two contact identifiers associated with those communications are candidate aliases of the same entity. In some embodiments posted images can be compared using several methods such as cross correlation two dimensional Fourier analysis wavelet analysis and other processes well known in image processing. If the similarity of the posted images is high enough then the associated contact identifiers are candidate aliases for the same entity. In some embodiments public profile data for the two contacts are compared e.g. similar age regions music tastes or other user profile properties publicized through the service is used to determine candidate aliases for the same entity. In some embodiments contact networks in multiple services are compared as described in more detail below with reference to . When a candidate alias is found a service record is added to the entity entry field for the entity. The Source field of the added service field indicates MODEL or STRING CONTACT or RELATIONS with a confidence related to the probability of being correct e.g. 60 .

In some embodiments process does not begin unless one of the clients sends a message indicating a service and a target contact identifier for whom to find multiple aliases among other services. In some embodiments the matching model is implemented in the user client which then performs process for the contacts of one user on multiple services. In some of these embodiments contact merging service is omitted. In some embodiments a matching model is not used and process is omitted.

In one or more messages user e.g. User M sends data to the contact merging service that indicates contact identifiers in two or more services are linked e.g. are aliases of the same person who is not User M. For example contact A in service and B in service B and C in service C are aliases for the same person e.g. User B as determined by the reader User M. In response the entity aliases data structure is updated to reflect this information. For example the entity entry fields of the three contacts are combined two entity IDs are returned to a pool of available entity IDs or labeled candidates to be merged and the service fields of these entity entry fields are moved to the entity entry field of the retained entity ID as a second and third service field . The source field of the second and third service fields now indicate OTHER and User M with some confidence level e.g. MEDIUM . In some embodiments if User M is associated with low quality information then the entity entries for the other contacts IDs e.g. B and C are not removed and the confidence indicated in the source field is not so high e.g. is given a LOW value. If two different readers agree then the confidence level can be increased e.g. from MEDIUM to HIGH .

In process a privacy policy is applied to the links from User M. For example in some embodiments the aliases of the retained entity entry record is then associated with all three services in a multiservice contacts field added to each entity entry field where one of the aliases appears in the contacts field of the corresponding service field . For example a multiservice contacts field is entered in the entity entry for User M and also for one or more other users e.g. User A who include contact identifiers A or B or C in their contacts fields for the corresponding services or respectively. The multiservice contacts field indicates the services for User B and for each service a flag that indicates the result of the privacy filter. For example for User M the flag indicates the alias is allowed and the source User M can be revealed. For User A the flag indicates the alias is not allowed or approval is pending or allowed without indicating the source or allowed with the source as determined by the privacy policy.

In one or more message the candidate linkages e.g. data indicating an association among contact identifiers or a subset that passes the privacy filter that are candidate aliases are sent to the client of User A a different subscribed user. In some embodiments the one or more messages are sent in response to a request for suggestions from the client . For example in response to a prompt in a user interface as described in more detail below with reference to the user indicates a desire for aliases for target contact A in service and this is included in a suggestion request message to contact merging service . In some of these embodiments matching model process or privacy filter process or both are initiated on demand upon receipt of such a request for suggestions.

In one or more messages data that indicates approved aliases is sent from the client to the contact merging service . In process the analysis parameters used by the matching model are updated based on the approved aliases and the remaining aliases which are inferred to be not approved. For example the percentage of disagreement and agreement in fields and respectively are updated for the current threshold value in one of fields for each of the parameter entry fields . Process is an example means of achieving the advantage of converging on a matching model that gives optimum suggestions for candidate contact identifiers that are potential aliases for a single entity.

In one or more messages data indicating contact identifiers determined by User A to be aliases of the same entity are sent from client to the contact merging service . Messages from client are analogous to messages sent by client . In one or more messages the candidate links provided by User A and any determined by the updated matching model are sent from the contact merging service to the client of User M. Messages are analogous to messages sent to client of User A.

In step contacts of a subscribed user at multiple services are determined. For example the client prompts the user for one or more contacts on the different services or sniffs the communications between the application clients and the network services to ascertain those contacts. Then the client sends the contacts in one or more messages to the contact merging service where they are received during step . In some embodiments the service prompts the user to enter contacts using one or more Web pages presented through the browser . In the following the interactions with the user are described as if the client is involved. However in some embodiments the interactions with the user of UE are through the browser . Thus step includes receiving first data that indicates a plurality of contacts of a first user at a first plurality of services.

In the illustrated embodiment step includes steps and . The contact merging client prompts the user to enter one or more sets of user credentials for one or more services and those credentials are sent to the contact merging service in one or more message and received during step . In step the service logs into the multiple services using those credentials and queries those services for the contacts of the subscribed user in each of the multiple services e.g. in at least one message to each of the multiple services. Step includes receiving messages of contacts from each service. Thus receiving first data in step further comprises receiving first data that indicates a plurality of user credentials for the first user to access the corresponding first plurality of services in step and determining the plurality of contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services based on the user credentials in step .

In step a target contact also called a target is determined among the contacts of the subscribed user. Any method may be used to determine the target. In some embodiments the target is selected as the next non subscribed user among the subscribed user s contacts. In some embodiments step includes receiving a message from the subscribed user e.g. from client on the user s UE indicating one or more of the contacts to select as a target e.g. a message is received which indicates a target for whom candidate aliases on multiple services are desired. In some embodiments step includes sending to the user s UE e.g. through browser or client a user interface UI that prompts the user to select the target contact such as UI depicted in and described below. Step then includes receiving the selected target contact in a message in response to the prompt. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the subscribed user is Alice and her target contact is ROBERTFLIES234 in service which refers to her friend Bob.

In step candidate contact identifiers associated with the target contact are determined. In some embodiments the candidate contact identifiers are determined by a matching model that analyzes the similarity of data associated with the target contact and data associated with each of the other contacts in the entity aliases data structure. In some embodiments the candidate contact identifiers are determined based on linkages provided by other subscribed users of the contacts matching service . The contact merging data store is updated during step . In some embodiments the candidates are filtered during step by a privacy filter to avoid including candidates that the subscribed user is not entitled to see. described in more detail below depicts a process for step according to an embodiment. If there is no information to limit the candidates then all the subscribed user s contacts are included among the candidates. Thus in some embodiments the plurality of candidate contact identifiers includes the contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services.

For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the candidate contacts determined during step include those listed in Table 1. For simplicity the source is indicated by the subscribed user s identifier in the service of the target e.g. in service . This information is available to the service in the entity entry field . ROBERTFLIES234 was added by Alice in an example above and the entity was given the entity ID . As indicated in the source column three subscribed users who are users of service have the target in their contact lists namely Alice123 Dan456 and Molly789. The target is a contact of Alice. In the next six rows of the Table six candidate contact IDs are suggested as aliases for Bob.

In step candidate identifiers associated with the target contact during step are included in one or more messages to be sent to the user with any source information including any indicators of confidence as permitted by the privacy filter. In some embodiments the one or more messages are sent during step . In some embodiments one or more messages are determined but not sent until a sending conditions is satisfied. For example a sending condition is satisfied when it is determined in step that there are no more target contacts for a particular subscribed user or when a message is received from a client requesting the candidate aliases for the target. Step includes determining whether such sending conditions are satisfied.

In step it is determined whether there is another target contact for whom candidate aliases are desired. If so then steps to are repeated. If not then in step it is determined whether another subscribed user has contacts to submit. If so then steps through are repeated. If not then control passes to step .

In step it is determined whether the subscribed user has approved an association among one or more of the candidate contact identifiers. For example it is determined whether one or more messages indicating agreement or lack thereof to one or more of the candidate contact identifiers are received. If not then control passes to step to determine if conditions are satisfied to end the process such as shutting down the service for maintenance. If so then process ends. If not then control passes back to step to determine if another subscribed user is ready to provide contacts.

If it is determined in step that data indicating a user approval or disapproval is received then in step the information is updated in the contact merging data store including the updates to the matching model parameters data structure if any. Then in step it is determined if end conditions are satisfied as described above. Thus step and include receiving data that indicates an approved association among the second user and a plurality of approved contact identifiers based at least in part on the plurality of candidate contact identifiers and input from the first user. In some embodiments step includes determining an adjustment to the threshold similarity based at least in part on agreement between the plurality of approved contact identifiers and the plurality of candidate contact identifiers.

For example if a message indicating that she approves all the candidates in Table 1 is received from Alice e.g. from client then the service field for FLYBOB789 for service is added to the entity entry field with the value in the entity ID field as a new service field with source indicating Alice s identifier in service e.g. ALICE123. Also the user agree field is updated for the current threshold values for the similarity parameters used to determine that FLYBOB789 and BDOE are candidate. Similar changes are made for the entity entry fields for the other aliases accepted by Alice. If the response from Alice does not approve BDOE then that entity entry field is not merged and the disagree field is updated for the current threshold values of the similarity model.

If end conditions are not satisfied and in step it is determined that another subscribed user a third user is using the service then during subsequent execution of step the approved aliases of a contact of the first user are sent to the third user. For example FLYBOB is provided as an alias of ROBERTFLIES234 to subscribed User X. In such a subsequent execution steps and include determining to send to a different third user e.g. User X fourth data indicating an association between the second user ROBERTFLIES234 and a set of one or more approved contact identifiers of the plurality of approved contact identifiers of the first user e.g. ROBERT DOE ins service B BOBD in service C ROBERTD in service D and both RDOE and FLYBOB789 in service N . In some of these embodiments the source indicates the first user e.g. ALICE123 . Thus step includes indicating an identifier of the first user in the fourth data. When a privacy filter is applied during step then determining to send the fourth data to the third user further comprises determining that the fourth data satisfies a privacy condition.

In some embodiments the data analyzed by the matching model is the contact identifier string itself. In some embodiments the data analyzed by the matching model includes text or images or other data posted by the contact in the corresponding service. In some embodiments the data analyzed by the matching model includes the similarity of the contacts of different subscribed users. Unless the candidates are narrowed during process all the user s contacts are presented as candidate contact identifiers.

In step it is determined whether the target is associated with other contact identifiers in other services by a different subscribed user. For example it is determined whether Alice s target contact ROBERTFLIES234 is linked to contact identifiers in other services by another subscribed user of the contact merging service such as MOLLY789. If not in step it is determined whether a matching model is available to determine candidate contact identifiers by analyzing data associated with contact identifiers. If no model then the process ends with all contacts treated as candidates.

If it is determined in step that the target is associated with other contact identifiers in other services then in step the source is determined to be the different subscribed user. For example if MOLLY789 associates ROBERTFLIES with two other contact identifiers in two other services as indicated in lines and then MOLLY789 is one of the sources for each of these contact identifiers. In step associated data is determined. The associated data indicates a linkage between the candidate contact identifiers and the target as determined by other subscribed users who are readers of the target contact. In some embodiments the associated data includes the source. For example the associated data indicates the services and names and sources listed in the second and third and fifth columns respectively of Table 1 for the rows of the target and candidates through .

In some embodiments a multiservice contacts field is added to the entity entry field of the subscribed user who indicated the target contact. For example a multiservice contacts field is added to the entity entry field for ALICE123 which has entity ID in field . The multiservice contacts field includes the contact identifiers in column three in successive alias fields and the services listed in column two in successive fields . The flag fields indicate whether Alice can receive the candidate contact identifiers based on the privacy policy. In some embodiments the flag fields are all set to a value that indicates allowed with source information and then corrected based on the privacy filter applied in step .

In step the associated data is filtered for privacy e.g. a privacy filter is applied. In some embodiments the privacy filter always strips off the source information and updates the flag fields. In some embodiments the privacy filter only strips the source information and updates the flag fields accordingly for particular sources. In some embodiments the privacy filter first requests from the source whether the source information can be provided to the subscribed user e.g. a request is sent to MOLLY789 to allow ALICE123 to see that MOLLY789 is a source of the association among ROBERTFLIES234 and ROBERT DOE and BOBD . While a response is awaited from MOLLY789 the flag field for the aliases of Bob that she is a source for are associated with the flag value for pending approval. In some embodiments the privacy filter first requests from the contact whether the candidate contact identifier can be provided to the subscribed user e.g. a request is sent to ROBERTFLIES234 to allow ALICE123 to see that ROBERTFLIES234 and ROBERT DOE and BOBD are aliases for Bob. While a response is awaited from ROBERTFLIES234 the flag fields for the aliases of Bob are associated with the flag value for pending approval. In some embodiments the privacy filter disallows Alice from seeing a candidate alias of Bob unless the candidate alias is already among her contacts. Thus because ROBERTD in service D is not among Alice s contacts for service D the flag for this alias is set to a value that indicates this alias may not be released to Alice. The candidate contact identifiers that pass the privacy filter are passed to the next steps to be inserted into one or more messages during step along with any aliases determined by a matching model if such a model is included. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the associated data includes the first and second columns of Table 1 for the target and candidates through .

Thus in various embodiments of step when candidates approved by the first user are being provided in fourth data sent to another third user e.g. User X a privacy condition to be satisfied comprises one or more of the following conditions. A contact identifier in the set of approved contact identifiers for the target is already in a contact list of the third user. The second user has granted approval to send a contact identifier in the set to the third user. The first user has granted approval to send a contact identifier in the set to the third user. The fourth data does not indicate an identifier of the first user unless the first user has approved including the identifier of the first user.

If it is determined in step that a matching model is available then in step the similarity of data associated with the target and data associated with each contact is determined. Contact IDs that produce the same similar content are candidate contacts to suggest. For example if the contact published the same picture or text containing similar keywords as the target contact then the contact is a good candidate. For example many users automatically TWITTER their FLICKR photos or synchronize their status messages in different services. Similarly contact IDs that produce content with the same metadata e.g. location time people nearby are good candidate contacts to suggest. For example two contact IDs may often produce content with the same geo tag. An exotic language is another content clue that a contact is similar to a target contact. If the subscribed user s contacts usually use English but the target contact uses Chinese then those other contacts using Chinese are good candidates to suggest. Any measure may be used to express similarity such as cross correlation or vector distance in multidimensional space or deviation from a mean value or cluster analysis. In some embodiments the similarity of semantic concepts of the data associated with the two contacts is measured. Thus step includes determining similarity of data associated with a first contact identifier in the plurality of candidate contact identifiers to data associated with a second contact identifier among the contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services. In various embodiments of step the data associated with the first contact identifier and the data associated with the second contact identifier is data that indicates one or more of the corresponding contact identifier content posted by the corresponding contact identifier to the corresponding service or contacts of the corresponding contact identifier in the corresponding service.

In step it is determined if the measure of similarity exceeds some threshold or equivalently if a measure of distance or dissimilarity is less than a threshold then the contact is considered a candidate contact identifier for the same entity as the target contact. In some embodiments the threshold or thresholds are predetermined. In some embodiments the threshold is adjusted based on observed tendency of users to accept the candidate contacts suggested by the matching model. If the similarity exceeds the threshold then the contact is added to the candidate identifiers for the target contact. Thus step comprises including the second contact identifier in the plurality of candidate contact identifiers if the similarity is greater than a threshold similarity.

In step it is determined if there is another contact to compare to the target. If so control passes back to step to determine the similarity of the next contact to the target. If not the list of candidates is complete and the similarity model e.g. the matching model is indicated as the source. Then process ends passing control to step in .

For purposes of illustration it is assumed that there is no restriction in the privacy filter that a candidate contact already be a contact of the subscribed user and all the contact identifiers in Table 1 and the corresponding services and sources are provided as associated data with candidate contacts to the subscribed user.

In some embodiments the similarity of social connections RELATIONS is used to suggest candidate. is a diagram that illustrates linking identifiers based on social network connections according to an embodiment. Service A includes service users A A A and A collectively referenced as service A users who are on at least some of each other s contact lists as indicated by arrows representing service A relationships . Similarly Service B includes service users B B B and B collectively referenced as service B users who are on at least some of each other s contact lists as indicated by arrows representing service B relationships . It is assumed for purposes of illustration that it has been determined that user A is the same entity as user B i.e. A and B are linked and similarly it has been determined that A and B are linked and A and B are linked as indicated by the dotted arrows of established links . Then because the relationships of A to A A and A and A to A and A to A are similar to corresponding links with B in social network B it is determined that user A is likely the same as user B as indicted by the dashed arrow representing candidate linkage of A to B based on the social networks.

Thus the matching model in steps and determines linkages based on similarity of strings content or relations. The solutions accommodate various layers of user privacy. Linkages are based on text similarity e.g. ABCD and ABC. Linkages are based on similarity in semantics e.g. and Yanqing one and yksi. Linkages are based on social collaborations e.g. when person links ID and ID as the same entity representing person those who also have the ID and ID in their system will be suggested to combine the ID s as one person. The same rule can also be expanded to subscribed users who have similar but not exactly the same contact IDs e.g. have ID but not ID . Linkages are based on content analysis e.g. suggest to link contact IDs that produce the same similar content such as posting the same picture or text containing similar keywords in different social networks with different ID . Linkages are based on content with the same metadata e.g. location time people nearby content generated by same device. Linkages are based on context analysis e.g. suggest to link IDs that produce content in the same rare language among a user s contacts e.g. Chinese. Linkages are based on social networking analysis e.g. suggest to link contact IDs that have many contacts in common or suggest to link contact IDs that co locate with or connect to the same contacts.

The interactions with a user are controlled by a client process in at least some embodiments. is a flowchart of a process at a contact merging client for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual according to one embodiment. In one embodiment the contact merging client performs the process and is implemented in for instance a chip set including a processor and a memory as shown in or mobile terminal as depicted in .

In step it is determined to send first data that indicates user contacts. For example a prompt is presented to a user to enter one or more contacts on each of one or more services and these contacts are placed in one or more messages to send to the contact merging service . Alternatively interactions between application clients and services are snooped to determine one or more contacts on each of one or more services and these contacts are placed in one or more messages to send to the contact merging service . Thus step includes determining to send first data that indicates a plurality of contacts of a first user at a first plurality of services.

In an illustrated embodiment step includes steps and . In step a prompt is presented in a user interface UI for a user to enter user credentials at each of one or more network services . For example an enter new services user interface UI is presented to the user. Thus step includes determining to present to the first user a prompt to enter a plurality of user credentials for the first user to access the first plurality of services.

For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the device toolbar includes active areas and . The active area is activated by a user to display applications installed on the UE which can be launched to begin executing such as an email application or a video player or the contact merging client application. The active area is activated by a user to display current context of the UE such as current date and time and location and signal strength. In some embodiments the active area is a thumbnail that depicts the current time or signal strength for a mobile terminal or both that expands when activated. The active area is activated by a user to display tools built in to the UE such as camera alarm clock automatic dialer contact list GPS and web browser. The active area is activated by a user to display contents stored on the UE such as pictures videos music voice memos etc.

The screen also includes a contact merging user interface UI area in which the data displayed is controlled by a client or a browser . According to some embodiments the application UI area includes an ENTER SERVICES button a SUGGEST LINKS button and a CLOSE button . If the user activates the CLOSE button the contact merging UI area is closed.

If the user activates the ENTER SERVICES button an enter new services user interface UI area is presented. The enter new services UI area includes a first active area such as a pull down menu to select a network service with contacts such as a pull down menu listing services through . The enter new services UI area also includes an active area for entering user credentials as well as an OK button and a CLOSE button . If the user activates the CLOSE button the enter new services UI area is closed. The enter credentials active area includes a prompt inviting a user to enter user credentials such as a user name and password for the selected service indicted in area . When the user activates the OK button data indicating the user credentials entered in active area and the selected service indicated in active area are added to one or more messages to send to the contact merging service . Thus enter new service UI areas is an example means to achieve the advantage of allowing a user to specify just user credentials to obtain all contacts of the user at each network service .

Returning to in step user credentials for multiple network services are received e.g. in response to each activation of the OK button . Thus step includes receiving user input that indicates the plurality of user credentials for the first user to access the first plurality of services.

In step it is determined to send one or more messages with the user credentials for the multiple services to the contact merging service . As a result one or more messages are sent to the contact merging service . Thus step includes determining to send first data that indicates the user input to a remote process that uses the plurality of user credentials to determine the plurality of contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services.

In step contact identifiers for the user s contacts at the multiple network services are presented e.g. in a contact merging UI area . In some embodiments step includes receiving the contacts in one or more messages from the contact merging service e.g. in one or more messages .

Returning to in step it is determined to send an identifier of a target contact to the contact merging service. The target contact is one for which candidate contact identifiers that are aliases for the target are requested from the contact merging service . For example upon activation of the suggest links button on screen the selected contact whose profile is in area is the target contact and a request for candidate contact identifiers that are aliases for the target contact is sent to the contact merging service in step .

In step multiple candidate identifiers for the target at a corresponding multiple services are received. For example one or more messages with candidate links such as in the second third and fifth columns of Table 1 are received from the contact merging service . Thus step includes receiving second data that indicates an association among a different second user and a plurality of candidate contact identifiers for the second user at a second plurality of services based at least in part on contacts of the first user at the first plurality of services.

In step a prompt for approval of the candidate identifiers for the target is presented. Thus step includes determining to present a prompt for the first user to approve an association between the second user and one or more of the candidate contact identifiers. In some embodiments two or more candidates are automatically marked approved without presentation to the user. For example when the confidence is greater than a threshold such as 95 called an automatic approval threshold then step is skipped for such candidates and control passes directly to step that indicates approved contact identifiers for the same entity as the target contact.

The suggested links UI area includes an OK button a CANCEL button a target contact identifier ID area and an add remove aliases active area . The add remove aliases active area includes button and button and one or more text box active areas collectively referenced hereinafter as text box active areas with corresponding radio buttons and a scrollbar to allow any further text box active areas to be moved into view. In various embodiments as indicated above other active areas are used for example in some embodiments check boxes are used instead of radio buttons. Each candidate contact identifier and the corresponding service are indicated in one of the text box active areas . In some embodiments the source or confidence level or both are also included in each text box active area. For example the information in the second third and fifth columns of each row of Table 1 is presented in each text box active area .

The target ID area indicates the target contact for which the contact identifiers in add remove aliases active area are candidates. A user s agreement and hence approval of a candidate contact identifier as referring to the target contact indicated in area is granted by activating the radio button associated with the corresponding text box active area so that the radio button is filled. Each activation of the same radio button toggles the button on solid fill or off empty . In some embodiments multiple contact IDs may be selected for the same service e.g. to account for both a personal ID and professional ID of the same entity at the same service. Button is activated to fill all the radio buttons the button is activated to toggle all the radio buttons so that filled buttons become empty and empty buttons become filled.

Upon activation of the CANCEL button the suggested links UI area is closed without sending the user s selections to the contact merging service thus neither approving nor disapproving any of the candidates. Upon activation of the OK button the suggested links UI area is closed and the user s selections are sent to the contact merging service thus approving or disapproving each of the candidate contact IDs based on the state of the radio buttons .

Returning to in step it is determined whether user input in response to the prompt is received. If not for example if the CANCEL button is activated then control passes to step to determine if end conditions are satisfied e.g. whether the user closes the contact merging client by activation the CLOSE button . If so the process ends otherwise steps through are repeated.

If it is determined in step that user input is received for example if the OK button is activated then in step data is sent that indicates approved contact identifiers for the same entity as the target contact. For example one or more message are sent from the contact merging client to the contact merging service . These messages are used by the service to update the entity aliases data structure and the model threshold statistics in data structure . Thus steps and include receiving user input that indicates an approved association among the second user and a plurality of approved contact identifiers based at least in part on the plurality of candidate contact identifiers and determining to send third data that indicates the approved association among the second user and the plurality of approved contact identifiers.

The processes described herein for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual at the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to link multiple contact identifiers of an individual. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of linking multiple contact identifiers of an individual. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to link multiple contact identifiers of an individual. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

