---

title: Measuring social network-based interaction with web content external to a social networking system
abstract: A social networking system includes a mechanism for generating nodes in the social graph corresponding to web content external to the social networking system. These nodes allow the social networking system to track user interactions within the social networking system about web content external to the social networking system. The web content markup language document(s) include one or more tags, which contain information for defining the node in the social networking system. Users may then interact with the node, and these interactions are tracked by the social networking system. From this, the social networking system generates analytics, which include historical data and user demographic and behavioral information, and which can be provided to the web content provider via the social networking system. A user interface within the social networking system can be used to provide access to the analytics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497154&OS=09497154&RS=09497154
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09497154
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101213
---
This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to measuring interaction within a social networking environment with web content external to the social networking system.

Social networking systems have become prevalent in recent years because they provide a useful environment in which users can connect to and communicate with other users. Although a variety of different types of social networking systems exist these systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to define and interact within their social networks. In this context a user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. Accordingly while enabling social communications among friends a social networking system can also be a valuable tool for businesses to engage with potential consumers. Even without a commercial purpose a social networking system may allow other types of entities to spread their message. For example a non person entity may set up a page or group that other users can join or become a fan of which enables the non person entity to provide a forum to receive and transmit communications to a group of interested users.

Providers of web content external to a social networking system often want to gather demographics and other information about consumers of their products or web content such as a website or individual web pages. However such information typically is fairly limited based on information provided by the consumer directly and or compiled by independent web analytics providers. Web content providers have not yet been able to exploit the relationships and connections among members of a social networking website in a meaningful way. The reason is that such web content typically is not readily tied to users of the social networking system. For example if it were desirable to track whether users within the social networking system interacted with web content external to the social networking system the information necessary to track the web content would have to be provided to the social networking system.

To enable a social networking system to track socially relevant information about users within a social networking environment and their interactions with web content external to a social networking system embodiments of the invention provide a flexible mechanism for incorporating nodes in the social graph for the external web content. In particular embodiments of the invention enable a node to be defined by a web page or domain which may be external to the domain of the social networking system.

In one embodiment a node is generated in a social networking system corresponding to web content external to the social networking system. Web page s encoded by a markup language document which a web browser application can use to render and display the web page on a user device include one or more tags that contain information for associating the web content with the node. The social networking system retrieves the tag s from the markup language document and stores their information in connection with the node for the content. In this way a node in the social networking system may be created and defined based on the web content. This effectively opens the social graph to web content providers as users of the social networking system and allows them to measure the actions of users within the social networking system that is related to the web content.

In use in one embodiment a web content provider who is a user of the social networking system requests to associate a node in the social networking system with the web content which may be a web page or a domain including multiple web pages. The content owner incorporates a tag into markup language document s for the web content identifying the web content as associated with the user in the context of the social networking system. Using the tag s the social networking system generates a node associated with the web content which is included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system and allows one or more users access to the content based on the node configuration. User actions within with the social networking system are logged and thus even previous user actions related to the web content are associated with the node.

Users of the social networking system interact with the node e.g. via actions related to the web content. Such actions may include viewing the content sharing the content or re sharing previously shared content commenting on the content liking the content etc. The social networking system tracks the actions between users and the node. From the tracked interactions the social networking system generates analytics which can be provided to the user associated with the web content via the social networking system. The analytics can include demographic and behavioral data pertaining to the users since this information also is logged by the social networking system. In addition historical data for interactions between users and the web content can be provided since data pertaining to the node was logged by the social networking system even before the web content was associated with the node. A user interface within the social networking system with access limited to the content user associated with the web content can be used to display the analytics.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention allow measuring interactions within a social networking environment with web content external to the social networking system. This functionality allows for user interactions with a node that represents web content to be accessible by the user associated with the web content which may then use the resulting socially relevant information for various purposes e.g. targeting advertising etc. .

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the user device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The user device is configured to communicate with the external website and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the user device displays content from the external website or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external website or from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data.

In one embodiment the user device also includes a cookie including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system . The cookie indicates whether the user of the computing device is involved in an active session where the user device exchanges data with the social networking system allowing modification of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external website comprises one or more web servers including one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external website is separate from the social networking system . For example the external website is associated with a first domain while the social networking website is associated with a separate social networking domain. A web page included in the external website comprises a markup language document identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content as described above.

The markup language document includes one or more tags including meta information associating the web page represented by the markup language document with a node in the social networking system which are further described below. The tags may provide textual titles labels and or descriptions about the node in the social networking system as well as other information such as a title label unique identifier micro format and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as the type of the node. The tags allow creation of a node in the social networking system based on the information within the markup language document comprising a web page . As the web page may be maintained by an external website that is outside of the domain of the social networking system and may be operated by an entity other than an operator of the social networking system the tags in the markup language document allow external websites to define create and maintain nodes used by the social networking system as further described below.

The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing a social network or a social graph comprising a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. The social graph includes a plurality of nodes that are interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent something that can act on and or be acted upon by another node. Common examples of nodes include users non person entities content items groups events messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in a social networking system. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. The social networking system is further described below in conjunction with .

In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking systems based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation. Once a user establishes a connection with another user in the social networking system the two users are represented as nodes and the edge between them represents the established connection. Continuing this example one of these users may send a message to the other user within the social networking system. This act of sending the message is another edge between those two nodes which can be tracked by the social networking system. Using a social graph therefore a social networking system may keep track of many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects thereby maintaining an extremely rich store of socially relevant information.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system.

These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in an external website separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via a network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external websites or other entities through an API or other communication channels. Providers of web content external to a social networking system often want to gather demographics and other information about consumers of their products or web content. If it is desirable to track whether users within the social networking system interacted with web content external to the social networking system the web content can be associated with the social networking system as a node. Thus the social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

As described above in conjunction with the social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles describing the users of a social network in a user profile store . The user profiles include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests location and the like. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure i.e. a node of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

In addition the user profile store may include data structures suitable for describing a user s demographic data behavioral data and other social data. Demographic data typically includes data about the user such as age gender location etc. e.g. as included in the user s profile. Behavioral data typically includes information about the user s activities within the social networking system such as specific actions posts likes comments etc. activity levels usage statistics etc. Other social data comprises information about the user from within the social networking system that is not strictly demographic or behavioral such as interests or affinities etc. In addition the user profile store may be accessed by other aspects of the social networking system .

The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in a user connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external websites or connections to other entities. The connection stores may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In addition the connection store may be accessed by other aspects of the social networking system .

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external websites via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more external websites to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server also may allow external websites to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. For example a external website sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external website via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user and communicates the collected data to the external website . The data communicated includes analytics corresponding to user interactions with web content according to one embodiment.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions allowing the social networking system to track various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social network that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user or other actions interacting with another user. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the action log .

Additionally user actions may be associated with an entity outside of the core social networking system such as a external website that is separate from the social networking system website . For example the action logger receives data describing a user s interaction with a third party website from the web server . Examples of actions where a user interacts with a external website includes a user expressing an interest in a external website or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses a external website or a web page within the external website a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with a external website a user attending an event associated with a external website or any other action by a user that is related to a external website . Thus the action log may include actions describing interactions between a social networking system user and a external website that is separate from the social networking system .

The action log maintains a record of all edges between nodes of the system. In the case in which external website content becomes associated with a node in the social networking system the action log tracks information about the edges associated with user actions. In addition the action log can re associate web content not originally associated with a node such that it is associated with a node allowing historical data for the node to be captured.

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external websites or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The useful social information that is tracked and maintained by a social networking system can be thought of in terms of a social graph which includes a plurality of nodes that are interconnected by a plurality of edges. The node module contains logic for generating nodes associated with web content external to the social networking system e.g. associated with a web page or domain comprising multiple web pages outside of the social networking system and for associating web content with a node in the social networking system . Each node in the social graph may represent something that can act on and or be acted upon by another node. Common examples of nodes include users non person entities content items groups events messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in a social networking system. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node.

The social networking system may receive a request to associate the web content with a node in the social networking system . An external website e.g. incorporates a tag into the markup language document for the web page s of the web content to claim ownership of the pages domain in the context of the social networking system . In some cases an entire domain or collection of web pages is associated with a unique identifier that associates the web pages with a node. Once established the social networking system tracks data associated with the node in the action log .

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the action log allows the social networking system to generate a social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node.

For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user profiles of the first user and the second users from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user man then send the first user a message within the social networking system which is identified by the action logger and stored in the action log . The stored action of sending the message is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified from the action log and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the action log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The analytics module contains logic for generating analytics corresponding to user interactions with nodes. The analytics module accesses tracked user actions information related to nodes e.g. from the action log and user demographic behavioral and other social data e.g. from the user profile store and produces analytics. The analytics include data corresponding to actions between users and nodes as well as information about the users data over time etc. For example actions by users related to nodes can include views shares comments likes etc. in addition virality engagement rate re share rate and depth trends and other metrics can be tracked over time. The demographic behavioral and other social data can include age gender location primary language spoken actions posts likes comments etc. within the social networking system activity levels usage statistics interests affinities etc. Using this data the analytics module has a rich pool of data corresponding to any given node and thus can determine analytics such as likes shares feedback per share re share rate feedback rate etc. for a given period such as a day or a week or other short term or long term time periods. In addition for domains with multiple web pages the data can be aggregated and or broken down by individual web pages. In addition data can be shown according to demographics such as location age gender etc. Analytics produced are stored in an analytics store .

The user interface module contains logic for providing the analytics information to the user associated with the website e.g. for display in the form of a user interface. The display may show the data according to any of the analytics described above. An example of a user interface showing analytical data is shown in .

In one embodiment the web page corresponds to a markup language document that includes the content and the instructions for formatting or presenting the content . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. In addition to the content and instructions for formatting or presenting the content the markup language document comprising the web page also includes one or more tags that include meta information about a node in the social graph maintained by the social networking system associated with the web page . Initially the social networking system user associated with the web content may insert these tags into the markup language document to create the node within the social networking system . The tags may provide textual titles labels and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as a title label unique identifier micro format and or descriptions about the node as well as other information such as the type of the node. The social networking system retrieves the tags from the markup language document and stores their information in connection with the node for the web page . The tags allow the social networking system to create and define a node in a social graph based on the information contained within the web page. Because the web page may be outside of a domain of the social networking system and may be operated by an entity other than the social networking system operator the tags enable third parties to associate web content with nodes within the social networking system .

The tags within the markup language document may include an administrator tag identifying one or more social networking system users with the ability to create and or maintain nodes associated with the web page . The administrator tag potentially allows users outside of the social networking system to maintain nodes used by the social networking system . In one embodiment the social networking system provides a user interface to the user identifiers specified by the administrator tag which facilitates access to the analytics associated with the node generated by the social networking system .

Within the posting interface an input field and content submission button are displayed. The communication channel comprises content items posted by users and entities on the social networking service. For example a connection Julieta posted a status update loves Barrack Obama. Another connection Jared posted web content e.g. as shown in with an accompanying caption Interesting article . . . . For example Jared posted the web content via a URL associated with the content in the posting interface on his own page or another page of the social networking system .

By posting the web content user Jared created an edge between the node associated with the web content and his user node which edge is tracked by the social networking system . By clicking on the content a user can view the article and links below the content allow users to comment like or share the web content . Each of these actions by another user also would constitute an edge between the web content node and the user taking the action which is tracked by the social networking system .

An operator of one or more web pages or of an external website including the web page s may request to associate a node in the social networking system with a web page or with a domain associated with the web site . To do so the external website incorporates a tag into the markup language document for the web page s or for the domain including the pages to claim ownership of the pages domain in the context of the social networking system . The inserted tag e.g. may specify the website operator s user identification for the social networking system . For example the tag could be uid 454515 where 454515 is the user s identification. The social networking system verifies the request by reading the tag and associating the user s identification with the website.

The social networking system generates a node associated with the web content external to the social networking system which is a web page or domain comprising multiple web pages outside of the social networking system . For example the social networking system generates a node from information in one or more tags included in the markup language document s for the web content. After the node is generated the web page is included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system effectively opening the social graph to administrators or others associated with the web content. The owner of the web content may be a user of the social networking system an administrator of the domain associated with the web content or both according to various embodiments.

Once established the social networking system may provide analytics to the external website or to the user associated with the web content based on historical data. For example because the social networking system maintains log files of user actions the log may contain information about users interactions with a web page even though it wasn t previously established as a node associated with a third party. Thus when the node is generated the social networking system then can determine historical actions between the users of the social networking system and the node generate analytics from the historical data and provide access to the analytics to the user associated with the web content e.g. a content owner provider or administrator.

Once established users of the social networking system continue to interact with the node now as a node by interacting with the content associated with the node e.g. via actions related to the web content. Such actions may include viewing the content sharing the content or re sharing previously shared content commenting on the content liking or otherwise becoming a fan of or expressing interest in the content etc. The social networking system continues to track the actions between users and the node and can at any time generate analytics from the actions and from demographic and behavioral data pertaining to the users and provide such analytics to the user associated with the web content. Web content owners then can use the analytics for various purposes e.g. to more effectively direct their advertising message to consumers.

The sharing summary section provides summary totals for daily likes daily shares feedback per share and re share rate for the entire domain . The sharing summary section also provides a graphical representation of daily shares and daily likes over a longer period of time. The daily share and daily likes check boxes may be selected or deselected to alter the display of the graphical representation .

The page wise analytics summary provides information about the most liked and shared pages within the displayed domain . For each page the page name number of likes number of shares feedback rate and re share rate are shown. Together the sharing summary section and page wise analytics summary provide a snapshot of user interactions with the pages of the domain .

The demographics bar graph in the example shown includes information about the gender and age of users interacting with the domain . The demographics listings provides information about the location of users interacting with the domain and languages associated with the interactions. The demographics listings also includes a control to expand or contract the list.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

