---

title: Systems and methods for collaborative browsing on the telecom web
abstract: Embodiments of the invention broadly contemplate systems, methods, apparatuses and program products providing collaborative browsing on the World Wide Telecom Web (WWTW) via a collaborative WWTW browser. According to embodiments of the invention, collaborative usage of the WWTW is enabled via connecting users and VoiceSites together.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367123&OS=09367123&RS=09367123
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09367123
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100129
---
The subject matter described herein generally relates to the World Wide Telecom Web WWTW which consists of interconnected voice applications called VoiceSites that can be accessed by a regular phone call.

The World Wide Web WWW enabled quick and easy information dissemination and brought about fundamental changes to various aspects of life. However a very large number of people mostly in developing regions are still untouched by this revolution. Compared to personal computers PCs the primary access mechanism to WWW mobile phones have made a phenomenal penetration into this population segment. Low cost of ownership the simple user interface consisting of a small keyboard limited menu and voice based access contribute to the success of mobile phones. However apart from basic voice communication these people are not able to exploit the benefits of information and services available to WWW users.

A user can access the WWTW and interact with a VoiceSite thereof through speech. This is particularly useful in developing regions where Internet penetration is low and phone penetration is high. Since the WWTW can be accessed through a standard phone instrument for example voice only individuals not equipped with high end electronic devices such as PCs or smart phones can access the WWTW.

Embodiments of the invention broadly contemplate systems methods apparatuses and program products providing collaborative browsing on the World Wide Telecom Web WWTW . According to embodiments of the invention collaborative usage of the WWTW is enabled via connecting users and VoiceSites together. Embodiments of the invention provide mechanisms allowing WWTW users to visit voicesites together and engage in several forms of collaborative social interaction on the WWTW such as conferencing using simplified electronic devices and voice connections to a collaborative WWTW browser.

In summary one aspect of the invention provides an apparatus comprising one or more processors and a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the one or more processors the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to receive one or more commands from one or more end users over one or more voice channel links computer readable program code configured to interpret the one or more commands and computer readable program code configured to establish one or more additional voice channel links according to the one or more commands to establish a collaborative telecom web browsing session between two or more end users and one or more voice applications.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method comprising receiving one or more commands from one or more end users over one or more voice channel links interpreting the one or more commands and establishing one or more additional voice channel links according to the one or more commands to establish a collaborative telecom web browsing session between two or more end users and one or more voice applications.

A further aspect of the invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to receive one or more commands from one or more end users over one or more voice channel links computer readable program code configured to interpret the one or more commands and computer readable program code configured to establish one or more additional voice channel links according to the one or more commands to establish a collaborative telecom web browsing session between two or more end users and one or more voice applications.

For a better understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the scope of the claimed embodiments of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments of the invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations in addition to the described exemplary embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the various embodiments of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention broadly contemplate systems methods apparatuses and program products providing collaborative browsing on the World Wide Telecom Web WWTW . According to embodiments of the invention collaborative usage of the WWTW is enabled via connecting users and VoiceSites together. Embodiments of the invention provide mechanisms allowing WWTW users to visit VoiceSites together and engage in several forms of social interaction on the WWTW such as conferencing using simplified electronic devices and voice connections.

The description now turns to the figures. The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the figures. The following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain selected exemplary embodiments of the invention as claimed herein.

It should be noted that the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems apparatuses methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Conventional telephony voice applications have been used by enterprises to provide an alternate access channel to their customers. The technical sophistication of these applications vary a lot where the simplest applications use the phone keypad to navigate the voice menu while the sophisticated applications can process natural language in a human voice. Such voice applications find a wider acceptability since the access interface is a phone device so people can access these applications on the move. With the modality of interaction being voice it is fairly easy to use and navigate through these applications.

The implications of phone access and ease of use are even higher in developing countries where the alternative of Web access is not yet penetrative. The Internet penetration in developing regions is still in the year 2008 on the order of less than 10 .

However the use of telephony voice applications is still restricted to a handful of enterprises. One major reason for this is that the voice applications unlike the websites are still isolated applications that have a specific piece of information or service. Interconnection of voice applications referred to herein as VoiceSites is therefore a requirement to enable their spread as the World Wide Web WWW has been able to achieve through hyperlinks that link websites.

The WWTW or Telecom Web or T Web provides a mechanism and the advantages to develop a web of voice applications. illustrates a high level view of a WWTW environment according to an embodiment of the invention. An end user connects to the WWTW having a plurality of interconnected VoiceSites using his or her phone. The end user connects to the WWTW via a WWTW Browser which facilitates communication between end user and the VoiceSites. While only one end user is illustrated a plurality of end users may connect through one or more WWTW Browsers. Moreover a WWTW browser may be incorporated into a VoiceSite. Thus is simply a non limiting example of the high level architecture involved.

The WWTW Browser can support standard browsing features used on the WWW even though the end user does not have a high end device such as a PC. The WWTW browser can be designed as a server side application to be accessed by a standard phone device for example a voice only phone or the like over the voice channel. The WWTW browser uses call control features and VoiceXML tags to manage a user session. It provides a seamless navigation experience to the end user . Some architectural details of a WWTW browser are provided below.

By way of architectural overview a traditional web browser such as Internet Explorer or Firefox web browsers is client side software that resides on the user s PC or a high end phone that has Internet access. In the WWTW the client device is typically a low end phone for example voice only and the access to a VoiceSite is through voice interaction over a telephone call rather than a data channel. This implies that the WWTW browser needs to be designed as a server side technology. Firefox is a registered trademark of the Mozilla Foundation. Internet Explorer is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

By way of illustrative example a user makes a phone call by dialing the WWTW browser phone number. Once he or she is connected to the WWTW browser he or she can then access the VoiceSites in the Telecom Web by different WWTW browser commands. Being a server side technology it is evident that a single WWTW browser can support multiple end users.

Given this operational model the WWTW browser commands issued by a user can either be spoken word commands or keypad often known as DTMF Dual Tone Multiple Frequency commands since a basic phone instrument and the telephone link between the phone and the WWTW browser cannot support any other modality. The interpretation of these commands happens at the WWTW browser . Therefore the WWTW browser needs a speech recognition system if voice commands are supported. A VoiceSite also typically uses the same interaction modalities.

The WWTW browser serves as the window through which a user accesses the VoiceSites hosted in the Telecom Web in a seamless fashion. A user can access individual VoiceSites directly as well without involving the Telecom Web browser . However in that case the user either needs to know the address of the VoiceSite to be visited or the current open VoiceSite should contain a hyperlink to that VoiceSite.

Multiple users can surf the Telecom Web through the same WWTW browser instance. Similarly a single user can choose to browse through different WWTW browsers at different times. The WWTW browser itself can be considered to be a special VoiceSite that provides navigational features to the user .

The user connects to the WWTW browser and then accesses any VoiceSite of her his interest. Once a user is connected to a VoiceSite he or she is able to interact with the VoiceSite and the WWTW browser simultaneously. This is non trivial since the WWTW browser commands can be issued at any point of time while navigating a VoiceSite. This is relatively a simple task in Graphical User Interfaces where traditional browsers web browsers such as Internet Explorer or Firefox web browsers split the screen space to accommodate a browser s command menu and the website content. However in the absence of this spatial dimension in the WWTW browser it is non trivial to ensure that the user can communicate with the WWTW browser and the VoiceSite being browsed.

A mechanism to distinguish between the WWTW browser commands and the VoiceSite commands is to switch to the WWTW browser command mode by saying a unique browser specific keyword like T Web Browser or pressing special keypad sequence. This keyword would take the user to the WWTW browser browser command menu where the user can enter the WWTW browser commands such as back forward and bookmark this VoiceSite . The assumption is that this keyword would not be present in any VoiceSite s grammar. Another approach is to append a prefix word browser to all the WWTW browser commands such as browser back and browser new . This does not require the user to switch to any separate command mode for issuing commands. The assumption is that these phrases with the prefix would not be a part of any VoiceSite s grammar.

Referring to a component level architecture of a collaborative WWTW browser is presented herein by way of non limiting example. The collaborative WWTW browser is first described with regard to a single user context and thereafter is described in the context of multiple users browsing the WWTW in a collaborative context. The collaborative WWTW browser similar to the WWTW browser described above enables a user to browse through VoiceSites record bookmarks and the like the collaborative WWTW browser additionally enables collaborative social interactions telecom web browsing between multiple users and subsets thereof as described further herein.

The collaborative WWTW browser can use for example CCXML to conference two call legs one connection between the collaborative WWTW browser and the user a second connection between the collaborative browser and a VoiceSite and or another end user . This allows the collaborative WWTW browser as well as the VoiceSite and therefore their corresponding speech recognition systems to remain active in the same telephone call. Notably this does not require the end user phone to support conferencing. The phone call between the phone instrument and the collaborative WWTW browser and between the collaborative WWTW browser and the VoiceSite is a three party conference call through the CCXML. Drawing parallels from the conventional visual web browser if a speech command is specific to the collaborative WWTW browser then the collaborative WWTW browser takes action on it. On the other hand if the speech command is specific to the VoiceSite the collaborative WWTW browser takes no action. This is similar to a mouse click in the web browser part of the pane versus a mouse click in the website content.

A Call Manager with call handler Command Interpreter Session Manager Handler and Data Model in a Database form the core components of the collaborative WWTW browser . The interaction between these components is essentially calls from the end user land to the Call Manager through a simple phone call and the Call Manager makes a dialog call to the Command Interpreter which then presents the collaborative WWTW browser commands to the user . The Command Interpreter is responsible for interactions with the end user s . It provides the user with the choice of commands and interprets commands issued by the user . When a command to access a VoiceSite is issued by the user it is passed on to the Call Manager .

The Call Manager then makes the phone call to the VoiceSite while retaining the original call with the collaborative WWTW browser . Thus a three party call is established by the Call Manager . The Call Manager also makes relevant API calls to register events in the collaborative WWTW browser database . A Data Model is designed to store data related to the browsing session of the user .

While browsing the VoiceSite a user can issue a collaborative browser command to be transferred to a new VoiceSite . It should be noted that the new VoiceSite could equally be another end user phone to be conferenced in such as a stored contact in the database . This command is again interpreted by the Command Interpreter and an HSTP layer transfers the relevant information through the Session Handler . The Session Handler manages the session information for the current user browsing session. It then passes on the message to the Call Manager through an API call. It also sends a SOAP message through the HSTP to the new VoiceSite . The Call Manager then establishes the phone call connection of the to the new VoiceSite . It also repeats the step of making the appropriate API calls to register the navigation in the browser database . It should also be noted that another user can connect to the same collaborative WWTW browser or be linked with the initial end user via another voice channel link originating from this collaborative WWTW browser to the another user

According to an embodiment of the invention the application logic of the collaborative WWTW browser is responsible for providing its core functionality. illustrates non limiting and exemplary commands supported by the collaborative WWTW browser along with the application flow triggered by each. While the commands are described with respect to a single user it should be noted that any of the users engaged in the collaborative telecom web browsing session can make use of these commands independently. For example the following commands are accepted by the collaborative browser 

Open New When a user requests connection to a new VoiceSite the Command Interpreter accepts the phone number of the VoiceSite and passes this to the Session Manager. The Session Manager then initiates a session transfer to the new VoiceSite through the HSTP. Once a session is established the Call Manager then initiates a phone call transfer to the new VoiceSite and the user is connected to the VoiceSite. In parallel the Call Manager publishes the information of the VoiceSite to the navigation history of the user in the Database. While navigating the VoiceSite the user can speak any browser command as shown in .

Back If a user issues a back command the Call Manager makes an API call to the database and retrieves the details of the previously visited VoiceSite. If there is no VoiceSite that was visited by the user in the current browsing session the Command Interpreter plays a Not Available message to the user and the session is transferred back to the same VoiceSite that the user was browsing. If there was a previously visited VoiceSite the Call Manager gets the details from the Database and passes the information to the Session Manager and the flow proceeds in the same way as explained in the Open New case.

Forward The flow for the forward command is similar to the back command except that the Call Manager retrieves entries from the forward column of the database.

Bookmark When a user issues a bookmark command the Command Interpreter asks the user whether he or she wishes to add a bookmark or access the previously stored bookmarks. To add a bookmark the user records an audio label for the VoiceSite and the details of the VoiceSite along with the audio label are stored in the Database. The interaction is then returned to the previous state. If a user wishes to access previously stored bookmarks which could be his or her own bookmarks or the bookmarks of a friend selected from a friends list then the audio labels of the stored bookmarks are played to the user sequentially by the Command Interpreter. The user can select a specific bookmark and then the Call Manager checks in the Database if it has the required details of the VoiceSite. If the details exist then the session and the call is transferred to the bookmarked VoiceSite . If not the Command Interpreter interacts with the user to choose another bookmark.

History A user may choose to look at previously visited VoiceSites which could be his or her own browsing history or the browsing history of a subset or group of users selected for example from a friends list . The browser retrieves the information from the Database and the Command Interpreter presents the results to the user. As is the case with bookmarks a user can then choose to browse a specific VoiceSite from this list. The application flow for history is similar to the bookmarks for establishing a session.

Exit At any point during the browsing a user may issue an exit command to close the browser session. The Call Manager drops the call and this disconnects the user from the browser.

When any of the above commands are invoked the VoiceSite is disconnected by the collaborative WWTW browser and hence the session information of the VoiceSite is sent to the browser Session Manager by the HSTP layer. However users can decide to stay connected with one another and navigate to a new VoiceSite jointly in which case the voice link between the users is maintained while a new voice link is established for the new VoiceSite.

Even though the collaborative WWTW browser can be invoked and implemented like a VoiceSite it s requirement for managing multiple call connections and sessions across VoiceSites makes it an ideal application to be implemented using CCXML. CCXML is a W3C standard for voice browser call control that has extended capabilities for maintaining multiple call sessions and also the ability to integrate VXML applications within the call flow. For simplicity herein are presented a simulated call flow using VXML jsp applications and Java Beans. Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc.

Described herein are the classes interfaces data model and the modifications to HSTP that were performed in the development of the collaborative WWTW Browser. The following classes have been used in implementations 

CallManager class manages all the connections to VoiceSites and makes API calls to Session Manager and the DB class explained below . Since Voice XML has been used in implementation bridged transfer is used to connect to the VoiceSites. In a Voice XML bridged transfer a grammar can be kept active which listens to the WWTW browser commands while the user is connected to the VoiceSite.

SessionManager class maintains the user s session information while the user is browsing different VoiceSites. The transferSession method is invoked by the Call Manager to indicate to the Session Manager to transfer session to a VoiceSite before initiating a call transfer to it. The HSTP layer of the Session Manager in turn triggers a SOAP request to the target VoiceSite s HSTP layer with the corresponding session information. The session information related to a particular VoiceSite can be of two types a user s session information pertaining only to the VoiceSite that the user is visiting for example login or state information and b user s context information that needs to be transferred to a different VoiceSite when a hyperspeech link is accessed for example for transferring payment information .

DB class maintains the database for history bookmarks and user settings. It has methods for inserting a new voice site to the short term and long term history for lookup of short term and long term history insert and lookup of bookmarks to from the database and for cleanup to clean the user s session information if the user disconnects from the collaborative browser.

The classes described above also implement methods to provide the following logical interfaces for communication across these classes 

Call Manager Session Manager The Call Manager indicates to the Session Manager to transfer the user session before moving back or forward to any VoiceSite.

Call Manager Database Call Manager issues commands to the database such as Insert VoiceSite Set Setting Lookup History Insert Bookmark Lookup Bookmarks to update and or retrieve user history settings and bookmarks.

Session Manager HSTP A Session Manager indicates to the HSTP layer to transfer session information to the VoiceSite as and when required by the Call Manager .

The database for the collaborative WWTW browser has been implemented for example on Apache Derby. Browsing history is stored in two separate databases short term history is maintained for example per user session . If the user issues a back forward command the short term history is looked upon to find out the corresponding VoiceSite number. This history is deleted after the user s browser session is over.

Long term history is maintained for example per user across all sessions. If the user issues a history command he or she can browse all the VoiceSites visited over a certain period of time.

Bookmarks are stored for each user with an audio file that contains the title of the bookmark recorded by the user.

To efficiently use HSTP along with the browser framework a couple of modifications have been made to its functionality and operation as briefly outlined below.

VA2 and AC2 will be sent in case a voice link is being traversed or when the collaborative WWTW browser s Session Manager is sending session information to a VoiceSite. Hop number is no longer needed since the browser will be maintaining the user history. Also Type parameter has been removed because all VoiceSite traversals will be standard call transfers and the reconnection attempts will be monitored by the collaborative WWTW browser.

To efficiently maintain a user s or a group of users session information HSTP will now send the session information to the Session Manager of the collaborative WWTW browser as soon the user s connection to the VoiceSite is broken this also takes care of the use case when the collaborative WWTW browser connection disconnects while user is still browsing a VoiceSite .

Embodiments of the invention enable multiple users to engage in collaborative browsing of VoiceSites in the Telecom Web. The inventors have recognized limitations of conventional telephony systems prevent users of the WWTW from engaging in collaborative browsing. For example conventional types of conferencing are currently limited to essentially 1 dialing out to everyone and bridging everyone together in multi user conference call and 2 dialing in to a central number to participate in the multi user conference call.

Many restrictions accompany conventional conferencing techniques. For example if everyone is connected a user cannot send whispers private messages to some subset of users within the multi user conference call. Moreover if there is no central number users are bound by limitations of hardware on their local devices that is on their phones . Thus a user cannot for example put on hold a subset of users in a multi user conference call.

Furthermore bookmarked saved numbers are conventionally available only on the client side device for example stored in a contacts list of the user s phone . Again if there is no central number a user needs to know the number of the person to be conferenced in. In conventional systems it is often difficult or impossible to find out who else is connected by all users to the multi user conference call. Recording calls and sharing VoiceSite Resource Locators VRLs the number by which a VoiceSite is uniquely identified is likewise not available. Moreover a user must physically press buttons for hold conference et cetera.

Embodiments of the invention therefore provide for collaborative browsing on the WWTW. According to embodiments of the invention collaborative usage of the WWTW is enabled via connecting users and VoiceSites together using the collaborative WWTW browser. Embodiments of the invention provide mechanisms allowing WWTW users to visit voicesites together and engage in several forms of social interaction on the WWTW such as conferencing using simplified electronic devices and voice connections.

By way of non limiting example a tabbed browsing session according to an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in A B . In End User A is browsing VoiceSite C along with End User B. End User D End User E and End User F are all browsing VoiceSite G together. Thus a tab is active for End User A and End User B browsing VoiceSite C and a tab is active for End User D End User E and End User F browsing VoiceSite G . An active tab indicates that voice links are established between the tabbed entities.

While browsing VoiceSite C End User A may choose to put End User B on hold and start a conversation with End Users D and E with End User F being placed on hold. Accordingly the active tab becomes that between End User A End User D and End User E as shown in . Note that because the collaborative WWTW browser is managing the different legs of the calls for these users the users no longer in the active tab s are not necessarily disconnected from the WWTW and a user my re establish the connection or establish a new connection with another VoiceSite by using a simple command such as a back or forward command discussed further herein.

With collaborative browsing of the WWTW according to embodiments of the invention some possible actions include but are not limited to the following. End User A can choose to end or place on hold the conversation interaction with any of the currently connected parties either End Users or VoiceSites and continue with others. This is accomplished essentially by eliminating establishing the voice links with the desired entities. This selection is enabled via the collaborative WWTW browser through simple menu commands. End User A can also combine groups for example End User D End User E End User B and VoiceSite C into one large conference call. Moreover End User A can continue a conference call with End User D and End User E and also add End User B while disconnecting navigating away from VoiceSite C. A user on hold for example End User B and End User F can start their own conversation while they are on hold or can browse a VoiceSite for example VoiceSite C or VoiceSite G together by establishing new links to those sites. Any of the End Users can use hands free commands such as back forward new or exit to change start or end a conference link to another party either End User or VoiceSite .

Referring back to for example a user can utilize hands free commands via the collaborative WWTW browser as follows. A user currently visiting a VoiceSite can speak back communicated to Call Manager via link . The Call Manager can ascertain from the database the previous VoiceSite the user was at and link the user for example link to that VoiceSite. Similarly a user linked back to a previous VoiceSite can proceed forward again using a forward command. Moreover a user can call up a new VoiceSite and or End User or exit a VoiceSite and or disconnect from another End User by speaking the words new or exit respectively. Thus the Call Manager receives these commands and with the help of Command Interpreter determines the desired action s using the database and session handler as necessary to change the voice links being requested without dropping the call ending the session .

Accordingly utilizing a collaborative WWTW browser according to an embodiment of the invention multiple users can engage in an interactive and collaborative browsing of VoiceSites within the Telecom Web approximating WWW collaborative browsing sessions. Thus multiple users can visit VoiceSites together. By selectively placing users on hold a user can pass secret information like passwords contained in short voice messages to some users while this secret information can be hidden from other users for example by disconnecting them or placing them on hold . Utilizing the collaborative WWTW browser the users can establish separate voice links with one another in any combination or sub combination in order to share secret private information.

VoiceSites can be utilized in many different contexts. For example a VoiceSite can be utilized for training teaching browsing general classroom discussions and the like . Using a collaborative WWTW browser according to an embodiment of the invention one to one one to many classroom type and many to many conversations are easily managed. For example users can collectively or selectively converse with for example offer help to others who are logged in to a particular VoiceSite. Status messages like Ready to Help Do Not Disturb Ready to chat et cetera can be communicated amongst users within the VoiceSite. Moreover VoiceSites can be utilized for many other purposes such as hosting games for example a Battleship game or word games users guessing the same phrases where concealing each other s moves voice communications is desirable .

Moreover the VoiceSite can host any number of voice enabled applications such as a Help Agent for getting help while browsing a VoiceSite and then continue normally after talking to the Help Agent. Social interactions with friends on a VoiceSite can be implemented. For example a user can find out via consulting the database if their friends are currently online at one of many different VoiceSites hosted linked within the system to which the user has connected and then choose to connect to them start a conference visit a VoiceSite together send an online message et cetera. As will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art elaborate conferencing can be conducted using a system according to embodiments of the invention even if the user s phones do not support such conferencing normally and there is no central dial in number.

Moreover since the database can be utilized to store information such as contacts history and bookmarks of VoiceSites preferred by the user the user can share these bookmarks with other Telecom Web users. Thus the database entries can become common database entries for a group of users whenever they browse together. For example if a user says history to the collaborative WWTW browser during a call the collaborative WWTW browser can retrieve the common database entries common history or retrieve a union of all the users histories.

VoiceSites can be configured to automatically notify other users that a new user has logged into the VoiceSite or to make an outbound call to a user to notify them. History sharing for example of VoiceSites visited can be communicated to friends or trusted people. Voice site audioshots analogous to snapshots audio profiles can be stored and communicated among users. Any VoiceSite interaction can be recorded by a user and then shared with other people like radio programs . Regions or cultures where vocal approvals are required from people can be implemented using the VoiceSites for example a VoiceSite can make an outbound call to people for approvals entry of passwords et cetera . The system is also configurable to choose which parts of the conversation parties hear for example utilizing the tabbed browsing discussed herein hear .

As will be appreciated by those having ordinary skill in the art a collaborative WWTW browser can be implemented utilizing a wide variety of electronic devices. In this regard a non limiting and exemplary electronic device suitable for implementing embodiments of the invention is presented herein.

Referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of an illustrative embodiment of a computer system. The illustrative embodiment depicted in may be an electronic device such as a server or a laptop or desktop personal computer. As is apparent from the description however the embodiments of the invention may be implemented in any appropriately configured device as described herein.

As shown in computer system includes at least one system processor which is coupled to a Read Only Memory ROM and a system memory by a processor bus . System processor which may comprise one of the AMD line of processors produced by AMD Corporation or a processor produced by INTEL Corporation is a general purpose processor that executes boot code stored within ROM at power on and thereafter processes data under the control of an operating system and application software stored in system memory . System processor is coupled via processor bus and host bridge to Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI local bus .

PCI local bus supports the attachment of a number of devices including adapters and bridges. Among these devices is network adapter which interfaces computer system to LAN and graphics adapter which interfaces computer system to display . Communication on PCI local bus is governed by local PCI controller which is in turn coupled to non volatile random access memory NVRAM via memory bus . Local PCI controller can be coupled to additional buses and devices via a second host bridge .

Computer system further includes Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus which is coupled to PCI local bus by ISA bridge . Coupled to ISA bus is an input output I O controller which controls communication between computer system and attached peripheral devices such as a as a keyboard mouse serial and parallel ports et cetera. A disk controller connects a disk drive with PCI local bus . The USB Bus and USB Controller not shown are part of the Local PCI controller .

It should be noted as well that aspects of the invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer device partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be affected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure.

