---

title: Compressed sensing for navigation data
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, and systems are provided for processing positioning signals to obtain navigation information by applying compressed sensing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994587&OS=08994587&RS=08994587
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08994587
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to electronic devices and more particularly to methods apparatuses and systems for use in and or with navigation enabled devices.

Wireless communication networks provide connectivity among both fixed and mobile computing platforms to facilitate sharing of information. A popular and increasingly important wireless technology includes navigation systems and in particular those that are enabled for use with a satellite positioning system SPS that includes for example the global positioning system GPS and or other like Global Navigation Satellite Systems GNSSs . Positioning signals that are received by a navigation enabled device from one or more transmitting orbiting satellites and or terrestrial based transmitting stations may be processed to determine a corresponding position e.g. geographic location and or altitude of the navigation enabled device from which orientation path of travel velocity and or acceleration information may also be obtained.

In addition information in the form of electronic data continues to be generated or otherwise identified collected stored shared and analyzed. Such electronic data may take the form of media content such as images videos audio textual content and software for example. Some navigation enabled devices may further incorporate the capability to capture and share such media content with other computing platforms via communication networks. As one example the World Wide Web provided by the Internet continues to grow with seemingly continual addition of new information.

Implementations relating to processing of positioning signals are disclosed. In one implementation a method is provided that comprises sampling a positioning signal received at a navigation enabled device according to a sub Nyquist sampling rate to obtain a compressed sampling. The method may further comprise storing the compressed sampling at a storage medium and or initiating reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling to obtain navigation information indicated by the positioning signal. It will be appreciated that this summary merely describes an example implementation and that claimed subject matter is not limited to this particular implementation.

One principle of signal processing maintains that a signal such as a positioning signal should be sampled at a Nyquist sampling rate which may be defined as a minimum sampling rate applied in sampling a band limited signal needed to recover all information in the band limited signal which is twice the bandwidth of the band limited signal. Data obtained by sampling a signal at or above a Nyquist sampling rate is often subsequently compressed to reduce data size. The application of signal compression after sampling is recognized as a trade off between signal complexity e.g. data size and tolerance for signal error. Therefore such post sampling compression may be wasteful of processing resources.

As an alternative to sampling at a Nyquist rate signals such as positioning signals may be processed by applying what may be referred to as compressed sensing compressive sensing compressive sampling or compressed sampling in which a signal may be sampled and also compressed at a reduced sub Nyquist sampling rate i.e. a sampling rate that is less than a Nyquist sampling rate for a given signal . Such compressed sensing techniques may be particularly effective for signals that are sparse in a particular domain which includes for example positioning signals received from navigation systems.

Accordingly implementations relating to processing of positioning signals by applying compressed sensing are disclosed. In at least some implementations disclosed herein compressed sensing may be applied to positioning signals received at a receiver e.g. residing at a navigation enabled device by sampling the positioning signals at a sub Nyquist sampling rate to obtain a compressed sampling. The positioning signals may be subsequently reconstructed from the compressed sampling to obtain navigation information indicated by the sampled positioning signals. Such navigation information may include and or indicate for example a position e.g. geographic location and or altitude an orientation a path of travel and or a state of motion e.g. velocity and or acceleration of a navigation enabled device. Compressed samplings may for example be stored for subsequent reconstruction of positioning signals associated with media content for purposes of geotagging and or transmitted to remote computing resources via wireless communication networks for processing. Remote processing of compressed samplings may allow for a reduced signal processing burden at navigation enabled devices. Such compressed samplings may also reduce network burden otherwise associated with the transmission of data signals that are obtained by application of sampling rates that are equal to or in excess of a Nyquist sampling rate.

Navigation system may comprise any suitable navigation system and may include a Satellite Positioning System SPS and or a terrestrial based positioning system. Satellite positioning systems may include for example Global Positioning System GPS Galileo GLONASS NAVSTAR GNSS a system that uses satellites from a combination of these systems or any SPS developed in the future. As used herein an SPS will also be understood to include pseudolite systems. Terrestrial based positioning systems may include wireless cellular networks and WIFI networks among other suitable wireless communication networks. At least some terrestrial based positioning systems may utilize for example a trilateration based approach for identifying navigation information including and or indicating for example a position orientation path of travel and or state of motion of a navigation enabled device. Such trilateration may include Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT in CDMA or Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD in GSM or Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA in WCDMA which measures at a navigation enabled device the relative times of arrival of signals transmitted from each of several transmitter equipped base stations.

Accordingly navigation system may include a number of transmitters etc. to transmit one or more positioning signals that may be received by navigation enabled device . Transmitters etc. may be deployed at one or more orbiting satellites for SPS navigation system implementations and or one or more terrestrial based transmission stations e.g. base stations for terrestrial based navigation system implementations. It will be appreciated that navigation system may include any suitable number of transmitters. For example in the context of a GPS based SPS navigation system four or more e.g. including up to at least twelve satellite based transmitters may be concurrently utilized by navigation enabled device to obtain navigation information indicated by one or more positioning signals received from such transmitters.

Navigation enabled device may comprise any suitable electronic device that enables or provides navigation information services e.g. device positioning etc. . Non limiting examples of suitable electronic devices include a mobile computing device or computing platform such as a cellular phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant a low duty cycle communication device a laptop computer or a personal or vehicular based navigation unit among other examples or combinations thereof. In other examples navigation enabled device may take the form of one or more integrated circuits circuit boards and or the like that may be operatively enabled for use in another device.

Navigation enabled device may include a signal receiving subsystem for receiving positioning signals from the one or more transmitters e.g. transmitters etc. of navigation system . For example signal receiving subsystem may include at least a radio frequency receiver for receiving wireless positioning signal transmissions from one or more satellite and or terrestrial based transmitters of navigation system . Received positioning signals may be transmitted by navigation system to navigation enabled device according to any suitable transmission protocol including for example GPS Galileo GLONASS WIFI WiMAX Bluetooth CDMA GSM WCDMA etc. Hence it will be appreciated that the various implementations described herein are not limited in application to a particular transmission protocol.

Navigation enabled device may include a signal processing subsystem for processing at least in part positioning signals received from navigation system . In at least some implementations signal processing subsystem may include one or more processors e.g. digital signal processors microprocessors etc. such as processor . As one example processor may be adapted to execute instructions to perform at least some of the methods operations and processes described herein with respect to the following figures. Such instructions may be stored or held in storage media as instructions . It will be appreciated that signal processing subsystem may alternatively or additionally include other suitable electronic components beyond processor .

A non limiting example of signal processing subsystem is described in greater detail with reference to . Briefly however signal processing subsystem may be adapted to sample a positioning signal received at signal receiving subsystem according to a sub Nyquist sampling rate to obtain a compressed sampling. In at least some implementations such a compressed sampling may comprise a random sampling of the positioning signal received at the navigation enabled device. A compressed sampling in this context may be used to at least partially reconstruct a positioning signal to obtain navigation information represented by the positioning signal including for example a position of a receiver of the signal receiving subsystem . Signal processing subsystem may be further adapted to store the compressed sampling in data store of storage media where it may be retrieved for subsequent reconstruction of positioning signals. In at least some implementations signal processing subsystem may be adapted to reconstruct a positioning signal locally at the navigation enabled device from a compressed sampling. Alternatively signal processing subsystem may be adapted to initiate transmission of a compressed sampling to a remote computing resource for reconstruction of a positioning signal.

Navigation enabled device may include a media capture device for capturing media content items. Non limiting examples of media capture device include for example a camera e.g. for capturing dynamic video and or static images a microphone for capturing audio content and or a keypad for capturing textual content. Accordingly media content items captured by media capture device may include images videos audio and or textual content to name just a few examples. Such captured media content items may be stored at data store of storage media . It will be appreciated that media content items may be stored as encoded and or compressed digital data files. Such digital data files may include for example the .jpeg format for image files the .mpeg format for video files the .mp3 format for audio files and the .txt format for textual files to name just a few non limiting examples. As will be described in greater detail with reference process signal processing subsystem may be further adapted to associate compressed samplings that indicate navigation information with stored media content items to provide what may be referred to as geotagging of the media content items. Geotagging of media content items may include associating navigation information with a media content item that indicates for example a position where the media content item was captured or modified via the navigation enabled device.

A human operator i.e. user may interact with navigation enabled device via one or more input devices and or output devices. For example navigation enabled device may include an input device that comprises one or more of a keyboard a keypad a touch sensitive button a mouse a controller a touch sensitive graphical display e.g. a touch screen a microphone or other suitable device for receiving user input. Navigation enabled device may further include an output device comprising one or more of a graphical display an audio speaker a haptic feedback device or other suitable device for outputting e.g. presenting information to a user. It will be appreciated that in some implementations a common element may serve as both an input device an output device and or a media capture device . For example navigation enabled device may include a touch sensitive graphical display for presenting a graphical keypad. Such a touch sensitive graphical display may serve multiple functions as an input device an output device and a media capture device for capturing media content items e.g. textual content .

Navigation enabled device may communicate with other communication networks via communication interface . As a non limiting example communication interface comprises a wireless transceiver for communicating wirelessly with network via base station . It will be appreciated that navigation enabled device may communicate with base station via communication interface using any suitable communication protocol supported by a common network including for example communication protocols supported by WIFI WiMAX Bluetooth CDMA GSM and WCDMA to name just a few non limiting examples. However in other examples navigation enabled device may communicate with network via wired communication. For example base station may instead comprise a docking station or other suitable interface for facilitating wired or wireless communication between navigation enabled device and network .

Network may facilitate communication among a variety of network clients. For example network may facilitate communication between navigation enabled device and a remote computing resource e.g. a network server or other suitable computing platform . Network may comprise one or more wide area networks e.g. the Internet local area networks e.g. an intranet and or personal area networks. It will be appreciated that network may support any suitable communication protocol including the TCP IP Internet protocol suite. Further it will be appreciated that the communication protocol for network may differ from the communication protocol used by navigation system to communicate wirelessly with navigation enabled device and or the communication protocol used by navigation enabled device to communicate with base station . However in other implementations navigation system and clients of network e.g. such as remote computing resource may communicate with navigation enabled device via a common communication network and or associated communication protocol. For example signal receiving subsystem and communication interface may share common elements for facilitating communication with a variety of network components. Furthermore in at least some implementations network and base station may be omitted whereby remote computing resource may comprise a computing platform that is capable of communicating directly with navigation enabled device for example via wired communication e.g. via docking or wireless communication e.g. via a personal area network .

Remote computing resource may include a processor to execute instructions and a storage media having instructions stored thereon that are executable by processor to perform at least some of the methods operations and processes described herein. For example instructions may be executable by processor to obtain a media content item having a media component and a compressed sampling component. The compressed sampling component may comprise a sub Nyquist sampling of one or more positioning signals which may be employed in obtaining navigation information such as a position for example of navigation enabled device . Instructions may be executable by processor to process the compressed sampling component to obtain such navigation information. Furthermore instructions may be executable by processor to associate the navigation information e.g. obtained from the compressed sampling component with the media component of the media content item. Such association may be used to provide geotagging of media content items with navigation information indicated by the reconstructed positioning signals from the compressed samplings.

Radio frequency RF down conversion may be performed at block for positioning signals received via antenna . As one example antenna is representative of a component of signal receiving subsystem of . Next analog to digital conversion ADC of the positioning signals from an analog state to a digital state may be performed at block for example by an analog to digital converter.

In at least some implementations analog to digital conversion of positioning signals received at block may be accompanied by compressed sampling performed by a compressed sampling module of the analog to digital converter. In such implementations a signal output of the analog to digital converter may comprise a digital compressed sampling that is based at least in part on an analog signal input received via antenna .

As one example an analog compressed sampling may be obtained at block by sampling an analog signal received via antenna at a sub Nyquist sampling rate prior to converting the analog compressed sampling to a digital compressed sampling. Hence in this particular example analog to digital conversion may be performed after obtaining a compressed sampling of an input analog signal.

As another example a digital sampling may be obtained at block by converting an analog signal received via antenna from an analog state to a digital state at a sub Nyquist sampling rate prior to obtaining a digital compressed sampling. Hence in this particular example analog to digital conversion may be performed before obtaining a compressed sampling of the digital signal.

As yet another example an analog sampling may be obtained at block by sampling an analog signal received via antenna at a Nyquist sampling rate or at a higher rate than a Nyquist sampling rate prior to converting the analog sampling to a digital sampling. Compressed sampling at a sub Nyquist sampling rate may then be performed on the digital sampling that was obtained at a Nyquist or higher sampling rate to subsequently obtain a digital compressed sampling. Hence in this particular example sampling of an analog signal at a Nyquist or higher sampling rate may be performed prior to analog to digital conversion upon which compressed sampling may then be performed.

In each of the above examples compressed sampling of a signal whether digital or analog may be performed by a compressed sampling module e.g. compressed sampling module according to a compressed sampling algorithm. Signal samples that are converted to the digital domain from the analog domain may be selected by a compressed sampling module at random from the digital domain or may be selected according to some other suitable compressed sampling algorithm. For example compressed samplings may be obtained from positioning signals by utilizing non random sampling that is performed at a fixed rate or according to a defined rate function in at least some implementations.

In other implementations compressed sampling may be performed at other points or locations in the signal processing workflow. Hence compressed sampling as performed by compressed sampling module may be omitted from the analog to digital converter and the associated analog to digital conversion process in some implementations. Accordingly in such implementations an output of block may comprise an uncompressed digital signal.

Continuing with signal conditioning may be performed at block on digital signals output by block . Such digital signals may comprise compressed signals in implementations where compressed sampling module is implemented at block or may comprise uncompressed digital signals where compressed sampling is not performed at block . Signal conditioning may include any suitable conditioning of input digital signals including for example signal filtering signal decimation signal balancing in phase and quadrature modulation etc. Such signal conditioning may be performed before and or after compressed sampling is performed in order to further condition a compressed sampling or an uncompressed digital signal to thereby improve sampling reconstruction of positioning signals storage and or transmission of that compressed sampling or uncompressed digital signal. Signal conditioning at block may be omitted in some implementations such as where signal conditioning is instead performed at block .

At compressed sampling module compressed sampling may be performed on uncompressed digital signals that have been conditioned at block . However where compressed sampling was previously performed by compressed sampling module of block compressed sampling module may be omitted. Compressed sampling module may obtain compressed samplings by application of a compressed sampling algorithm as previously described with reference to compressed sampling module and as described in greater detail with reference to process flow of . Compressed samplings obtained from compressed sampling module and or compressed sampling module may be stored at sample memory in some implementations. As one example sample memory may comprise a portion of data store of . As a non limiting example sample memory may comprise a circular buffer.

However in some implementations compressed sampling modules and may be omitted whereby one or more positioning signals may be stored at sample memory after analog to digital conversion is performed at block and or signal conditioning is performed at block . For example in at least some implementations compressed sampling may be instead performed by compressed sampling module for one or more positioning signals stored at and subsequently retrieved from sample memory . Compressed sampling module may obtain compressed samplings of positioning signals by application of a compressed sampling algorithm as previously described with reference to compressed sampling module and as described in greater detail with reference to process flow of .

In at least some implementations compressed samplings of positioning signals may be associated with media content items by an association module . As one example association module may be adapted to associate a compressed sampling obtained from at least one of compressed sampling modules with a media content item by appending the compressed sampling to the media content item as a digital tag. As another example association module may be adapted to associate a compressed sampling obtained from at least one of compressed sampling modules with a media content item by storing the compressed sampling as metadata of the media content item e.g. at sample memory .

Further in at least some implementations a compressed sampling of a positioning signal may be associated with additional information by association module to aid in reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling. Such additional information may include for example a coarse time estimate and or a coarse position estimate among other suitable information. As one example association module may be adapted to associate a compressed sampling with such information by appending the information to the compressed sampling as a digital tag. As another example association module may be adapted to associate a compressed sampling with such information by storing the compressed sampling in association with the additional information at sample memory .

Further conditioning of the compressed sampling may be performed at block prior to reconstruction of the positioning signals from the compressed sampling at block . Signal conditioning may be performed at block in a similar manner as previously described with reference to the signal conditioning performed at block . For example baseband processing signal filtering signal decimation and or signal balancing may be performed in order to further condition a compressed sampling to thereby improve reconstruction of positioning signals storage and or transmission of that compressed sampling.

For implementations where power consumption and or signal processing resources are to be conserved at a navigation enabled device signal conditioning at block may be limited to processes that involve relatively lower power consumption and or signal processing burden. When reconstruction of positioning signals from compressed samplings is to be performed e.g. responsive to a position identification request further conditioning may be initiated for example on compressed samplings stored at sample memory before reconstructing positioning signals from those compressed samplings at block . In some implementations further conditioning of the compressed sampling at block may be performed at a remote computing resource such as remote computing resource of to further reduce processing burden and or power consumption at the navigation enabled device.

A compressed sampling that is obtained from one or more of compressed sampling modules may be processed by position engine to obtain navigation information e.g. a position indicated by the positioning signals reconstructed from the compressed sampling. As one example position engine may include a reconstruction module for reconstructing positioning signals from one or more compressed samplings to estimate a position indicated by such compressed samplings. Reconstruction module may be further adapted to utilize information associated with the compressed samplings such as coarse time and position estimates to aid in reconstruction of positioning signals of such compressed samplings as will be described in greater detail with reference to process of .

Furthermore in at least some implementations and under select operating conditions position engine may be further adapted to process positioning signals that are conditioned at block and or stored at block without undergoing compressed sampling at one or more of blocks . Hence compressed sampling of positioning signals may not be utilized under at least some conditions to process positioning signals. For example positioning signals may be instead sampled at Nyquist sampling rates or rates higher than Nyquist sampling rates to obtain position estimates. Furthermore in at least some implementations position engine may reside at a remote computing resource e.g. remote computing resource of rather than residing on board a navigation enabled device. Hence reconstruction of positioning signals from compressed samplings may entail communication e.g. via communication network of between a navigation enabled device and a remote computing resource in such implementations as will be described in greater detail with reference to .

For example in addition to navigation information that may be obtained from position estimates such as path of travel and or state of motion signals representative of inertial measurements obtained from inertial sensors residing on board a navigation enabled device may likewise be processed by application of compressed sensing. Such signals representative of inertial sensor measurements may be used in addition to or as an alternative to positioning signals to obtain estimates of position path of travel and or state of motion of a device and additionally to obtain estimates of orientation e.g. roll pitch and or yaw of the device. As such compressed sensing techniques described herein may be applied to other signals beyond positioning signals received from a navigation system.

At one or more positioning signals may be received from a navigation system. For example in the context of network environment a positioning signal may be received from navigation system by signal receiving subsystem of navigation enabled device . In some implementations a positioning signal received at operation may comprise one or more of a plurality of positioning signals that are sequentially received at the navigation enabled device over a period of time. Such positioning signals may be time stamped in accordance with a relative time at which the positioning signals are received at a receiver. Time stamping of the positioning signals or the resulting compressed samplings that are obtained from such positioning signals may enable position information indicated by the positioning signals to be used to estimate a path of travel of a navigation enabled device over a period of time.

Such positioning signals may comprise wireless signals in at least some implementations. Furthermore in at least some implementations positioning signals received at may comprise sparse signals. Sparse signals may refer to signals that contain at least some and often many coefficients that have a value that is close to or equal to zero when represented in at least some domain. For example positioning signals may be characterized as sparse in code code phase and frequency offset domains in at least some implementations. As one example with some satellite based navigation systems there may be fewer than twelve space vehicles e.g. satellites in view of a receiver at a particular position and time. A positioning signal received from a transmitter of the navigation system whether space or terrestrial based may form a peak if correlated with a locally generated signal. For example where a position of a receiver may be obtained from positioning signals received from at least four 4 transmitters the positioning signal may refer to a space that is 4 sparse.

At the one or more positioning signals may be sampled to obtain a compressed sampling. In at least some implementations a positioning signal may be sampled according to a sub Nyquist sampling rate to obtain a compressed sampling. A sub Nyquist sampling rate may refer to a sampling rate that is less than a Nyquist sampling rate for the given signal being sampled. For example a Nyquist sampling rate may be defined as twice the bandwidth of a band limited positioning signal.

Furthermore in at least some implementation the compressed sampling may comprise a random selection of discrete samples obtained from a positioning signal. Such random sampling of positioning signals may reduce the likelihood that periodically occurring components of the sampled signal are omitted from the compressed sampling. For example some non random sampling rates may have a sampling frequency that is a multiple of a frequency of the signal being sampled thereby potentially resulting in un sampled or under sampled signal components. However it will be appreciated that in some implementations compressed samplings may be obtained from positioning signals by utilizing a non random sampling that is performed at a fixed rate or according to a defined rate function. Such a fixed rate or defined rate function may be specifically adapted to characteristics of the particular positioning signals being sampled to avoid or reduce the occurrence of un sampled or under sampled signal components in the resulting compressed sampling. Obtaining a compressed sampling according to a random fixed rate or defined rate function may be performed according to a corresponding compressed sampling algorithm associated with the compressed sensing module.

Furthermore such positioning signals which may be sparse in a particular domain e.g. in code code phase and or frequency offset domains may be represented by a compressed sampling having a number of discrete samples m that is considerably less than a number of discrete samples n otherwise utilized for obtaining a Nyquist sampling rate. In particular a number of discrete samples of a compressed sampling may be represented by the following equation 2 phi psi log

Where C is a constant phi psi is a correlation coefficient that may be related to sampling and basis functions S is a sparsity of the data represented by the positioning signal and n is a dimensionality of the data. In this context n is representative of a number of discrete samples that may be taken at the Nyquist sampling rate which is the equivalent of the product of the Nyquist sampling rate and the duration of the sampling process. In some implementations C may be defined as being between 3.0 and 5.0 however it will be appreciated that other suitable values for constant C may be used. Coefficient S may be defined as being equal to a number of transmitters from which the sampled positioning signal is received. For example where a positioning signal is received by navigation enabled device as a combination of signal transmissions from at least four transmitters the positioning signal may refer to a space that is 4 sparse. Hence coefficient S may be equal to 4.0 in this particular example for a 4 sparse positioning signal.

As a non limiting example to capture 80 milliseconds of GPS signal data using compressed sensing which may be Nyquist sampled at a rate of 2 MHz a compressed sampling may comprise as few as 104 discrete samples as compared with 160 000 discrete samples using the Nyquist criteria. This example assumes 2 phi psi 1 as a minimal value C 5 and S 4 a minimal number of satellites for some GPS based navigation systems . These 104 discrete samples of the example compressed sampling at 6 bits for in phase and quadrature I Q components may be expressed as 156 bytes of information. For example where 6 bits of information are obtained for the in phase component and 6 bits of information are obtained for the quadrature component a total of 12 bits are obtained for each discrete sample. Hence where a compressed sampling comprises 104 discrete samples the total size of the data would be equal to 156 bytes of information. However in at least some implementations additional information such as coarse time and position estimates may be associated with the compressed sampling as described in greater detail with reference to operation . Accordingly a compressed sampling may have a data size that is larger than the 156 bytes of information of the above example. However compressed samplings obtained from positioning signals at a sub Nyquist sampling rate may still have substantially smaller data sizes than Nyquist rate sampled positioning signals even if additional information such as coarse time or position estimates are associated with the compressed samplings. Such a reduction in data size enables a compressed sampling to be transmitted between a navigation enabled device and a remote computing resource with less network burden and enables compressed samplings to be associated with media content items for purposes of geotagging without substantially increasing a data size of the media content item. Such a reduction in data size may also enable a storage capacity of a storage medium such as a circular buffer for storing such compressed samples to be reduced in size and or a sampling period of such compressed samples to be increased in duration relative to Nyquist or greater than Nyquist rate samplings for a given storage medium capacity.

At information may be associated with the compressed sampling obtained at to aid in reconstruction of positioning signals from the compressed sampling. Such information may include a coarse time estimate indicating a time at which the positioning signal of that compressed sampling was received at the navigation enabled device and or a time at which the positioning signal was processed to obtain the compressed sampling. The coarse time estimate may therefore serve as a timestamp for the compressed sampling. Such information may further include a coarse position estimate indicating one or more position estimates obtained for example from positioning signals received closely in time to the positioning signal of the compressed sampling e.g. as indicated by the associated coarse time estimates . As a non limiting example a coarse position estimate may indicate one or more longitude and or latitude values. In at least some implementations the above described information may be associated with a compressed sampling by appending the information to the compressed sampling itself or by storing the information in association with the compressed sampling e.g. at operation .

Coarse position estimates may be used in some implementations to further limit the domain of possible solutions for reconstructing a positioning signal from a compressed sampling. For example in the optimization problem described in greater detail with reference to operation of for reconstructing positioning signals from compressed samplings an absolute minimum of a particular search domain may be located more rapidly and more easily distinguished from local minimums by using course position estimates from one or more previous locations of the navigation enabled device in combination with the compressed sampling used to reconstruct positioning signals. In this way computation time associated with the reconstruction process may be reduced and or the accuracy of the reconstructed positioning signal from the sample may be increased by applying coarse position estimates to the reconstruction process.

At the compressed sampling obtained at may be stored. Where the compressed sampling is to be associated with other information such as coarse position and or coarse time estimates at operation the compressed sampling may be stored in association with such information. In the context of network environment of a compressed sampling may be stored at data store of storage media of navigation enabled device and or at storage media of remote computing resource . In some implementations the compressed sampling may also be stored in association with a media content item. For example as will be described in greater detail with reference to process of a compressed sampling may be utilized in a geotagging context to associate position indicating data with a media content item such as an image file a video file an audio file or a text file.

At reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling obtained at may be initiated to obtain navigation information such as an estimate of a position of a receiver for example of a navigation enabled device. Reconstruction of a positioning signal from a compressed sampling may be performed by application of a reconstruction algorithm by a computing platform such as a navigation enabled device or a remote computing resource.

As one example consider a real valued finite length discrete time signal x. Signal x may be represented as a vector x in R N of dimensions N 1 in terms of an orthonormalbasis x . R in this context comprises a set of real numbers and R N comprises the set of vectors of length N having each element in the real numbers of set R. Here x is considered S sparse if sub N 1 has at most S non zero components and sub N N is an orthogonal basis. Signal x is considered nearly S sparse if sub N 1 has S large coefficients and the remaining N S are small but not equal to zero.

The optimization problem to be solved is to solve for the vector a that satisfies the above equation with minimal L1 norm where a is a member of R N. Accordingly the minimization problem in this example is to minimize L1 norm of over all in R N such that y . Specifically Min 1

The L1 norm minimization problem can be recast in the standard form of a linear program for which efficient algorithms exist namely Min 1

In at least some implementations the above equation may be solved through a computational search of the space e.g. a brute force search . However a computational search approach may be impractical for most real problems as the size of the space may be sufficiently large. Therefore numerous reconstruction algorithms have been developed to more efficiently solve this type of linear programming problem beyond merely a computational search approach. Such reconstruction algorithms may utilize an efficient approximation approach that that solves a minimization problem which seeks to minimize or considerably reduce below a threshold value one or more of search time and or solution error. Non limiting examples of reconstruction algorithms alternatively referred to as recovery algorithms employing an efficient approximation approach include matching pursuit including regularized orthogonal matching pursuit gradient pursuit iterative thresholding and affine scaling transformation algorithms among others.

In at least some implementations reconstruction of a positioning signal from a compressed sampling may be performed at the navigation enabled device that initially received the positioning signal. For example in the context of network environment of reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling may be performed by signal processing subsystem of navigation enabled device .

In other implementations reconstruction of a positioning from a compressed sampling may be performed at least in part at a remote computing resource. For example in the context of network environment of navigation enabled device may initiate transmission of the compressed sampling to remote computing resource for reconstruction of the positioning signal. Remote computing resource may then reconstruct the positioning signal from the compressed sampling obtained from navigation enabled device to obtain navigation information such as an estimate of a position of the navigation enabled device. In at least some implementations such navigation information may be transmitted back to the navigation enabled device or may be provided to other suitable computing resources or processes relying on the navigation information.

At capture of a media content item may be initiated at a navigation enabled device such as navigation enabled device . As previously described with respect to navigation enabled device media capture device may include for example a camera an audio microphone a keypad etc. Accordingly a media content item captured at operation may include for example video content image content audio content textual content etc. In at least some implementations capture of a media content item may be initiated responsive to receiving a user input at the navigation enabled device for example via an input device. As one example a user input for initiating capture of a media content item such as an image or a video may be received as a user activating a shutter release button for a camera of the navigation enabled device. As another example a user input for initiating capture of a media content item may be received as a user launching a software application such as a media capture application at the navigation enabled device.

At sampling of a positioning signal may be initiated to obtain a compressed sampling responsive to initiating capture of a media content item at operation . For example a signal processing subsystem of a navigation enabled device e.g. signal processing subsystem may be adapted to receive an indicator signal from a media capture device e.g. media capture device that indicates that a media content item has been captured is anticipated to be captured e.g. as indicated by launching of a software application for capturing a media content item or is currently being captured by the media capture device. The indicator signal may be generated by the media capture device for example responsive to receiving a user input for initiating capture of a media content item.

At the compressed sampling may be associated with the media content item. As one example associating the compressed sampling with the media content item comprises appending the compressed sampling to the media content item as a digital tag. As another example associating the compressed sampling with the media content item comprises storing the compressed sampling as metadata of the media content item. As yet another example a compressed sampling identifier may be associated with the media content item e.g. as metadata or a digital tag which may be referenced by the navigation enabled device or a remote computing resource to retrieve a compressed sampling from a storage medium that corresponds to the compressed sampling identifier.

At transmission may be initiated of the media content item and associated compressed sampling to a remote computing resource for reconstruction of the positioning signal. For example in the context of computing environment of a compressed sampling may be transmitted from navigation enabled device to remote computing resource as metadata or a digital tag of a media content item with which the compressed sampling is associated. As another example where a compressed sampling identifier is instead associated with the media content item the compressed sampling and the media content item may be separately transmitted to the remote computing resource.

At reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling may be performed at the remote computing resource to obtain the position information or other navigation information indicated by the positioning signals.

At the estimate of the position or other navigation information obtained from reconstruction of the positioning signal from the compressed sampling may be associated with the media content item. Such navigation information may be interpreted by a media presentation application to reference navigation information with presentation of a media content item at a computing platform.

At a plurality of positioning signals may be received from a navigation system. For example as previously described at operation of a positioning signal may be received at a navigation enabled device from one or more transmitters of a navigation system. In the context of operation the positioning signal may comprise one of a plurality of positioning signals received at a navigation enabled device e.g. sequentially and or in parallel over a time period.

At the plurality of positioning signals may be sampled to obtain a plurality of compressed samplings. For example operation may include sampling the plurality of received positioning signals according to one or more sub Nyquist sampling rates over a time period to obtain a plurality of compressed samplings.

At the plurality of compressed samplings may be stored. For example operation may include sequentially storing the plurality of compressed samplings in a circular buffer e.g. at data store of navigation enabled device . As previously discussed such compressed samplings may be of a smaller data size than Nyquist or greater than Nyquist rate samplings to enable a reduction in a storage capacity e.g. size of the circular buffer storage of a greater number of compressed samplings and or storage of compressed samplings having a longer sampling duration than such Nyquist rate samplings.

At reconstruction may be initiated of the positioning signals from the plurality of compressed samplings to obtain an estimate of a path of travel of the navigation enabled device. As previously described with reference to operation reconstruction may be performed using any suitable algorithm to obtain position information. Such position information obtained from two or more positioning signals received over a period of time may be assembled to provide an estimate of the path of travel.

In at least some implementations received positioning signals and or compressed samplings obtained from such positioning signals may be time stamped to enable a path of travel to be assembled. For example is a diagram illustrating an example path of travel of a navigation enabled device. An initial position of the navigation enabled device may be estimated from a compressed sampling obtained for a corresponding time T . At a later time T an estimated position of the navigation enabled device may be obtained from a subsequently obtained compressed sampling. At still later times T and T estimated positions of the navigation enabled device may be obtained from other compressed samplings that are obtained from received positioning signals. Hence the estimated positions obtained at times T through T may be used to indicate a path of travel of the navigation enabled device over a given time period.

Once a position of a navigation enabled device has been estimated e.g. for time T that position may be used to aid in the reconstruction of positioning signals from other compressed samplings e.g. for time T . For example a coarse position estimate associated with a compressed sampling may be used to aid in reconstructing a positioning signal from that compressed sampling. Combining two or more compressed samplings may improve the accuracy of position estimation and or reduce computation time associated with reconstruction of a positioning signal from a compressed sampling by reducing a size of a domain that is searched in the above described optimization problem.

Additionally it will be appreciated that velocity and or acceleration information may be obtained from two or more estimated positions by computing for example a distance travelled by the navigation enabled device between the two or more estimated positions within a known period of time between receiving and or processing of the corresponding positioning signals.

At a position identification request may be initiated. In at least some implementations operation may be performed by a navigation enabled device by initiating a position identification request responsive to receiving a user initiated request to obtain navigation information e.g. a position of the navigation enabled device . For example navigation enabled device may receive a user initiated request via input device and in response initiate a position identification request.

As another example a user initiated request may include a user initiating loading of a media content item for presentation at a navigation enabled device. Navigation enabled device may include for example one or more software applications e.g. stored as instructions for facilitating presentation of media content items at the navigation enabled device or other computing platform. Non limiting examples of such software applications include a video player application an image viewer application an audio player application a text viewer or editor application etc. In response to receiving a user initiated request to present a media content item a position identification request may be initiated to obtain position information or other navigation information associated with the media content item. Such software applications may be adapted to initiate a position identification request on behalf of the user e.g. responsive to a request to reference navigation information associated with a media content item . In at least some implementations an operating system of the navigation enabled device or other suitable computing platform may be adapted to receive position identification requests from software applications via an application programming interface API and initiate reconstruction of positioning signals from compressed samplings in response thereto.

Furthermore in at least some implementations a position identification request may be initiated according to a position update time interval. For example a navigation enabled device may be programmed to initiate reconstruction of positioning signals from compressed samplings according to a predetermined processing schedule. As a non limiting example a position identification request may be initiated at a particular time interval e.g. every 30 seconds or other suitable time interval to obtain position updates from compressed samplings. Such compressed samplings may be retrieved from a storage media or may be sampled in real time from positioning signals received at a navigation enabled device.

At if a position identification request has not been initiated and or received then a first mode may be performed whereby compressed samplings may continue to be obtained from received positioning signals and stored at . Alternatively at if a position identification request has been initiated and or received then a second mode may be performed whereby further conditioning and or reconstruction of a positioning signal from a compressed sampling may be initiated at . Hence operation may be varied between a first mode and a second mode of operation responsive to whether a position identification request has been initiated and or received. However in at least some implementations sampling and or storage of compressed samplings may continue to be performed in parallel with further conditioning and or reconstruction of positioning signals from compressed samplings at operation .

Furthermore in at least some implementations a select compressed sampling of a plurality of compressed samplings may be retrieved from a storage media e.g. a circular buffer responsive to obtaining a position identification request. The select compressed sampling may correspond to a previously received positioning signal. In at least some implementations the select compressed sampling may comprise a most recently obtained compressed sampling e.g. the last compressed sampling to be stored at the storage media to thereby obtain a position fix for the navigation enabled device corresponding to a most recently measured position. Accordingly a positioning signal may be reconstructed from the select compressed sampling to identify navigation information indicated by the corresponding previously received positioning signal. Hence position identification requests may be utilized to estimate a position of a navigation enabled device at any time in the past for which a compressed sampling has been obtained and stored.

Position determination techniques described herein may be implemented in conjunction with various wireless communication networks such as a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and so on. The term network and system are often used interchangeably. A WWAN may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network a WiMAX IEEE 802.16 network and so on. A CDMA network may implement one or more radio access technologies RATs such as cdma2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA and so on. Cdma2000 includes IS 95 IS 2000 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network may implement Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS or some other RAT. GSM and W CDMA are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . 3GPP and 3GPP2 documents are publicly available. A WLAN may be an IEEE 802.11x network and a WPAN may be a Bluetooth network an IEEE 802.15x or some other type of network. The techniques may also be implemented in conjunction with any combination of WWAN WLAN and or WPAN.

The methodologies described herein may be implemented in different ways and with different configurations depending upon the particular application. For example such methodologies may be implemented in hardware firmware and or combinations thereof along with software. In a hardware implementation for example a processing unit may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other devices units designed to perform the functions described herein and or combinations thereof.

The herein described storage media may comprise primary secondary and or tertiary storage media. Primary storage media may include memory such as random access memory and or read only memory for example. Secondary storage media may include mass storage such as a magnetic or solid state hard drive. Tertiary storage media may include removable storage media such as a magnetic or optical disk a magnetic tape a solid state storage device etc. In certain implementations the storage media or portions thereof may be operatively receptive of or otherwise configurable to couple to other components of a computing platform such as a processor.

In at least some implementations one or more portions of the herein described storage media may store signals representative of data and or information as expressed by a particular state of the storage media. For example an electronic signal representative of data and or information may be stored in a portion of the storage media e.g. memory by affecting or changing the state of such portions of the storage media to represent data and or information as binary information e.g. ones and zeros . As such in a particular implementation such a change of state of the portion of the storage media to store a signal representative of data and or information constitutes a transformation of storage media to a different state or thing.

In the preceding detailed description numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods and apparatuses that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the preceding detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital electronic signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated as electronic signals representing information. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals information or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating identifying determining establishing obtaining and or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this particular patent application the term specific apparatus may include a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software.

Reference throughout this specification to one example an example certain examples or exemplary implementation means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the feature and or example may be included in at least one feature and or example of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one example an example in certain examples or in some implementations or other like phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same feature example and or limitation. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in one or more examples and or features.

While there has been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example features it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all aspects falling within the scope of appended claims and equivalents thereof.

