---

title: Document based fleet management
abstract: Architectures and techniques are described to manage a site according to the content of a number of documents. In some cases, the number of documents may include a fleet state document that specifies aspects related to the site, such as performance metrics. Additionally, fleet creation documents may be created that indicate tasks to be executed in order to realize the aspects specified in the fleet state document. Further, task attribute maps specifying values for the attributes of each task upon execution may also be created. A workflow engine may execute the tasks of the fleet creation documents according to the values of the task attribute maps in order to configure computing devices of a fleet to realize the aspects of the fleet state document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08676943&OS=08676943&RS=08676943
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08676943
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
Businesses often provide information to customers via a site that is accessible via a network such as the Internet. In some cases managing the site may include managing a number of different systems. Each of the systems may be dedicated to a different function or set of functions. For example some site management systems may include a load balancing system a failure handling system a software deployment system and so on.

Although the systems may be interdependent with changes to one system affecting the other systems each of the systems are often managed separately. Managing the systems separately may increase the risk of misconfiguring one of the systems. For example one or more systems may not modify their configuration to compensate for changes to the configuration of another system. In some instances a misconfiguration of one or more of the systems may lead to a failure of the site.

In addition the systems utilized to manage the site may be initially provisioned separately and or put into service at different times. Inconsistencies and redundancies produced by provisioning and managing the systems separately can increase the resources utilized to manage and provision the systems managing the site. Further provisioning and managing systems of multiple sites in an ad hoc manner may be inefficient and expensive.

This disclosure describes architectures and techniques to manage a site according to the content of a number of documents. In some cases the number of documents may include a fleet state document that specifies aspects related to the site. For example the fleet state document may specify performance metrics for the site such as an availability of the site download time for pages of the site etc. The fleet state document may also specify other aspects such as a data center redundancy for the site a number of computing devices to manage the site an amount of data storage for the site software executed by computing devices managing the site latency requirements relating to requests for information from the site implementing terms of one or more service level agreements capacity of the site set up costs of the computing devices managing the site and so on. In some instances the fleet state document may be created by a customer of a site management service that manages the site. In other instances the fleet state document may be created internally by a business or individual in relation to management of their own website or websites.

Based on the fleet state document a fleet management server may determine a configuration of a plurality of computing devices to realize the aspects of the site included in the fleet state document. The computing devices utilized to realize the aspects of the fleet state document may be referred to herein as a fleet. In an illustrative implementation a customer of a fleet management service may provide the fleet state document to the fleet management server and the fleet management server may determine a number of tasks to be executed to realize the aspects of the fleet state document and identify a number of resources to execute the tasks. Fleet creation documents may be created to specify the number of tasks to be executed to realize the aspects of the fleet state document. The fleet management server may also determine one or more attributes associated with each of the tasks and respective values of the attributes that will realize the aspects of the fleet state document. Task attribute maps may be created specifying the tasks attributes and their respective values. A workflow engine may utilize the fleet creation documents in conjunction with the task attribute maps in order to execute tasks to realize the aspects of the fleet state document.

In this way a customer can specify a particular performance and or qualities of a site in the fleet state document without providing details about how the performance and or qualities of the site will be achieved. In some cases the process of configuring computing devices to achieve the aspects of the fleet state document is performed by the fleet management service. Thus the involvement by the customer in managing the fleet to achieve a site with the desired performance and or qualities is minimized. However the fleet state document can also include specific instructions from the customer regarding management of the site if desired.

Additionally the fleet management server may coordinate operation of the systems utilized to manage the site to eliminate redundancies. For example when a particular task is to be performed by a number of the systems the fleet management server may allocate a particular set of resources to execute the task for all of the systems. Further as the state of one or more of the systems changes the fleet management server can modify the operation of the other systems accordingly in order to prevent misconfiguration of any of the systems. In some cases the state of a system may be modified in response to a modification of the fleet state document.

The fleet management server may also provision and manage multiple sites. In particular the fleet management server may receive fleet state documents for a number of sites and determine configurations of a number of fleets corresponding to each site. In some cases the computing devices of the fleets utilized to manage the sites may overlap. For example certain computing devices may be configured to provide load balancing for a number of sites while another set of computing devices is configured to provide software deployment services to the number of sites. In any case the operations of the fleet management server may be scalable to efficiently manage a number of sites.

The architecture also includes a workflow service to manage the site . In some cases the workflow service may be utilized by a service provider to provision and manage the site for a customer of the service provider. In other cases the workflow service may be an internal component of an entity such as an online retailer that provisions and manages the site for the entity.

In the implementation shown in the workflow service includes a configuration management system to configure the systems . In particular the configuration management system may configure computing devices implementing the systems to produce a respective state for each of the systems such as states . The states may represent a configuration of a respective system properties of a respective system a status of one or more operations performed by a respective system or a combination thereof.

In an illustrative implementation the workflow service receives the fleet state document . For example the workflow service may receive the fleet state document via a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Put request. The configuration management system may then provide instructions to configure a number of computing devices implementing the systems to produce the specified states .

Additionally the workflow service includes a state management system to identify the respective states that fulfill the requirements of the fleet state document . Additionally the workflow service includes a task management system to determine a number of tasks to produce the specified states and to execute the tasks.

In some instances the task management system includes a workflow engine. The workflow engine may execute tasks determined by the task management system to produce the states and consequently realize the aspects of the fleet state document . To illustrate executing the tasks may involve sending instructions to computing devices implementing the systems to configure the respective computing devices to produce the states . In addition the workflow engine may specify the order in which the tasks are executed merge one or more tasks split one or more tasks and determine dependencies between one or more tasks.

The systems may include a load balancing system to direct the distribution of computations executed to manage the site across a number of computing devices. The systems may also include a monitoring system to identify failures with respect to the site and an automated failure handling system to perform one or more remedial actions based on any identified failures. For example the automated failure handling system may identify a host that is not functioning properly and take that host out of service. In other examples the automated failure handling system may identify a malfunctioning disk a malfunctioning kernel a wrong version of a kernel and or a malfunctioning network card and take action to remedy the failure such as rebooting a computing device with a malfunctioning component or producing a ticket that alerts technical support staff to address the failure.

The systems may also include a log analysis and aggregation system such as a real time log analysis RTLA system. The log analysis and aggregation system may provide one or more logs of operations of computing devices of a fleet. For example the log analysis and aggregation system may provide metrics of fatal errors that occur with respect to the site . The logs provided by the log analysis and aggregation system may be used to identify problems with the site and be utilized to fix the problems.

Further the systems may include a phased deployment system that tests software before deployment to a fleet. To illustrate a phased deployment system may distribute a new version of software and or a new application to a small number of computing devices of a fleet and replicate the production environment in order to test the new software and work out any bugs before deployment to the entire fleet. Additionally the systems may include a deployment system to deploy software to the fleet.

The systems may also provide their respective states to the workflow service . The workflow service may determine whether or not the state matches a state specified for the respective system by the workflow service based on the fleet state document . When a current state does not match the state specified by the workflow service the workflow service may execute one or more tasks in relation to the corresponding system to modify the current state of the system to match the specified state.

Systems may also be added to the environment . For example a billing system may be added to the number of systems . A system may be added based on aspects of the site provided in the fleet state document . In response to the changes to the fleet state document the task management system may determine a number of tasks to provision and manage the new system and then execute the tasks utilizing a workflow engine. The task management system may also determine additional tasks to be executed with respect to the systems based on the addition of the new system.

The fleet state document may be provided to a fleet management service that manages sites for a number of customers. The fleet management service may include a configuration management system that provides instructions to configure a fleet to produce a specified state for systems utilized to provide certain functionality for the site . The fleet includes a number of computing devices N . The computing devices may include one or more servers one or more routers one or more switches one or more mainframe computers one or more personal computers and or one or more other suitable computing devices such as a Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID a storage area network wireless communication devices telephony devices e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP routers private branch exchange PBX devices etc. electronic mail servers configurable universal power supplies and so on. Although shows that the fleet includes four computing devices the fleet may include any number of computing devices .

The fleet management service also includes a state management system to identify respective states of systems implemented by the fleet that fulfill the requirements of the fleet state document . Additionally the fleet management service includes a task management system to determine a number of tasks to provision and manage the fleet and to execute the tasks by sending instructions to the fleet . The instructions may be executed by the fleet to produce a number of states . The states may represent one or more states of particular systems implemented by the fleet such as the systems of .

The fleet management server may comprise a single server a cluster of servers a server farm or data center and so forth although other server architectures e.g. a mainframe architecture may also be used. The fleet management server may communicate with the fleet via a network . The network may be representative of any one or combination of multiple different types of wired and wireless networks such as the Internet cable networks satellite networks wide area wireless communication networks wireless local area networks and public switched telephone networks PSTN .

In some cases the fleet management server may be part of a fleet management service or a workflow service that manages fleets for a number of sites. In other situations the fleet management server may be part of an entity that is supporting the management of the site . For example the fleet management server may be part of an online retailer that provides the site to customers to access information regarding products and or services offered for purchase by the online retailer.

The fleet management server includes one or more processors indicated by the processor . The fleet management server also includes memory that is accessible by the processor . The memory is an example of computer readable storage media and may include volatile memory nonvolatile memory removable memory non removable memory or a combination thereof. For example the memory may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory one or more hard disks solid state drives optical memory e.g. CD DVD or other non transient memory technologies. The memory may store a number of modules including computer readable instructions executable by the processor to manage one or more fleets.

The memory includes a fleet management data store . The fleet management data store may store one or more documents related to provisioning and maintaining fleets such as the fleet . In particular the fleet management data store stores a fleet state document . The fleet state document may specify one or more aspects related to the site . For example the fleet state document may specify performance metrics for the site such as availability of the site download time for pages of the site etc. The fleet state document may also specify states for one or more systems implemented by the fleet . To illustrate the fleet state document may indicate a particular failure handling configuration for an automated failure handling system for the site that is implemented by the fleet . Further the fleet state document may specify one or more tasks to be performed in order to manage the site such as a task to configure the fleet to provide a certain amount of data storage for the site .

The fleet state document may be stored in the fleet management data store by the fleet state document module . The fleet state document module may receive the fleet state document from the computing device via the network . In some cases the computing device may be operated by a user . The user may represent a customer of an entity hiring a fleet management service to manage the site . The user may also represent an employee of an entity including the fleet management server where the entity is supporting management of the site . In any case the user may access one or more user interfaces via the computing device to create the fleet state document . In an illustrative example the user may create the fleet state document by producing a JavaScript Object Notation JSON record that includes metrics and or characteristics for the site such as 99.99 availability two data center redundancy a fleet size of 1000 computing devices and so on. The user may send the fleet state document to the fleet management server via an HTTP Put command or otherwise.

The fleet management data store also stores task attribute maps such as the task attribute map . The task attribute maps associate an attribute of a task with a value. For example a task to create a virtual IP address may be associated with attributes indicating a name of a DNS server for the virtual IP address a type of virtual IP address a maximum number of connections to the virtual IP address and a port for the virtual IP address. The task attribute maps may specify values associated with each of the attributes of the create virtual IP address task such as frontend or backend for the virtual IP address type and US PCI 1080 for the name of the DNS server. In some cases the task attribute values may be JAVA objects that represent the values of the attributes.

The task attribute maps may also include a fleet document template . In particular the fleet document template is a task attribute map associated with a particular type of fleet. The type of the fleet may be associated with certain task attributes and certain task attribute values that are specified in the fleet document template . For example the fleet may be associated with a particular site application platform utilized to build the site and the type of the fleet may be the particular site application platform. In this example the fleet document template may include task attributes related to the particular site application platform such as memory threshold host type and process count along with the respective values for these task attributes based on the particular site application platform.

Each type of fleet serviced by the fleet management server may be associated with a respective fleet document template such as the fleet document template . The respective fleet document templates may include some task attributes common to the other fleet document templates. In some cases the respective fleet document templates may also include different task attributes. Further although some of the respective fleet document templates include the same task attributes the values of the task attributes may be different.

Additionally the task attribute maps may include one or more fleet documents such as the fleet document . The fleet document is a task attribute map associated with a particular fleet such as the fleet . The fleet document may indicate certain task attributes and their corresponding values for the fleet . In addition the fleet document may reference one or more additional task attribute maps. For example the fleet document may reference a fleet document template such as the fleet document template . Further the fleet document may reference an additional task attribute map such as a task attribute map relating to virtual IP address creation task attributes and values.

By creating fleet document templates and fleet documents the fleet management server may efficiently provision and manage a fleet. For example by creating a fleet document template for a particular type of fleet and enabling fleet documents to reference the fleet document template task attributes and their respective values can be incorporated into the fleet document without having to perform an operation adding each of these task attributes and their respective values to each fleet document which saves time and resources. Thus the task attribute and task attribute value information for a particular type of fleet can be efficiently re used without having to duplicate efforts. This also ensures consistency in characteristics between fleets of a certain type.

The fleet management data store also stores fleet creation documents that may be utilized to provision and or manage the fleet . The fleet creation documents include a fleet creation details template . The fleet creation details template may include a number of tasks executed to manage and provision the site . In addition the fleet creation details template is associated with a particular type of fleet. Thus certain tasks may be associated with different types of fleets. In some scenarios the fleet creation details template may reference other fleet creation details templates. In this way the tasks associated with each of the referenced fleet creation details templates are incorporated into the fleet creation details template .

The fleet creation documents also include a fleet creation details document . The fleet creation details document is a fleet creation details template in that it specifies tasks to be executed to manage and provision a site such as the site . In addition to specifying certain tasks to be executed to provision and manage the fleet the task creation details document may also reference one or more additional fleet creation details templates. Thus a task list for the fleet creation details document may include tasks included in the fleet creation details document as well as tasks specified by the fleet creation details templates that are referenced by the fleet creation details document .

Further the fleet creation details document is associated with a particular fleet such as the fleet and includes task metadata that indicates the progress of the tasks. For example the fleet creation details document may reference a URL to a task execution state resource. The execution state of a particular task may be succeeded failed in progress or queued.

In a particular implementation the tasks of the fleet creation details template and the fleet creation details document are associated with particular rules that relate to the execution of these tasks. For example the rules may indicate dependencies between tasks such that one task is not executed until another task is completed. In some situations the tasks may have the rules embedded in them such as via annotations. In other situations the rules may be included in a separate rules file such as a Drools file.

The memory also stores a configuration management system to manage the respective configurations of the computing devices of the fleet in order to manage the site . The configuration management system may be executable by the processor to manage the fleet management data store . For example the configuration management system may persist different versions of the documents of the fleet management data store as the tasks attributes values and so on of the documents change in order to manage the site according to aspects of the fleet state document . Thus different configurations of the fleet may be saved by the configuration management system for posterity and or for rollback if necessary. The configuration management system may also persist different versions of the fleet state document as the aspects of the fleet state document change over time. At least a portion of the configuration management system may be implemented according to a Representational State Transfer REST architecture.

Further the memory stores a state management system to manage the states of systems implemented by the fleet and a task management system to execute tasks to provision and manage the site . In particular the state management system includes a state identification module . The state identification module is executable by the processor to identify a state of a system implemented by the fleet . For example the state identification module may identify a state of a load balancing system a state of a log analysis system and so on. In some cases the respective state of the systems of the fleet may be specified in the fleet state document . In other cases the state identification module may identify the state of a system based on aspects provided in the fleet state document . To illustrate the state identification module may identify a state of a load balancing system implemented by the fleet to achieve aspects in the fleet state document such as a two 2 data center redundancy.

The state management system also includes a state management module that is executable by the processor to determine a current state of the systems implemented by the fleet and determine whether any action is necessary to change the state of a particular system. In particular the state management module may compare a current state of a system with a state of the system identified by the state identification module based on the fleet state document . When the current state of the system does not match the specified state the state management module may invoke the task management system to execute one or more tasks to modify the current state of the system to match the specified state.

The task management system includes a task determination module that is executable by the processor to determine tasks that are executable to realize the aspects provided in the fleet state document and realize the states of the systems implemented by the fleet according to the contents of the fleet state document . For example the fleet state document may specify two 2 data center redundancy for the site and the task determination module may determine the tasks that are to be executed in order to achieve the two 2 data center redundancy. In another example the state of an automated failure handling system may be a particular failure handling configuration and the task determination module may determine tasks that are executable to realize the particular failure handling configuration.

In addition to determining the tasks that are executable to realize the aspects of the fleet state document the task determination module may determine certain attributes for each task and the corresponding values of the tasks in order to realize the aspects of the fleet state document . For example when the task determination module determines that a virtual IP address task is to be executed the task determination module may also associate the virtual IP address creation task with certain attributes such as a type of the virtual IP address and a name of a DNS server for the virtual IP address. Further the task determination module may determine the values associated with the attributes of the virtual IP address creation task e.g. backend for the type of virtual IP address and US PCI 1080 for the name of the DNS server .

The task management system also includes a document creation module that is executable by the processor to create documents such as the documents that can be utilized to provision and manage the fleet . In some situations the document creation module may also create the fleet state document based on input received from the user . Any documents created by the document creation module may be stored in the fleet management data store by the configuration management system .

In a particular implementation the document creation module may identify the tasks produced by the task determination module and create a fleet creation details document such as the fleet creation details document that includes those tasks. In some cases the document creation module may determine that at least a portion of the tasks are based on the type of the fleet . In these cases the document creation module may create a fleet creation details template such as the fleet creation details template that includes the tasks that are based on the type of the fleet . Additionally the document creation module may determine that some of the tasks are associated with an existing fleet creation details template and reference the existing fleet creation details template when creating the fleet creation details document .

The document creation module may also create documents related to the attributes and their corresponding values that are associated with the tasks. In a particular implementation the document creation module may create task attribute maps such as the task attribute map to specify attributes of tasks and their respective values. When a task attribute map is associated with a particular type of fleet such as all fleets providing sites via a particular site application platform the document creation module may create a fleet document template such as the fleet document template that specifies the task attributes and values for the particular type of fleet. Additionally when a task attribute map is associated with a particular fleet such as the fleet the document creation module may create a fleet document such as the fleet document that specifies the task attributes and values associated with the particular fleet. In some cases the document creation module may create a fleet document template that references one or more additional task attribute maps. The document creation module may also create a fleet document that references one or more fleet document templates and or one or more additional task attribute maps.

The task management system also includes a workflow engine that is executable by the processor to execute tasks related to provisioning and managing the fleet . The workflow engine may initiate a workflow session each time that a fleet is to be provisioned or updated.

In an illustrative implementation in order to provision the fleet the workflow engine may parse the fleet creation details document one or more fleet creation details templates such as the fleet creation details template or a combination thereof to identify tasks to be executed to provision the fleet and the respective attributes of those tasks. In addition the workflow engine may parse the fleet document one or more fleet document templates such as the fleet document template one or more additional task attribute maps such as the task attribute map or a combination thereof to identify values of the attributes of the tasks in the fleet creation details document and or the fleet creation details template .

After identifying the tasks to be executed to provision the fleet and the values of the attributes of the tasks the workflow engine may identify a respective resource to execute each of the tasks. For example the task execution resources may be a URL or a script running on a particular host. In order to execute each task the workflow engine may utilize an HTTP Put command to the URL of the resource or send a command to a particular computing device to invoke the corresponding script.

In some cases the workflow engine executes the tasks in the order specified in the fleet creation details document and or the fleet creation details template . In other cases one or more of the tasks to be executed to provision the fleet may be associated with certain rules. For example the rules may indicate that some tasks are to be executed in a particular order. The rules may also indicate procedures for dealing with conflicts between tasks.

The workflow engine may also receive a task execution state for each task. The task execution state provided to the workflow engine may include a name of the task being executed the name of the fleet for which the task is being executed and a workflow session identifier. The state of execution for a particular task may include queued in progress succeeded and or failed.

In some implementations the fleet state document may be modified and the configuration management system the state management system and the task management system are executable by the processor to alter the fleet to accommodate the changes to the fleet state document . For example a new system may be implemented by the fleet . In particular the user may modify the fleet state document or provide an additional fleet state document to add the new system to be implemented by the fleet . In another example the aspects of the fleet state document may be changed. To illustrate the user may designate three 3 data center redundancy rather than two 2 data center redundancy in the fleet state document.

In response to a modification of the fleet state document or receiving an additional fleet state document related to the fleet the state identification module may determine whether a state of one of the systems implemented by the fleet needs to be modified or determine a new state for a newly added system. Additionally the task determination module may determine tasks needed to implement the new state and or the new aspects based on the changes to the fleet state document or the additional fleet state document. The document creation module may create new task attribute maps and fleet creation documents or modify the existing task attribute maps and the existing fleet creation documents to reflect the changes to the fleet state document . For example new tasks may be added to the fleet creation details document or to the fleet creation details template . Further attributes associated with the newly added tasks and corresponding values of the attributes may be added to the task attribute map the fleet document template the fleet document or a combination thereof. In some cases merely the values of existing task attributes may be modified in response to the modification of the fleet state document and new tasks and any corresponding attributes may not need to be added to the task attribute maps and or the fleet creation documents .

After the task attribute maps and the fleet creation documents have been modified according to the changes to the fleet state document the workflow engine may execute newly added tasks and or execute existing tasks according to new attribute values. In some cases when new tasks are added the new tasks may be associated with newly added task execution resources and the workflow engine may utilize an HTTP Put command or invoke a script to execute these new tasks. Additionally an execution state for each of the newly added or newly executed tasks is returned to the workflow engine from the respective task execution resource.

The Task A and the Task B may be associated with a fleet creation details template . The fleet creation details template is also associated with a fleet type . The fleet type may correspond to a particular configuration of the fleet or a particular site application platform utilized by the fleet to provide the site.

The fleet creation details template may be part of a fleet creation details document . The fleet creation details document may be associated with the fleet type and also with a fleet name . The fleet name may designate a particular site that is provided by the fleet. The fleet creation details document may also include each of the tasks to be executed in order for the fleet to implement the systems utilized to manage the site. The fleet creation details document may include tasks other than those from the fleet creation details template . In particular certain tasks may be passed into the fleet creation details document from a task management system and or from other fleet creation details templates.

The values for the attributes Attribute and Attribute of Task A and Task B respectively may be stored in task attribute maps that associate each task attribute with a value. The value of the task attribute may be based on a particular metric or other aspect of a fleet state document. As shown in a task attribute map includes the task attribute and its respective value value . Additionally a fleet document template includes the task attribute and its respective value value . The fleet document template is associated with the fleet type . The task attributes and their values from the task attribute map and the fleet document template may be incorporated into the fleet document . The fleet document is associated with the fleet name .

Each of the tasks Task A and Task B is associated with a particular task execution resource. For example the Task A is associated with a task execution resource and the Task B is associated with a task execution resource . The task execution resources and may be URLs and or scripts running on a host.

In order to execute tasks a workflow engine such as the workflow engine of may parse the fleet creation details document to determine tasks that are to be executed such as the Task A and the Task B . The workflow engine may also determine the values of the attributes of the tasks by parsing the fleet document . For example the workflow engine may determine that the task attribute of the Task A is associated with the value and that the task attribute of the Task B is associated with the value . The workflow engine may utilize an HTTP Put command to send the tasks to be executed and the values of their respective attributes to the corresponding task execution resources. Thus the workflow engine may provide the value of the Task A to the task A execution resource and the value of the Task B to the task B task execution resource . After executing the Task A and the Task B the task execution resources may return an execution state A associated with the Task A and an execution state B associated with the Task B to the workflow engine. The workflow engine may then store the execution states in association with the fleet creation details document .

At the fleet management service determines a respective configuration of a plurality of computing devices to realize the aspects of the fleet state document. The plurality of computing devices may be a fleet that implements systems managing the site for the customer. The configuration of each computing device of the fleet may relate to software executed by a particular computing device certain tasks executed by the particular computing device and so on that are needed to realize the aspects specified in the fleet state document.

At each of the plurality of computing devices is provisioned according to the respective configuration of each of the plurality of computing devices. For example certain software may be deployed to specified computing devices. Additionally storage space and or processing resources of the computing devices may be provisioned according to the respective configurations.

At the respective configuration of one or more of the plurality of computing devices is modified when one or more aspects related to the site are altered. For example the customer may change some of the aspects of the fleet state document such as increasing the amount of storage space dedicated to the site. In another example the customer may modify the fleet state document to indicate adding a new system to the fleet such as a billing system or load balancing system. In any case the configuration of at least a portion of the computing devices of the fleet is modified in order to realize the modified aspects of the fleet state document.

At a plurality of computing devices operable to produce the state of the system are identified. For example a particular fleet or a particular portion of the fleet dedicated to implementing the system is identified. At one or more tasks executable by the plurality of computing devices to produce the state of the system are determined.

At one or more attributes of a particular task are determined. The attributes may be determined based on a resource associated with the task that includes each of the attributes of the task. At a value of each of the one or more attributes of the particular task is determined. The attributes may correspond to producing the state of the system specified in the request. In other words when the task is executed to produce the respective value of each of the attributes or a portion of the attributes then the state of the system is realized or at least partially realized. In a particular example when the task is executed to produce the value in conjunction with a number of other tasks being executed to produce their respective values then the state of the system is realized. At the plurality of computing devices are configured to produce the value of each of the one or more attributes of the particular task.

At tasks are determined that are executable to realize the aspects related to providing the site. At one or more fleet creation documents indicating the tasks may be automatically created. For example a fleet creation details document such as the fleet creation details document of of may be created that includes a list of the tasks to be executed to realize the aspects of the fleet state document.

At values for attributes of the tasks needed to realize the aspects related to providing the site are determined. At one or more task attribute maps associating the task attributes with their respective values may be automatically created. In some cases the task attribute map may be a fleet document template when the task attribute map is associated with a particular type of fleet. In this way certain task attributes are associated with certain values for particular types of fleets such as computing devices configured with a particular site application framework. In other cases when the task attribute map is associated with a particular fleet such as a group of computing devices managing a particular site the task attribute map may be a fleet document.

At the tasks are executed to produce the corresponding values of their respective attributes to realize the aspects of the fleet state document. To illustrate a workflow engine may access the fleet creation documents to determine the tasks to be executed to realize the aspects of the fleet state document and also access the task attribute maps to identify the values of the attributes of the tasks to be achieved upon execution. Thus by executing the tasks of the fleet creation documents to produce the task attribute values of the task attribute maps the computing devices of a fleet can be configured to operate in a manner that realizes the aspects of the fleet state document.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims

