---

title: Method and apparatus for reduction of non-adaptive signals in photo-EMF sensors
abstract: A method and apparatus for a photoinduced electromotive force sensor. The sensor has an active substrate formed of a semi-insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective charge grating and pairs of electrodes disposed on the active substrate, where the sensor is configured to reduce the photovoltaic effect caused by the incident light in the vicinity of the electrodes. The shape or composition of the electrodes may be selected to reduce the photovoltaic effect or the electrodes may be disposed on the substrate to average out the photovoltaic effect arising from each one of the electrodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08030122&OS=08030122&RS=08030122
owner: HRL Laboratories, LLC
number: 08030122
owner_city: Malibu
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 367 073 filed on Mar. 3 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 658 956 filed on Mar. 4 2005 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated wherein by reference.

The present application may have subject matter similar to that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 721 B1 granted Jan. 29 2002 to Nolte et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0151102 A1 published Aug. 14 2002. The contents of U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 721 B1 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0151102 A1 are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. F33615 95 2 5245 awarded by DARPA. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to non steady ph oto induced electromotive force EMF sensors and more specifically to an apparatus and method for improving the performance of photo EMF sensors by minimizing or eliminating spurious noise sources.

A non steady state photo induced electromotive force photo EMF device can generate time varying photocurrents in response to a corresponding lateral and rapid shift of an optical pattern across its surface. The optical pattern may have for example the form of a moving optical fringe pattern or a moving speckle pattern. Conventional photodetectors on the other hand respond only to changes in the incident light level and not to the lateral motion of an optical pattern. For example if there are several fringes incident on the surface of a conventional photodetector there may not be any response to a moving pattern since as each bright fringe leaves the active region of the conventional photodetector another bright fringe may enter the active region at the same time from the opposite side of the active region.

A photo EMF sensor resembles a conventional semiconductor detector however to provide the pattern response characteristics described above it can develop an internal lateral electric field that stores the spatial intensity pattern of an incident optical beam. shows a conventional photo EMF sensor comprising a detection substrate and a pair of surface electrodes . To provide the photo EMF function the detection substrate is typically formed of a semi insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective space charge grating. also shows an intensity pattern of an incident laser beam with the resulting lateral internal space charge field developed in the material between the electrodes . The detection substrate may comprise gallium arsenide and the surface electrodes may comprise a titanium gold alloy.

One application of a photo EMF sensor is in a velocity or differential sensing interferometer system in which the photo EMF sensor acts as a fringe processing unit. See for example the system described by Pepper et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 909 279 Ultrasonic Sensor Using Short Coherence Length Optical Source and Operating Method issued Jun. 1 1999. In such a system interference fringes are directed onto the surface of a photo EMF sensor. Photo generated carriers are then produced which diffuse away from regions of intense optical radiation. These carriers become trapped and formed a periodic charge pattern and the corresponding space charged field. In the absence of any change in the interference pattern the space charge field is static and no net current is produced from the photo EMF detector. However if the interference pattern changes at a sufficiently high rate the space charge field can not track the changes and a net current is produced by the photo EMF sensor.

Hence a key feature of a photo EMF sensor is that it senses rapid motion of an optical pattern across its surface by generating a photo EMF current in response to the rapidly moving pattern. As noted above the pattern may be a set of interference fringes resulting from the interference of two light beams and the rapid motion of the pattern may be the result of one of the beams experiencing a dynamic phase shift. In a laser ultrasound probing system the dynamic phase shift may be the result of motion in a probed surface. In a laser communication receiver the motion may be due to phase modulation encoded onto a light beam. The photo EMF sensor is adaptive since static and slowly varying changes such as those due to beam wander vibrations thermal effects turbulence are adaptively tracked.

The photo EMF sensor will produce no current for such changes as long as the space charge field formation time is faster than the changes. Thus the photo EMF sensor can adaptively compensate for the effects due to these changes. This adaptive compensation capability makes the photo EMF sensor extremely attractive for multiple applications since the sensor detects high bandwidth information while suppressing low bandwidth noise.

Photo EMF sensors known in the art may comprise a plurality of interlaced electrode pairs e.g. interdigitated contacts. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 721 issued Jan. 29 2002 to Nolte et al. See also Nolte et al. Enhanced Responsivity of Non Steady State Photoinduced Electromotive Force Sensors Using Asymmetric Interdigitated Contacts Optics Letters vol. 24 no. 5 March 1999 pp. 342 344. These references disclose the use of multiple contacts with alternating wide and narrow active area spacings with the currents from the wide spaced active area regions summed while the narrow areas are optically blocked or rendered insensitive. The use of multiple contacts helps improve the response of the photo EMF sensor while using narrow active areas that are optically blocked or rendered insensitive helps decrease the back action current that may arise from proximate electrodes.

However in photo EMF sensors known in the art even those using multiple electrodes the photo EMF sensor may not always track out or adapt to all the undesirable noise owing to photovoltaic i.e. band bending effects at or near the electrodes. Those skilled in the art recognize that a band bending region exists as a small region near a metal contact on semiconducting material which has an electric field that emerges from the contact and goes into an active area. This band bending region arises because the Fermi energy of the metal pins at a surface energy different than a Fermi level of the semiconducting material. The electric field may exist over a limited distance from the contact which may be in the range of several microns from the contact. The band bending region and the photovoltaic effect are well known to those skilled in the art of conventional semiconductors and photodetectors.

However in photo EMF sensors known in the art the response of the photo EMF sensor to an optical pattern that travels through the band bending region is different than the response of the sensor as the optical pattern travels through other portions of the active region or regions of the sensor. That is as the optical pattern moves through the electric field gradient due to the photovoltaic effect a measurable current is generated even at low frequencies of the lateral motion of the pattern. This effect may result in large voltage output level variations from the presence of dynamic and spatial amplitude changes in the optical intensity near the electrodes whose time scales can range from DC a fixed pattern feature near an electrode to the upper limit of the detection bandwidth. As such these noise sources are not adaptively compensated. This can result in significant saturation of subsequent high gain amplifiers as well as a degradation in the system dynamic range. Simply AC coupling the sensor to the amplifiers will not eliminate this problem especially in the case of signals whose bandwidths are similar to the photovoltaic induced noise.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus for reducing the noise effects caused by an interaction of the optical pattern incident on the surface of a photo EMF sensor and the electrodes used to couple current from the sensor. Embodiments of the present invention may use selected materials and or selected shapes for the electrodes to reduce the photovoltaic effect arising from the electrodes. Preferably the Fermi energy of the metal of the electrodes roughly matches up with the Fermi level of the semiconducting material in the vicinity of the electrodes. Embodiments of the present invention may use spatial and or temporal averaging of the photovoltaic effect arising from each electrode to result in an overall lessening of the photovoltaic effect. The spatial and or temporal averaging may be accomplished by choosing desired shapes sizes and or spacing for electrodes. The spatial and or temporal averaging may also be accomplished by patterning or rotating the light incident on the sensor.

One embodiment of the present invention comprises a photoinduced electromotive force sensor receiving incident light where the sensor comprises an active substrate formed of a semi insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective charge grating and at least one pair of electrodes disposed on the active substrate where the photo EMF sensor is configured to reduce the photovoltaic effect caused by the incident light in the vicinity of the electrodes.

Another embodiment of the present invention comprises a method of making a photoinduced electromotive force sensor comprising the steps of providing an active substrate fabricating at least one pair of electrodes on the substrate and configuring the sensor to reduce the photovoltaic effect caused by incident light in the vicinity of the electrodes.

Still another embodiment of the present invention comprises a photoinduced electromotive force sensor apparatus comprising an active substrate formed of a semi insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective charge grating and means for sensing a time varying photocurrent in response to a shift of an optical pattern across a surface of the active substrate where the means for sensing is configured to reduce the photovoltaic effect caused by light incident on the surface of said active substrate.

Still another embodiment of the present invention comprises a photoinduced electromotive force sensor comprising a substrate formed of a semi insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective space charge grating and a plurality of interlaced electrode pairs disposed over the substrate each electrode pair including two parallel electrodes defining an active area therebetween with an active area width for each electrode pair one electrode of each pair being disposed between an adjacent pair of electrodes and proximate one electrode of the adjacent pair wherein the active area width for each electrode pair varies from the active area width for an adjacent electrode pair.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown.

This invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Further the dimensions of electrodes and other elements shown in the accompanying drawings may be exaggerated to more clearly show details. The present invention should not be construed as being limited to the dimensional relations shown in the drawings nor should the individual elements shown in the drawings be construed to be limited to the dimensions shown.

As discussed above a significant source of noise or non adaptive signals in a photo EMF sensor may result from the photovoltaic effects at or near the electrodes used in the sensor. Embodiments of the present invention reduce the photovoltaic effect as described below.

A first approach for reducing the photovoltaic effect according to embodiments of the present invention is to select an appropriate contact material that provides a smaller band bending i.e. depletion region. Some metals or metal alloys are known in the art to provide smaller band bending regions but these metals or metal alloys may also reduce the sensitivity of a photo EMF sensor in which these metals or metal alloys are used in the electrodes. Hence a tradeoff may be required between the reduction of the nonadaptive component caused by the photovoltaic effect and the overall sensitivity of the sensor. The tradeoff may depend upon the frequencies which are to be detected by the sensor since the nonadaptive component primarily appears at low frequencies and sensitivity of the sensor generally rolls off at higher frequencies.

Conventional photo EMF sensors typically use Titanium Gold Ti Au electrodes since Ti Au contacts are typical in the art of ohmic contacts used in the semiconductor industry. However contacts comprising Ti Au generally create a relatively large band bending region that results in a relatively large non adaptive photo EMF noise signal. This non adaptive problem is especially pronounced at low frequencies. See for example which shows the frequency response see triangles labeled as of a conventional photo EMF sensor using Ti Au contacts. Specifically note that the frequency response is essentially flat at lower frequencies less than 1000 Hz .

A first embodiment according to the present invention is provided by forming the electrodes of the photo EMF sensor using a gold germanium Au Ge eutectic which is then annealed or forming the electrodes using platinum Pt . Au Ge is known to produce more ohmic behavior and Au Ge contacts will have a smaller depletion region with less band bending than the Ti Au contacts used with prior art photo EMF sensors. Pt demonstrates ohmic behavior similar to that of Au Ge. Therefore in the photo EMF sensor depicted in the surface electrodes may comprise a Au Ge eutectic or Pt rather than a gold titanium alloy. Note however that the formation of the electrodes using a AuGe eutectic or Pt must be compatible with the sensor materials and fabrication. Photo EMF sensor electrodes formed in this manner have been shown to significantly minimize the non adaptive component in the sensor output. Returning to the measured frequency response of a photo EMF sensor using Au Ge electrodes is shown by squares designated as element . Note that the photo EMF device having conventional electrodes has an undesirable nonadaptive noise floor at low frequencies see triangles labeled whereas the device with Au Ge electrodes shows a desired linear relationship between frequency and voltage output essentially free of spurious nonadaptive response. Other embodiments of the present invention may use other materials for contacts to provide a smaller band bending region.

As indicated above the use of materials for contacts that provide smaller band bending regions may also result in decreased sensitivity for the photo EMF sensor. For example the use of either Au Ge or Pt ohmic contacts may result in a photo EMF sensor that has a sensitivity that is 2 to 5 times less than that of a sensor using Ti Au contacts. Hence a photo EMF sensor using Au Ge or Pt ohmic contacts may be less desirable than one using Ti Au contacts since it may be less sensitive to a given fringe motion amplitude. However if minimizing the nonadaptive component is desired a photo EMF sensor according to the present invention using Au Ge Pt or similar material for the ohmic contacts may be more desirable than one using Ti Au contacts. Hence according to some embodiments of the present invention selection of an appropriate material for the photo EMF sensor contacts provides for sensors with the desired response in regard to the nonadaptive components.

As discussed above according to some embodiments of the present invention one approach to reducing the photovoltaic effect due to the contacts is by selection of appropriate material for the contacts. According to other embodiments of the present invention another approach is to modify the semiconducting material in a region around the contacts to decrease the band bending around the contacts. For example another embodiment according to the present invention uses selective ion implantation in a small region preferably 1 2 microns near the electrodes in the active area of a photo EMF sensor. depicts a photo EMF sensor comprising a substrate and electrodes . As shown in the photo EMF sensor further comprises implantation regions located in the vicinity of the electrodes. Localized ion implantation modifies the band bending near the electrodes which minimizes the non adaptive noise source.

The non adaptive signals of a photo EMF sensor may also be reduced by greater contact homogeneity. Greater contact homogeneity should make the non adaptive signal less susceptible to speckle. shows an embodiment of a photo EMF sensor according to the present invention that provides more homogeneous contacts. As shown in the photo EMF sensor comprises a substrate contacts and contact regions . The contact regions may be formed in a fashion similar to that described above for . Thin layers of the contact material are disposed on the substrate and the contact regions are ion implanted through the thin layers with doping ions. After ion implanting thick layers of the contact material are applied to the thin layers to form the contacts . The contact regions preferably comprise ion implanted n type regions preferably implanted Si in GaAs or implanted P in Si .

The band bending of the sensor depicted in may be worse than the other embodiments described above but the strength of the nonadaptive photovoltaic effect depends on the volume of the depletion band bending region. shows the depletion region around one of the contacts of the sensor depicted in . shows that the volumes of the depletion region may be small even though the amount of band bending provided in the depletion region may be quite large. As shown in the contact also provides a shadow region which shields much of the depletion region from light incident on the sensor . Hence the only contribution to the non adaptive signal from the sensor would be from light incident on that small portion of the depletion region not under the metal contact .

The undesirable non adaptive noise is maximized under conditions where the electrodes of the photo EMF sensor see the same spatial intensity feature along their lengths. The maximization of the noise effect occurs because the photovoltaic induced voltage level results from a given intensity at or near the electrodes which can either be fixed in time or dynamically varying. Given that the optical pattern incident on a photo EMF sensor is typically in the form of an interference pattern lines of uniform intensity constructive interference are typically parallel to the surface electrodes. depicts interference pattern fringes parallel to the surface electrodes on the active substrate of the photo EMF sensor . Given this symmetric situation the same intensity may be present parallel to and along the entire length of the electrode thus maximizing the non adaptive noise effect.

Therefore if the electrodes and the optical pattern are configured such that the symmetry described above is avoided the non adaptive noise effect should be reduced. That is if the photovoltaic effect can be spatially or temporally averaged out the non adaptive noise effect should be minimized. Discussed below are several approaches according to embodiments of the present invention that may be used alone or combined to achieve the desired minimization of the non adaptive noise effect.

In some embodiments according to the present invention it is preferable that the intensity of the light in the vicinity of the electrodes be non uniform to provide for the desired spatial averaging of the photovoltaic effect. Note that a speckle light pattern provides for non uniform intensity since the speckle spots are randomly distributed near the electrodes resulting in a spatially averaging effect. However photo EMF sensors as described above are often deployed to detect motion in parallel interference fringe patterns.

The interference pattern fringes may be rotated in relation to the parallel electrodes of a photo EMF sensor to vary the intensity along the surface electrodes. depicts rotated interference pattern fringes incident on the active substrate . Since the interference pattern fringes are not parallel to the surface electrodes the light intensity varies along the surface electrodes resulting in reduced non adaptive noise.

However rotation of the interference pattern fringes such that they are not parallel to the surface electrodes will reduce the current output of the photo EMF sensor and thus result in a decreased signal to noise ratio. Further tilting the interference pattern fringes may result in some periodicity to the noise since the fringe pattern may be periodic.

Another embodiment of a photo EMF sensor according to the present invention uses serrated or jagged electrodes. By fabricating the electrodes so that they are jagged different locations along the electrode will experience different intensity levels in the case of a uniform optical fringe parallel to the electrode . Therefore the photovoltaic effect will be spatially averaged out by the serrated pattern on the electrode. shows a photo EMF sensor comprising an active substrate and a pair of serrated electrodes . also depicts lines of parallel interference fringes showing that the serration of the electrodes provides that different locations of the electrodes will experience different optical intensity levels. Preferably the electrodes are fabricated such that the amplitudes of the jagged edges are greater than the optical fringe spacing so that the desired averaging is achieved. Returning to the results of measurements of a photo EMF sensor output using electrodes with jagged features are shown by the circle elements . Again a near linear response is shown to occur over the frequencies of interest.

As discussed above providing non uniform intensity near the electrodes reduces the non adaptive noise. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the optical fringe pattern itself is intentionally made irregular or jagged spatially so as to achieve a similar effect as the serrated electrode pattern discussed above. Since the photovoltaic effect results from a local field gradient the spatial averaging i.e. elimination of this spurious source can be either accomplished by fabricating a jagged pattern on an electrode edge to provide the desired voltage averaging as above for an incident parallel optical fringe or by modifying the optical fringe lines of constructive interference as to be jagged so that illumination of this jagged optical line in the presence of a straight and parallel electrode can realize the same effect of averaging.

The interference pattern incident on a photo EMF sensor may be obtained by illuminating the sensor with two laser beams a reference beam and a probe beam which has the desired time dependent phase shifting signal to be sensed. The reference beam is typically a plane wave no phase distortions while the probe beam is typically distorted. In an interferometer system the distortion may be due to having been scattered from a rough cut work piece. In a communication system the distortion may be due to propagation through a turbulent atmosphere. Therefore in the case of minor phase aberrations the optical interference pattern is basically parallel with some small spatial features.

In a system in which the photo EMF sensor is illuminated by the interference pattern created by two beams either one beam the other or both may be intentionally aberrated so that at any time there will be bright as well as dark regions that strike the electrodes of the photo EMF sensor. In such a case the electrodes of the photo EMF sensors may be straight electrodes because the irregular nature of the interference pattern provides the desired averaging of the nonadaptive component. illustrates an interferometer system in which a distorting apparatus is used to distort a reference beam to create a distorted reference beam . The distorted reference beam typically arrives at a probe beam at an angle from 1 to 10 degrees. The beams then combine to create an interference pattern that illuminates the photo EMF sensor . In alternative embodiments the distorting apparatus may be placed in the path of the probe beam or both beams .

The distorting apparatus may comprise a fixed spatial phase mask. The mask may be in the form of a computer generated glass plate a predistorted mirror surface a randomly distorted chemically etched plate or other such apparatus or methods known in the art. Alternatively the distorting apparatus may comprise a multi mode fiber that provides a highly speckled interference pattern. The predistortion of either or both beams should result in an irregular interference pattern at the sensor. Therefore even in the presence of a set of perfectly straight and parallel eleCtrodes a spatial averaging of the photovoltaic induced voltage levels will occur along the length of the electrodes resulting in the desired elimination of the non adaptive noise term.

The embodiment of the present invention using predistorted optical fringe patterns may be preferred over the serrated electrode discussed above since high electric fields may occur at the tips of the jagged structure which may be undesirable. Also since the electrode pattern is fixed changes in the jagged features cannot be easily made if there are materials variations etc. Also the jagged electrode pattern may not be as mechanically stable e.g. liftoff may occur as a symmetric parallel structure.

As discussed above the non adaptive signal from a photo EMF sensor arises due to the presence of interference fringes in the depletion i.e. band bending regions near the contacts. Therefore the non adaptive signal may be reduced by eliminating the presence of the interference fringes in the depletion regions. depicts an embodiment of a photo EMF sensor according to the present invention in which a light beam carrying a signal is limited to an area of the photo EMF sensor away from the depletion regions. As shown in the sensor comprises a substrate and contacts . However imaging optics i.e. a mask are used to limit the exposure of a signal carrying beam to a portion of the substrate that is spaced away from the contacts by the diffusion length i.e. the width of the band bending regions. A reference beam still illuminates the entire sensor as shown by the reference illumination area . The use of a mask for the signal beam to provide that the signal beam only illuminates a portion of the substrate and the provision of a reference illumination area as shown in provides that there is no shadowing of any portion of the device resulting in high resistance regions while also providing that the interference fringes occur away from the depletion regions. Of course this approach may also be used with other embodiments of photo EMF sensors according to the present invention described above and below.

Photo EMF sensor having asymmetric interdigitated contacts AIDC s are known in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 342 721 discussed above. Photo EMF sensors with AIDCs have alternating wide and narrow active area spacings with the currents from the wide spaced active area regions summed while the narrow areas are covered by an optically opaque or reflective layer to prevent backaction photo emf. depict two pair and three pair electrode embodiments respectively of photo EMF sensors using the AIDC design. In both and wide surface electrodes are electrically connected to narrow surface electrodes on an active substrate . An opaque layer is used to block the illumination between the narrow surface electrodes to prevent backaction photo EMF. In the two pair electrode sensor depicted in the active region spacing has a width of W 2 where W is the width of the active region of a single pair photo EMF sensor providing the same amount of photo emf current. In the three pair sensor depicted in the width of the active regions between the electrodes is W 3.

In photo EMF sensors using the AIDC design the function of the AIDC electrode pattern is to provide photo emf current summation at each fringe of a multi fringe pattern whose spacing is typically on the order of a carrier diffusion length about 60 m for GaAs . Generally photo EMF sensors fabricated using multiple electrode pairs will demonstrate an improvement in performance roughly equal to the number of electrode pairs used. For example a 32 electrode pair photo EMF sensor has demonstrated a factor of 32 times improvement in the detector responsivity over a single pair sensor. However such AIDC photo EMF sensors have also demonstrated the same non adaptive noise source as has been shown in single electrode pair devices. The spurious signal noise source tends to be prominent when the optical fringe pattern matches the spatial period or a spatial harmonic thereof . Thus when a Moire like interference pattern begins to appear the spurious signal becomes dominant.

Reduction of the non adaptive noise in photo EMF sensors using the AIDC design may be obtained by using the techniques described above. That is the AIDC electrodes may be fabricated from materials selected to reduce the photovoltaic effect and or the material around the electrodes may be treated to reduce the photovoltaic effect. The AIDC electrodes may also be serrated and or the optical fringe pattern may be serrated. However finely spaced electrode patterns may be difficult to serrate sufficiently physically or optically for the desired averaging effect to take place.

In another embodiment of the present invention the electrode spacings on the active substrate in a photo EMF sensor having AIDC electrodes are staggered. That is even though all the electrodes are straight and parallel the interdigitated electrodes are formed so that the spacing of the active regions is not the same for all electrode pairs. This may be achieved for example by varying the widths of the active regions between the electrodes by varying the gaps of the back action regions or by varying the width of the electrodes themselves.

The staggering of the active regions can either be simply random over a given range of widths chirped made Gaussian or using a well defined sequence a Fibbinochi set as an example . shows a photo EMF sensor with an incident interference fringe pattern comprising a pair of wide surface electrodes a plurality of narrow surface electrodes and an active substrate with active regions having random widths w w w w w.

Alternative embodiments of the present invention comprise an array of short length yet parallel AIDC electrodes are that arranged in sets of rows and columns so that a reasonable electrode aspect ratio length to width can be maintained as well as for graceful degradation in the case of an electrically open or shorted AIDC column. illustrate various embodiments of a sensor comprising sets of AIDC electrodes arranged in a two dimensional array. illustrates a sensor with sets of AIDC electrodes which may be spaced internally in a varying pattern as described above that are laid out in a regular pattern. illustrates a sensor where each AIDC electrode set may be spatially staggered with respect to adjacent AIDC electrode sets . This combined set of staggered electrodes rows and columns will tend to provide additional spatial averaging across the entire area of the sensor. Of course the electrode sets may also only be staggered in a row wise sense or a column wise sense.

Alternative embodiments of the present invention may also comprise sets of short length but parallel AIDC electrodes where the orientation of the electrodes in each set are rotated with respect to the electrodes in another set. illustrates a sensor with sets of AIDC electrodes which may be spaced internally in a varying pattern that are laid out in a regular pattern but the adjacent sets are rotated 90 degrees with respect to each other. Finally illustrates a sensor with sets of AIDC electrodes that are tilted differently with respect to each other over small angles for example 10 either within a AIDC column and or across the AIDC rows to achieve yet additional spatial averaging of the photovoltaic induced voltage level. In sensors using the arrays as discussed above a small loss of the desired signal may result due to geometrical projection effects of the desired fringe motion relative to the AIDC grating vector direction.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention randomly spaced AIDC electrodes may be used in a photo EMF sensor where the electrodes comprise Ti Au material. In such a sensor the aperiodic electrode spacing would tend to spatially average out the nonadaptive component while the sue of Ti Au for the electrodes would provide increased sensitivity for the sensor.

From the foregoing description it will be apparent that the present invention has a number of advantages some of which have been described herein and others of which are inherent in the embodiments of the invention described herein. Also it will be understood that modifications can be made to the apparatus and method described above without departing from the teachings of subject matter described herein. As such the invention is not to be limited to the described embodiments except as required by the appended claims.

In broad overview this description has disclosed a method and apparatus for a photoinduced electromotive force sensor. The sensor has an active substrate formed of a semi insulating photoconductor with sufficient carrier trap density to form an effective charge grating and pairs of electrodes disposed on the active substrate where the sensor is configured to reduce the photovoltaic effect caused by the incident light in the vicinity of the electrodes. The shape or composition of the electrodes may be selected to reduce the photovoltaic effect or the electrodes may be disposed on the substrate to average out the photovoltaic effect arising from each one of the electrodes.

