---

title: Automatic role determination for search configuration
abstract: A mechanism for automatically laying out a search topology and assisting administration of the system in a shared services environment is provided. A search configuration wizard user interface may prompt an administrator to specify a number of items to be supported by the search system on initial search application topology configuration, as well as selections between high-availability or high throughput options. A topology manager managing the search configuration wizard may determine how many servers are needed upon receiving configuration options and create specific search components on available servers to optimize query and crawl performance for the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458159&OS=08458159&RS=08458159
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08458159
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100505
---
Shared web services are increasingly becoming popular. Some shared web services provide an integrated suite of server capabilities that can help improve organizational effectiveness by enabling comprehensive content management and enterprise search accelerating shared business processes and facilitating information sharing across boundaries for enhanced business insight. Additionally the collaboration and content management servers may provide information technology professionals and developers with a platform and tools they may need for server administration application extensibility and interoperability.

In some shared services the infrastructure may include deployment of search services to multiple server farms. However deployment and management of shared services and the provider topology may be difficult to administer. The challenge may become even more complex with the partitioning of the search index to support higher scaling.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to a mechanism for automatically laying out a search topology and assisting administration of the system. According to some embodiments a search configuration wizard user interface may prompt an administrator to specify a number of items to be supported by the search system on initial search application topology configuration as well as selections between high availability or high throughput options. A topology manager managing the search configuration wizard may determine how many servers are needed upon receiving configuration options and create specific search components on available servers to optimize query and crawl performance for the system.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above a search topology may be automatically laid out and administration of a shared services system assisted by a topology manager controlled search configuration wizard on initial search application topology configuration. The search configuration wizard user interface may prompt an administrator to specify a number of items to be supported by the search system and selections between high availability or high throughput options. The topology manager may determine how many servers are needed and identify them upon receiving configuration options. The topology manager may further create specific search components on available servers to optimize query and crawl performance for the system. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for managing computer and network operations which may include searches. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single server and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

Fueled by the explosive growth of e commerce web analytics is increasingly adopted by businesses and other organizations. Web Analytics tracks user actions. Dynamic Search Configuration uses system monitoring which includes data derived from serving user requests as well as data gathered from providing the search service to make decisions.

For delivering actionable intelligence to its users shared service systems may adopt a coherent strategy addressing business and technological needs and improving Internet extranet and intranet based sites and solutions. One aspect of providing shared services to users is configuring server farms for efficient search operations within the information technology infrastructure of departments and across entire enterprises.

While a shared services system such as the example one illustrated in diagram may provide a variety of services properties and configuration of the components are focused on search operations for relevancy purposes. A shared services system may include a plurality of servers and other devices such as data stores routing devices balancing devices and the like. Different aspects of the provided services may be managed by different servers. For example server and or servers may be responsible for search operations. Search operations may include crawling and searching resources of the system such as client devices data sources servers and . Some of the resources may be reachable through a single network e.g. while others may be reachable over a plurality of networks e.g. and . In a typical operation a user may submit a search request to server or through their client device . Server s and or may host a search application which may perform various tasks such as crawling indexing querying at search time ranking search results and providing the search results for presentation to client device .

Search operations may be optimized for a search application hosted on server and or on other servers by automatically laying out a search topology at setup time through a search configuration wizard and determining roles for system resources. Various servers within the system may have different roles. For example web servers may maintain searchable logs that may be valuable for business intelligence e.g. usage access statistics etc. analytics servers may maintain analytics data and reports database servers may provide access to raw data at managed data sources etc. Each of the servers in the system may be associated with varying amounts and different complexities of data. For example searching simple format logs may consume fewer system resources computing power memory compared to multi dimensional and potentially large reports maintained by analytics servers. Each server may also be associated with different amount of data. Thus when configuring search operations for a system server and or may take into account these and other characteristics of the servers and other resources in the system. Additionally server and or may configure search topology based on expected search parameters such as high throughput vs. high availability choices.

The example system in has been described with specific servers client devices device roles and interactions. Embodiments are not limited to systems according to these example configurations. Search configuration for a networked system may be implemented in configurations employing fewer or additional components and performing other tasks. Furthermore specific protocols and or interfaces may be implemented in a similar manner using the principles described herein.

Search application data repository may store data associated with search operations as well as the primitives. Search configuration wizard may provide a search configuration user interface at initial setup for an administrator to specify parameters for laying out search topology. Topology manager may subsequently configure servers and applications in the system based on administrator inputs and update the configuration dynamically as the system components and search needs of users change.

Embodiments are not limited to the example components and interactions discussed above. Search topology configuration may be implemented with other components and interactions in a similar manner using the principles described herein.

Search configuration wizard user interface enables administrators specify select parameters driving a size and structure of the search system topology before auto configuring components of the system. The parameters may include size of documents to be searched . This parameter may be specified through a text box or by selection among predefined ranges . A number and sizes of the displayed ranges may also be dynamically determined based on system characteristics e.g. sizes and number of available documents in the system .

Additional parameters may include topology choices for the number of servers needed e.g. available servers . For example the user may be enabled to input a number of servers to be configured to search topology or indicate their choice by selecting among a list of available servers. The search configuration wizard may suggest an optimal number of application and database servers for the search application based on internal lookup tables and or logic for best configurations of the components and databases. Moreover the user interface may enable an administrator to define servers for specific roles such as database servers .

Choices such as high throughput and high availability options may also be selectable. For example a checkbox representing a high throughput need may be provided. When selected this input may modify the suggested topology by adding additional mirrored query components on new servers to support high throughput requirements. Selection of a checkbox representing a high availability need may result in modification of the suggested topology by adding additional failover query components on existing servers which serve queries when an identical active query component no longer functions.

Upon completion of inputs through the user interface the search configuration wizard may enable the administrator to confirm and modify if desired the proposed valid search configuration before changing to the next view step of the wizard. After confirmation the administration object model may create the confirmed topology for the search application.

The example user interface of includes specific elements such as the document size ranges. Embodiments are not limited to systems according to these example configurations. Automatic role determining and search configuration for networked systems may be implemented with other user interfaces employing additional or fewer configuration elements in a similar manner using the principles described herein.

During regular operations client applications hosted on any of the client devices may submit search requests to a search engine on the client device on the servers or on individual server . The search engine may crawl available networked resources retrieve data from data sources associated with crawled documents and index and rank based on collected information. The search topology for may be configured initially through a search configuration wizard as discussed previously. The service may retrieve relevant data from data store s directly or through database server and provide the ranked search results to the user s through client devices .

Network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. Network s may include secure networks such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. Network s may also coordinate communication over other networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular networks. Furthermore network s may include short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth or similar ones. Network s provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed to implement a framework for search topology configuration. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

Search capable application may be any application that is capable of performing search through search engine on other applications data in an enterprise based or cloud based networked environment from computing device . Search engine may perform searches index and rank results. Topology manager may manage initial topology layout through a search configuration wizard and update the topology based on changes to the system as discussed previously. Application and topology manager may be separate applications or an integral component of a hosted service. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computing device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wired or wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link a short range network and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications other web servers and comparable devices. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process begins with operation where a topology manager may determine available resources in the system such as various servers applications data sources and so on. At operation a configuration user interface may be provided to an administrator for making selections and providing input on search topology parameters such as expected document size ranges servers applications to be used and comparable ones. At operation a best guess configuration may be determined based on administrator inputs and selections for laying out the topology of servers and applications of the system for efficient search operations. The determined topology may be laid out at operation and dynamically updated at operation as system characteristics such as servers applications documents and search needs change.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Automated role determination and search topology configuration may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

