---

title: Macrocyclic cyanine and indocyanine bioconjugates provide improved biomedical applications
abstract: The sensitivity and specificity of the optical modality can be enhanced by the use of highly absorbing compounds as contrast agents. Novel macrocyclic cyanine and indocyanine bioconjugates that absorb and emit light in the near infrared region of electromagnetic spectrum are disclosed. These compounds are especially useful for endoscopic, localized photoacoustic, and sonofluorescence imaging, detection and therapy of tumors and other abnormalities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08318133&OS=08318133&RS=08318133
owner: Washington University in St. Louis
number: 08318133
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101102
---
This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 474 453 filed May 31 2003 which priority is claimed.

This invention was made with government support under grant number BES 01194889 NSF . The federal government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to improved cyanine and indocyanine bioconjugates and particularly to improved site specific is delivery for optical tomographic endoscopic photoacoustic sonofluorescent laser assisted guided surgery and therapeutic purposes.

Several dyes including derivatives of fluorescein and carbocyanine that emit light in the visible and near infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum have in the past and are currently being used for various biomedical applications due to their bioconnpatibility high molar absorptivity or high fluorescence quantum yields. This high sensitivity parallels that of nuclear medicine and permits visualization of organs and tissues without the negative effect of ionizing radiation. Most dyes lack specificity for particular organs or tissues and hence these dyes must be attached to bioactive carriers such as proteins peptides carbohydrates and the like to deliver the dyes to specific regions in the body. Several studies on the use of near infrared dyes and dye biomolecule conjugates have been published Patonay et al. 1991 Slavik 1994 Brinkley 1993 Lee and Woo U.S. Pat. No. 5 453 505 Hohenschuh WO 98 48846 Turner et al. WO 98 22146 Licha et al. WO 96 17628 and Snow et al. WO 98 48838 . Of particular interest is the targeting of tumor cells with antibodies or other large protein carriers as delivery vehicles Becker et al. 1999 . Such an approach has been widely used in nuclear medical applications and the major advantage is the retention of a carrier s tissue specificity since the molecular volume of the dye is substantially smaller than the carrier. However this approach does have some serious limitations in that the diffusion of high molecular weight bioconjugates to tumor cells is highly unfavorable and is further complicated by the net positive pressure in solid tumors Jain 1994 . Furthermore many dyes in general and cyanine dyes in particular tend to form aggregates in aqueous media that lead to fluorescence quenching.

Therefore to solve these problems U.S. Pat. No. 6 217 848 disclosed dye peptide conjugates including several cyanine dyes with a variety of bis and tetrakis carboxylic acid homologues. The small size of the compounds allowed more favorable delivery to tumor cells as compared to larger molecular weight imaging agents.

A typical example of the cyanine compounds used to make these conjugates is indoacyanine green ICG which absorbs and emits light in the near infrared region NIR wavelengths.

However many drawbacks have been encountered in the use of these recently developed compounds. First it is difficult to alter their spectral properties to coincide with a desired biological or chemical event thereby limiting the scope of their functionality as imaging agents. For example the fluorescence emission and fluorescence lifetime of ICG in the tissue itself do not significantly change in situ and hence the ICG derivatives cannot be used effectively as a reporter molecules to monitor the functional events such as enzyme activity and gene expression as they occur. To circumvent this problem recent studies have used a pro drug approach where the fluorescence signal from a pre quenched carbocyanine compound is detected in response to a diagnostic biological event such as increased local acidity in solid tumors or high expression of some proteases in metastatic tumors Bremer C. et al. Imaging of differential protease expression in breast cancers for detection of aggressive tumor phenotypes 222 814 818 2002 Weissleder R. A clearer vision for in vivo imaging 19 316 317 2001 .

Unfortunately this pro drug approach relies on the stacking of dyes on a polymer backbone to achieve some level of decrease in fluorescence emission. In addition the large size of the copolymer probe conjugate used precludes rapid delivery of the probe to solid tumors. Moreover the delivery method is nonspecific and the major photophysical feature of the dye that was affected was a reduction in the fluorescence emission of the polymeric material rather than the tissue itself. Thus availability of intramolecularly quenched carbocyanine compounds coupled with specific delivery to target tissue for functional imaging events such as enzyme activity and gene expression remain an unmet need.

Another problem with the recent carbocyanine dye bioconjugates is in vivo instability. That is the bioactive carrier molecule such as a peptide is attached to the dye via its N terminus where the peptide is susceptible to degradation by exopeptidases via the C terminus.

Also the routine use of cyanine bioconjugate compounds in clinical settings as imaging agents is inhibited by the potential for hepatobilliary toxicity resulting from the rapid clearance of these dyes by the liver. This is associated with the tendency of carbocyanine compounds to form aggregates in solution which could be taken up by Kupffer cells in the liver. Various attempts to obviate this problem have not been very successful. Typically hydrophilic peptides polyethyleneglycol or oligosaccharide conjugates have been used but these resulted in excessively long circulating products that are eventually cleared by the liver.

It would be a welcomed advancement in the industry to overcome the aforesaid drawbacks of the prior art.

The publications and other materials used herein to support the background of the invention or provide additional details respecting the practice are incorporated by reference and for convenience are respectively listed in the appended List of Reference.

In one principal aspect of the present invention there is improved ease with which to alter the spectral properties of cyanine bioconjugates as a function of particular biological or chemical events.

In another principal aspect of the invention there is an improvement in the delivery of the bioconjugates to targeted tumors or other biomasses.

Also an unexpected aspect of this invention is that the macrocyclic bioconjugates have improved stability as far example against degradation by exopeptidases while retaining high receptor binding affinity of peptides even though carboxyl alcoholic or otherwise terminal substituents are not free.

Also although not completely understood it is believed that a further aspect of the invention may allow solvent induced aggregation in solution to be disrupted and allow a unique mechanism for the bioconjugates to more rapidly clear the liver.

These aspects of the invention and others which will become more apparent from the ensuing Summary Detailed Description Figures and Examples are made possible by intramolecularly cross linked carbocyanine cyanine or indocyanine bioconjugates including cross linked bioconjugates of fluorescein porphyrin squarine and their derivatives useful as imaging agents hereinafter referred to as macrocyclic bioconjugates having Formulas 1 18 below 

The present invention comprises novel macrocyclic bioconjugate imaging agents among which are those defined as Formula 1 

The present invention further comprises novel macrocyclic bioconjugate compounds defined as Formula 3 

The present invention also comprises novel double cross linked macrocyclic bioconjugate compounds of Formula 7 

The present invention also comprises novel double cross linked macrocyclic bioconjugate compounds of Formula 8 

The compounds of this invention allow the emission of light to be quenched by the presence of analytes including but not limited to metal ions pathogens bacteria or other organic molecules.

The compounds of the present invention may be employed to quench the emission of light prior to the occurrence of a biological event is such as enzymatic cleavage of diagnostic bonds or sequestering into membranes or host molecules.

The structural framework of certain of the compounds of this invention may serve as a scaffold to develop related compounds that have different activity from the parent compounds.

The fluorescence lifetime properties of the compounds of this invention are changed by the macrocyclization synthesis.

The macrocyclic carbocyanine compounds of the present invention can be utilized in the treatment of pathologic conditions by phototherapy. That is the compound is activated by light through cleavage of labile bonds or generation of free radicals that are cytotoxic to a target microenvironment.

These macrocyclic bioconjugates have been found to exude a robust nature which enables them to have an improved delivery which is more specific to targeted tissue. The robust nature my stem from the rigid cross links in the chromophore core i.e. the intramolecular cyclization. The topology of the molecules makes it possible to alter the spectral properties of the compounds by a choice of the ring size. In addition the linker group from one segment of the molecule to another can beneficially comprise a bioactive segment capable of directing the molecules to their targets.

The compounds described in this invention are stable against exopeptidase degradation inspite of the head to tail macrocyclization formulations. Macrocyclization facilitates elucidation of the bioactive conformations of linear peptides which is useful to optimize the affinity of the compounds for their targets. Compounds that can minimize peptide degradation by exopeptidase and also retain the affinity of the carrier to its receptor is highly unusual.

The present carbocyanine macrocytic bioconjugates may be inherently excreted by organs other than the liver such as urinal excretion through the kidneys. But this is not completely understood. The bioconjugates of this invention use hydrophilic units as an integral part of the cyclic chain which may disrupt solvent induced aggregation in solution.

Herein cyclization has been successfully used as a strategy to improve the binding affinities selectivities in vivo stability and pharmacokinetics of bioactive molecules. The conformational restriction conferred by cyclization facilitates the conformational analysis and bioactive conformation elucidation. In the present invention the chromophore is flanked by bioactive or chemically useful substituents to achieve the desired molecular or cellular event. Thus we have disclosed molecular beacons that combine both cyclic and fluorescent features which offer enormous advantages over existing optical probes.

The molecules disclosed can be used in a variety of applications including detecting and imaging normal and pathophysiologic conditions monitoring disease status organ functions and the efficacy of drugs performing in vivo ex vivo and in vitro biological and chemical measurements detecting microorganisms and pathogens and monitoring or detecting environment pollutants.

The novel bioconjugate compounds of the present invention comprise compounds of Formulas 1 to 18 and can be prepared from any conventional method. Preferably one integrates peptide and other bioactive molecules into a fluorescent chromophore core.

The so called macrocyclization or intramolecular linking and cross linking alters the ring size of molecules to modify the biological characteristics of the bioconjugates such as changing these bioactive compounds from agonist to antagonist after binding to target a receptor. Thus changing the ring size serves as an avenue to alter the agonist or antagonist properties of compounds without drastically changing its structural framework.

Although it is not completely understood it is believed that increasing the molecular volume transforms the excretion pathway from the size dependent glomerular filtration mechanism of the kidneys to tubular filtration which ensures more rapid elimination of the compound from blood plasma. Consequently imaging can be performed more rapidly after injection of the imaging agent because the target tissue to blood ratio of the macrocyclic compounds can be highly concentrated within hours of post injection.

Macrocyclic compounds also have enhanced affinity to different subtypes of target receptors. Optimizing the selectivity of such compounds to the target receptor will minimize the negative effects of the compounds on normal tissue.

As previously stated changing the macrocyclic ring size can alter the spectral properties of the macrocyclic compounds. This is particularly important for the simultaneous monitoring of two or more physiological processes simultaneously without using widely different compounds. The spatial distribution of the functional groups within the bioconjugate allows those groups to interact with each other thereby making it possible to completely quench the fluorescence emission by incorporating in quenchers in shorter ring structures such as the addition of metal chelates possessing d orbital lone pair electrons. This characteristic makes these compounds ideally suited for in vivo and in vitro functional imaging. Particularly cleavage of one or more amide bonds within the cyclic ring will transform the cyclic chain into a linear analogue that minimizes spatial interaction between the quencher and the chromophore thereby facilitating the detection of fluorescence emission. The macrocyclic bioconjugate then becomes a highly sensitive probe for detecting the in vivo or in vitro expression of diagnostic enzymes.

The macrocyclic compounds of the present invention are characterized by a fluorescence lifetime altered by the macrocyclization facilitating the use of the macrocyclic compounds as highly sensitive molecular probes in fluorescence lifetime imaging.

The macrocyclic compounds are useful in various biomedical applications including but not limited to tomographic imaging of organs monitoring of organ functions coronary angiography fluorescence endoscopy detection imaging and treatment of pathologic conditions laser guided surgery photoacoustic and sonofluorescence methods and the like. Specific embodiments to accomplish some of the aforementioned biomedical applications are given below.

For example the compounds of the invention are useful in optical tomographic endoscopic photoacoustic and sonofluoresence detection and treatment of tumors and other pathologic conditions. They can be employed for localized therapy and imaging.

The compounds when targeting tumors and other abnormalities can be detected by monitoring the blood clearance profile of the compounds. Alternatively the compounds serve during laser assisted guided surgery to detect micrometastases of tumors upon laparoscopy. In yet another aspect of the invention the bioconjugates of this invention are contrast imaging agents in the diagnosis of atherosclerotic plaques and blood clots or for monitoring gene or protein expressions or for phototherapy and multimodal imaging or nuclear magnetic resonance and ultrasound imaging.

In a preferred embodiment the compounds according to the present invention have the general Formula 1 wherein a1 and b1 vary independently from 0 to 3 Wand Xare independently selected from the group consisting of NR CCH C CH OH C CH COH C CH NH and C CH NRR Yand Zare independently selected from the group consisting of H CRR CH COH CH CH O CH CH COH CH N R CH COH and CH N R CH CH O CH CH COH C1 C10 thioalkyl C1 C10 aminoalkyl C1 C10 hydroxyalkyl CH CONH Bm CH CH O CH CH CONH Bm CH SO CH OPO monosaccharides disaccharides metal chelating agents peptides proteins radioactive and non radioactive metal complexes the subscripts a and c vary independently from 1 to 3 and b varies from 1 to 50.

In another preferred embodiment the compounds according to the present invention have the general Formula 2 wherein a2 and b2 vary independently from 0 to 3 Wand Xare independently selected from the group consisting of C CH C CH OH CH C CH OH C CH COH CH C CH COH C CH CONHR CH C CH CONHR C CH NH CH C CH NH C CH NRR CH C CH NRR O NR and S Yand Zare independently selected from the group consisting of C CH C CH OH C CH OR C CH COH C CH COR C CH CONHR C CH NH C CH NRR C CH OH CH CO C CH OR CH O C CH COR CH NH C CH CONHR C CH NH C CH NRR C1 C5 alkyl C1 C10 aryl C1 C10 alkoxyl C1 C6 carboxyl C1 C7 aminoalkyl CH NR CH CH O CH CH O CH OC CH CH O CH CH CO CH CH O CH CH NR CH NHCO Bm CH CH O CH CH NRCO Bm CH N R CH CH O CH CH CONR Bm monosaccharides disaccharides metal chelating agents peptides proteins radioactive and non radioactive metal complexes the subscripts a and c vary independently from 1 to 3 and b varies from 1 to 50.

In another preferred embodiment the compounds according to the present invention have the general Formula 3 wherein a3 and b3 vary is independently from 0 to 3 Wand Xare independently selected from the group consisting of NR CCH C CH OH C CH COH C CH NH and C CH NRR Yand Zare independently selected from the group consisting of H CRR CH COH CH CH O CH CH COH CH N R CH COH and CH N R CH CH O CH CH COH C1 C10 thioalkyl C1 C10 aminoalkyl C1 C10 hydroxyalkyl CH CONH Bm CH CH O CH CH CONH Bm CH SO CH OPO monosaccharides disaccharides metal chelating agents peptides proteins radioactive and non radioactive metal complexes the subscripts a and c vary independently from 1 to 3 and b varies from 1 to 50.

In another preferred embodiment the compounds according to the present invention have the general Formula 4 wherein a4 and b4 vary independently from 0 to 3 Wand Xare independently selected from the group consisting of C CH C CH OH CH C CH OH C CH COH CH C CH COH C CH CONHR CH C CH CONHR C CH NH CH C CH NH C CH NRR CH C CH NRR O NR and S Yand Zare independently selected from the group consisting of C CH C CH OH C CH OR C CH COH C CH COR C CH CONHR C CH NH C CH NRR C CH OH CH CO C CH OR CH O C CH COR CH NH C CH CONHR C CH NH C CH NRR C1 C5 alkyl C1 C10 aryl C1 C10 alkoxyl C1 C6 carboxyl C1 C7 aminoalkyl CH NR CH CH O CH CH O CH CO CH CH O CH CH CO CH CH O CH CH NR CH NHCO Bm CH CH O CH CH NRCO Bm CH N R CH CH O CH CH CONR Bm monosaccharides disaccharides metal chelating agents peptides proteins radioactive and non radioactive metal complexes the subscripts a and c vary independently from 1 to 3 and b varies from 1 to 50.

In particularly preferred embodiment of the invention the bioconjugates according to Formulas 1 2 3 and 4 have a1 and a2 b1 and b2 being 3 and Rto Rand those defined in the same manner as Rand Rbeing hydrogen and where Bm is selected from RGD peptide derivatives i.e. those having arginine glycine and aspartic acid peptide sequence.

In a preferred embodiment the methods of the invention utilize light of a wavelength in the region of 350 1300 nm.

In a preferred embodiment a therapeutic procedure comprises attaching a porphyrin to a bioconjugate and using it for photodynamic therapy or shining light of a specific wavelength on the dipeptide conjugate of this invention to achieve a photodynamic therapy effect.

The bioconjugates of the invention can be formulated into diagnostic compositions for enteral or parenteral administration. These compositions contain an effective amount of the compound along with conventional pharmaceutical carriers and excipients appropriate for the type of administration contemplated. For example parenteral formulations advantageously contain a sterile aqueous solution or suspension of compounds according to this invention. Parenteral compositions may be injected directly or mixed with a large volume parenteral composition for systemic administration. Such parenteral solutions also may contain pharmaceutically acceptable buffers and optionally electrolytes such as sodium chloride. Compositions for enteral administration may vary widely as is well known in the art. In general such formulations are liquids which include an effective amount of the compound in aqueous solution or suspension. Such enteral compositions may optionally include buffers surfactants thixotropic agents and the like. Compositions for oral administration may also contain flavoring agents and other ingredients for enhancing their organoleptic qualities.

Diagnostic compositions continuing compounds of this invention are administered in doses effective to achieve the desired enhancement. Such doses may vary widely depending upon the particular compound employed the organs or tissues which are the subject of the imaging procedure the imaging equipment being used and the like. The diagnostic compositions of the invention are used in the conventional manner. The compositions may be administered to a patient typically a warm blooded animal either systemically or locally to the organ or tissue to be imaged and the patient then subjected to the imaging procedure. Combinations of the above described compounds compositions and uses also represent important approaches to the synthesis and use of carbocyanine compounds with a variety of photophysical and chemical properties for the biomedical advancements of this invention.

The present invention is further detailed in the following Examples which are offered by way of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any manner.

A mixture of 1 1 2 trimethyl 1H benz e indole 10.0 g 47.8 mmol and 3 bromopropanoic acid 7.3 g 47.8 mmol in 1 2 dichlorobenzene 50 mL was heated with stirring at 110 C. for 18 h. After the resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature the precipitated was collected by filtration triturated with DCM thoroughly and dried under vacuum to afford 15.2 g of light brown powder 88 . ESI MS observed for MH 281.31.

A solution of AcO 1.20 g 11.75 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added drop wise to a cooled stirring suspension of glutaconaldehyde dianilide monohydrochloride 2.84 g 9.97 mmol and DIEA 2.60 g 20.11 mmol in DCM 20 mL . The resulting clear solution was stirred for another 1 h and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in methanol 5.0 mL was added drop wise to a refluxing solution of 1 10.0 g 27.62 mmol and sodium acetate 3.9 g 47.54 mmol in methanol 50 mL . The mixture was refluxed for another 16 h and concentrated. The residue was washed with ethyl acetate 5 HCl solution and ethyl acetate. The crude product was further purified by re crystallization from acetonitrile water 3 7 to afford 4.3 g 61 . ESI MS observed for MH 625.34.

To a stirred and cooled solution of 1 7.2 g 19.87 mmol di tertbutyl iminodiacetate 6.0 g 24.46 mmol and HOBT 2.68 g 19.85 mmol in DMF was added EDCI 4.5 g 23.47 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 3 h and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DCM 50 mL washed with 5 HCl solution 5 NaHCO brine and dried over NaSO. Purification by flash column chromatography afforded 3 7.0 g 60 .

A solution of AcO 67 mg in DCM 5 mL was added drop wise to a cooled stirring suspension of glutaconaldehyde dianilide monohydrochloride 60 mg 0.21 mmol and TEA 67 mg 0.66 mmol in DCM 5 mL stirred for 10 min. To the resulting clear solution was added a solution of 3 300 mg 0.51 mmol and TEA 52 mg in DCM 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 72 h washed with 5 HCl solution 5 NaHCOsolution and brine filtered and concentrated. The crude product was further purified by flash column chromatography to afford the desired product 4 158 mg 65 . ESI MS observed for MH 1079.49.

A solution of benzoyl chloride 17 mg 0.12 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added drop wise to a cooled stirring suspension of glutaconaldehyde dianilide monohydrochloride 28 mg 0.10 mmol and DIEA 30 mg 0.3 mmol in DCM 5 mL . The resulting clear solution was stirred for another 2 h and was added dropwise into a solution of 1 30 mg 0.083 mmol . The mixture was stirred for overnight followed by adding 3 70.7 mg 0.12 mmol . The mixture was refluxed for 12 h washed with 5 HCl solution HO and brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography afforded 6 32.6 mg 35 . ES MS MH 852.41.

Cypate3 was similarly prepared from malconaldehyde dianil monohydrochloride by using the procedure described above for 2. The crude product was further purified by re crystallization with 30 aqueous acetonitrile and dried to afford 3.2 g 60 . Observed for MH 599.32.

A mixture of HC OCH 74.1 mg and 1 362.0 mg 1.0 mmol 2 6 lutidine 215 mg in ethanol 20 mL was heated with stirring at 100 C. for 3 h. The solvent was removed by evaporation and washed with ether and 10 hydrochloric acid solution and the crude product was re crystallized from CHCN HO to afford 8 140 mg 43 . Observed for MH 573.41.

Fmoc Lys was attached to Rink amide resin 60 mg 0.0366 mmol and the Fmoc was deprotected by piperidine in DMF 20 . A solution of Cypate 129 mg 5 equiv HOBT 24.7 mg and DIC 11.5 mg 2.5 equiv in DMF 3 mL was added into the resin and swirled overnight. After filtered the resin was washed with DMF and DCM cleaved with TFA H2O 95 5 for 3 h filtered concentrated and dried. The crude product was dissolved in 20 mL DCM and added dropwise into a stirred solution of PyBOP 38 mg HOBT 9.9 mg and DIEA 18.9 mg in DCM DMF 195 5 200 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred overnight concentrated and purified by HPLC to afforded 1.5 mg of the desired product.

The resin bound tripeptide 10 was assembled from Fmoc Thr But Wang resin 0.61 mmol g 60 mg using the conventional Fmoc chemistry. The obtained resin was deblocked first by piperidine followed by the removal of the trityl group of Lys using a solution of TFA and TIS in DCM 1 5 94 . After the resin was washed thoroughly with a solution of DIEA in DMF 10 and DMF a mixture of 2 38.7 mg 0.055 mmol HOBT 14.8 mg 0.11 mmol and DIC 14 mg 0.11 mmol in DMF was added into the resin and the mixture was swirled overnight filtered washed with DMF DCM and cleaved with TFA HO 95 5 for 3 h concentrated and dried. Purification by HPLC afforded 11 2.3 mg .

The resin bound tetrapeptide was assembled from Fmoc Thr But Wang resin 60 mg 0.61 mmol g using conventional Fmoc chemistry. The Fmoc and Dde protecting groups were deprotected by piperidine DMF 20 and 2 hydrazine DMF respectively. After washed with DMF DIEA in DMF solution 10 CHOH and DMF the resin was swirled with a solution of 2 38.7 mg 0.055 mmol HOBT 14.8 mg 0.11 mmol and DIC 14 mg 0.11 mmol overnight. The resin was filtered and washed with DMF CHOH and DCM cleavaged with TFA HO 95 5 for 1 h. The product was obtained by HPLC purification 3.45 mg .

The title compound 14 was prepared similarly from Rink amide resin 250 mg 0.15 mmol using the procedure described for 13. 3.1 mg of 15 was obtained.

The title compound 15 was prepared similarly from Rink amide resin 0.25 mg 0.15 mmol using the procedure described for 13. 2.5 mg of 15 was obtained.

The resin bound bombesin analog i.e. Fmoc Gln Trt Trp Boc Val Ala Gly His Trt Leu Met Lys Boc Rink Amide resin was assembled from Rink amide resin 50 mg 0.031 mmol based on the conventional Fmoc chemistry. After the N terminal Fmoc was removed by piperidine in DMF 20 a solution of Cypate 211.5 mg 0.3 mmol HOBT 40.5 mg 0.30 mmol DIC 126.0 mg 0.1 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was swirled overnight at room temperature. The resin was washed with DMF and DCM cleaved with a TFA solution TFA Phenol thioanisole water v v 85 5 5 5 4 ml 2 h and concentrated. The product was precipitated in cooled tert butyl methyl ether to afford 2.8 mg of the crude intermediate 16.

A solution of 30 mg of 16 in DMF 5 mL was added dropwise into a solution of PyBOP 26.7 mg HOBT 7.0 mg and DIEA 25 mg in DCM 300 mL containing 10 ml of DMF. The mixture was stirred overnight concentrated and purified by HPLC to afforded 16 8 mg 27 . ESI MS 

The resin bound peptide i.e. Fmoc dF C Acm Y But dW Boc K Boc T But C Acm T But K Dde NH Resin were assembled starting from Rink amide resin 50 mg 0.061 mmol g based on the so conventional Fmoc chemistry. Typically each synthetic cycle consisted of i a 20 min deprotection with 20 piperidine in DMF ii coupling with a solution of Fmoc amino acid 2 equiv HBTU 2 equiv HOBT 2 equiv and DIEA 4 equiv in DMF 5 mL for 2 h. As monitored by the ninhydrin test single coupling of one hour was usually complete. After the sequence assembly was finished the linear peptide was treated with thallium III trifluoroacetate 2.0 equiv in DMF for 1.5 h to form the disulfide bond followed by Fmoc deprotection using 20 piperidine and washed with DMF and DCM and Dde deprotection using 2 hydrazine solution in DMF for 3 min 3 mLX3 and washed with DMF CHOH 2 DIEA in DMF and DMF. To the resulting resin bound peptide was added a solution of Cypate 22.0 mg 0.03 mmol HOBT 8.1 mg 0.06 mmol PyBOP 39.0 mg 0.075 mmol and DIEA 15.5 mg 0.12 mmol in DMF 2.5 mL . The resulting mixture was agitated for 5 h at room temperature. The resin was washed with DMF and DCM cleaved with a TFA solution TFA Phenol thioanisole water v v 85 5 5 5 4 ml and concentrated. The product was precipitated in cooled tert butyl methyl ether and purified by semi preparative HPLC to afford 2.8 mg in a yield of 4 . Analytical HPLC RT 17.13 min ESI MS observed for MH 883.5 and MH 1765.7.

Preparation of this title compound was performed from Fmoc Protected Octreotide peptide Wang resin by the same procedure described in Example 13 using Cypate3 7 instead of Cypate4 2 .

Preparation of this title compound was performed from Fmoc Protected Octreotide peptide Wang resin by the same procedure described in Example 13 using Cypate2 8 instead of Cypate4 2 .

The RGD peptide analog was assembled on 2 chlorotrityl chloride resin by conventional Fmoc chemistry. The conjugation and cyclization were performed using the similar procedure described in Example 12 using substituted cypate4 in the place of Cypate4 and the protected RGD peptide instead of bombesin peptide.

The title compounds were prepared using the similar procedure described in Example 12 using substituted cypate2 8 and cypate3 7 in the place of Cypate4 and the protected RGD peptide instead of bombesin peptide.

The title compounds were prepared using the similar procedure described in Example 17 using the protected RGD peptide instead of Octreotide peptide.

The title compounds were prepared using the similar procedure described in Example 18 using the protected RGD peptide in the place of Octreotide peptide.

The absorption and emission spectral properties of representative optical probes prepared are shown in . Stock solutions 1.0 mM of the probes were prepared by dissolving in anhydrous DMSO 99.99 . The spectral measurements were obtained by sequentially adding 0.5.about.2.0 L aliquots of the stock solutions via a micropipette into 3 mL of 25 aqueous DMSO solution in a quartz cuvette and stirring for equilibration prior to acquiring the spectra.

The binding affinity of somatostatin analogues was carried out using In DTPA octreotide in AR42J tumor cells according to previous reported methods with minor modifications Lewis J. S. Lewis M. R. Srinivansan A. Schmidt M. A. Wang J. and Anderson C. J. 1999 Comparison of Four Cu labeled Somatostatin Analogs in vitro and in a Tumor bearing Rat Model Evaluation of New Derivatives for PET Imaging and Targeted Radiotherapy. 42 1341 1347 . The AR42J rat pancreatic carcinoma cell line is known to express SSTR2 both in vitro and in vivo Rosewicz S. Vogt D. Harth N. Grund C. Franke W. W. Ruppert S. Schweitzer E. Riecken E. O. and Wiedenman B. 1992 An Amphicrine Pancreatic Cell Line AR42J Cells Combine Exocrine and Neuroendocrine Properties. 59 80 91 Christophe J. 1994 Pancreatic Tumoral Cell Line AR42J An Amphicrine Model. . . 266 29 G963 G971 . A preparation of cell membranes was made from AR42J cells by brief sonication in ice cold 50 mM Tris buffer containing 1.0 mM EGTA 0.5 mM PMSF 0.01 mg ml leupeptin 0.2 mg ml bacitracin 0.01 mg ml pepstatin. The suspension was centrifuged at 13 000 rpm and 4 C. for 10 min. and the pelleted membranes were re suspended in ice cold 50 mM Tris buffer. Assays were performed using Millipore FC96 plates and the Millipore Multiscreen system Bedford Mass. 1 . Triplicates of 50 l membranes 60 g well were incubated with 50 l radioligand 30 40 000 cpm and increasing concentration cold competitors in binding buffer 50 mM Tris HCl 5 mM MgCl 0.1 mg ml BSA in a total volume of 250 l per well at 37 C. for 2 h. Following incubation membranes were filtered on a vacuum manifold and washed twice with binding buffer. The filters containing membrane bound radioactivity were removed from the assay plate and counted using a Beckman 8000 automated well typed counter Fullerton Calif. . Specific binding was calculated by subtracting the non specifically bound radioactivity from that of total binding. The best fit ICvalues were calculated using PRISM Graphpad San Diego Calif. . Radiolabeling of DTPA octreotide with In was carried out in 0.1 M NaOAc pH 6.5 room temperature 30 min incubation specific activity of and radiochemical purity was confirmed greater than 98 by radio TLC. The specific activity of In DTPA octreotide ranged from 1200 Ci mmol to 1500 Ci mmol.

Analysis of the receptor binding assay of a representative somatostatin avid macrocyclic molecule compound 18 shows that it has an ICvalue of 8.17 nM relative to In DTPA octreotide demonstrating that the peptide s receptor binding affinity was retained in the nanomolar range.

The instrument consists of an excitation source and a charge coupled device CCD camera for signal detection. To image compounds such as compound 18 that absorb and emit radiation in the near infrared region a nominal 780 nm collimated solid state laser source was used to excite the compounds. The nominal 50 mW of incident power from the laser was reduced to about 20 mW at the output of the fiber optic bundle. A CCD camera 12 bit 1024 1024 pixel back illuminated was equipped with the appropriate interference filter to capture the emitted photons at 830 nm. Biodistribution of the dyes and receptor specific optical contrast agent in mice were performed by injecting 0.5 mL of a 1 M solution of the compound via the lateral tail vein of tumor CA20948 bearing mice. The precursor compound to macrocyclization compound 2 clears from the blood within 1 h postinjection and accumulates in the liver. In contrast injection of somatostatin avid optical probes in CA20948 tumor bearing mice preferentially accumulates in the tumor.

While the invention has been disclosed by reference to the details of preferred embodiments of the invention it is to be understood that the disclosure is intended in an illustrative rather than in a limiting sense as it is contemplated that modifications will readily occur to those skilled in the art within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims.

