---

title: System and method for authentication
abstract: A system and method for authentication including verifying a password is disclosed. In one embodiment, the authentication system includes a first storage unit to store an authentication sequence, a read-only memory unit to store an authentication algorithm, and a second storage unit. A microcontroller is coupled to the first storage unit, the read-only memory unit, and is configured to be coupled to and uncoupled from a host. The microcontroller is configured to execute the authentication algorithm to verify a password with the authentication sequence, and to send an access request to a web server via the host if the authentication algorithm has verified the password with the authentication sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234700&OS=08234700&RS=08234700
owner: Trek 2000 International Ltd.
number: 08234700
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20100910
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 197 843 entitled System and Method for Authentication filed on Aug. 25 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 797 736 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 502 005 entitled System and Method for Authentication filed on Jul. 19 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 434 251 which claims priority to PCT Application No. PCT SG02 00227 filed on Oct. 4 2002. The subject matter of the related applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to digital and software piracy. More particularly the present invention relates to a system and a method for authentication to prevent piracy in a digital system.

The piracy and illegal copying of software and other digital media has become extremely pervasive and currently results in billions of dollars in lost revenue for media and software owners worldwide. This problem is compounded by the advent of faster and more technologically advanced computers the development of inexpensive mass storage media e.g. CDs DVDs as well as copying devices such as CD writers which aid in various aspects of digital piracy.

Each technological breakthrough seemingly results in a new and better way to illegally copy intellectual property belonging to another. Examples of digital piracy include the copying of proprietary software to sell to others the installing of a single proprietary software package on several different systems placing a copy of proprietary software on the Internet or even downloading copyrighted images from the Internet.

While digital piracy is fairly common among many end users who have lawfully purchased the software large scale piracy typically occurs at a reseller level. For instance a reseller may duplicate and distribute multiple copies of a software program a digital audio file or a digital video file to different customers. These counterfeit versions are sometimes passed on to unsuspecting customers. Hardware distributors have been known to preload different systems using a single software package. In such instances customers are either not provided with original manuals diskettes and or compact discs CDs or are simply supplied with pirated copies of the same.

Numerous methods to combat the rampant problem of digital piracy have been devised. One of the methods is the use of trialware to restrict usage of a software product. Trialware may be implemented by either programming an expiration date or a usage counter into a software program. Such a scheme limits the use of a software product to a particular duration or a number of trial times respectively after which the protected application can no longer be launched. Users are then forced to either purchase the full version of the product or to quit using it altogether.

Hardware keys are another type of anti piracy device that is commonly used to prevent illegal use of software. Hardware keys are devices that are plugged into selected ports of a computer. Once the software is executed it then detects the presence of a hardware key in a similar manner to detecting other hardware devices such as a printer monitor or a mouse . Programming the software such that it only operates when an appropriate hardware key is attached prevents illegal use of the software. As the number of hardware keys distributed to end users corresponds to the number of seat licenses purchased the software will not work when installed on another system without the requisite hardware key.

Another common anti piracy technique is to require the entry of a certain registration key that is supplied by the software company before the software can be installed. Traditionally the registration keys are given only with the original software package although some are issued electronically. Unfortunately there is nothing to prevent the holder of the registration key from installing the software on multiple systems. In addition many of the electronic registration keys are based on the user s personal information such as the user s name therefore some hackers have developed programs to calculate registration keys for random names.

Unfortunately as with the use of the registration key all of the above anti piracy systems and many others are easily circumvented by hackers. A common method of combating these anti piracy techniques is to disassemble the coding of the Application Programming Interface API to assembly language and thereafter decompile the assembly language into programming language. With the knowledge gained from the program flow the hacker can easily re write the program or set certain conditions within the program itself such that it bypasses all the anti piracy authentication algorithms.

In view of the foregoing it is extremely desirable to have an anti piracy system that cannot be easily re programmed or bypassed by computer hackers and other digital pirates. It is also desirable to have an anti piracy system that can be integrated with existing mass storage devices.

The present invention fills these needs by providing a system and a method for authentication. It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a device or a method. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

In one embodiment of the present invention an authentication system to verify a password is provided. The authentication system includes a first storage unit to store an authentication sequence and a read only memory unit on which an authentication algorithm is programmed. The authentication sequence is preferably encrypted or hash coded. A microcontroller is coupled to the first storage unit the read only memory unit and a web server. A second storage unit coupled to the microcontroller is to store data from the web server. The microcontroller receives the password and executes the authentication algorithm to verify the password with the authentication sequence. Access to data on the second storage unit is permitted by the microcontroller only if the password has been verified. The data from the web server to be stored on the second storage unit is preferably encrypted. Alternatively the data may be hash coded.

The read only memory unit preferably includes a shutdown algorithm to shut down the host and the authentication system when a series of incorrect passwords is received by the microcontroller. The first storage unit the microcontroller the read only memory unit and the second storage unit are preferably implemented on a single chip. In addition it is also a preference to have the first storage unit and the read only memory unit incorporated into the microcontroller.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the authentication algorithm is implemented on either firmware or hardware. The first storage unit is preferably located within the read only memory unit and the authentication sequence is preferably hard coded into the authentication algorithm. Alternatively the first storage unit may be located within the second storage device.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method for authenticating a password is provided. The method begins by providing an authentication sequence and receiving the password. An authentication algorithm stored on a read only memory unit is executed to verify the password with the authentication sequence. Access to data on a web server or to a storage unit is permitted only if the password is verified. It is also preferable to shut down the entire system if a certain number of incorrect passwords are received. Data from the web server and that is to be stored in the storage unit is preferably encrypted or decrypted. Alternatively the data may be hash coded.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

A system and a method for authentication in a digital system are provided. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be understood however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

In other embodiments of the present invention ROM unit may be formed as part of microcontroller . Furthermore both first storage unit and second storage unit may be one of a number of mass storage devices including hard drives floppy disks or removable flash memory devices such as the ThumbDrive manufactured by Trek 2000. In addition the two storage units may be utilized in one physical structure to form a single mass storage device. The mass storage device may also be placed with microcontroller to form a single chip.

First storage unit stores an authentication sequence which is used to verify password . An authentication algorithm to authenticate password with authentication sequence is programmed onto ROM unit . In addition ROM unit preferably comprises a shutdown algorithm . Because these algorithms and other data are hard coded the contents of ROM unit cannot be decompiled or altered. Upon receiving password microcontroller loads and executes authentication algorithm to verify password with authentication sequence . Access to second storage unit is permitted only if password is verified.

Password may be entered by a user or a software program executed by host after receiving a query from microcontroller . Because authentication algorithm is hard coded onto ROM unit copying or decompiling and changing the software program resident on host does not breach the copy protection provided by the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that password may be a private string of characters a sequence of communication protocols or some other security protocol known only to an authorized user. In addition password and authentication sequence may form part of a biometric authentication process by using a user s fingerprints iris face or voice as authentication means.

Password may also be programmed into the software running on host and recognizable only by authentication algorithm and therefore not known to an end user. As described above authentication algorithm is preferably implemented on hardware or firmware such as ROM unit so that it is tamper resistant that is authentication algorithm will be either extremely difficult to reverse engineer or extract data from and therefore extremely difficult to bypass.

Shutdown algorithm is preferably implemented as a deterrent against brute force attacks by shutting down the entire system if a series of incorrect passwords is received by microcontroller . An authentication system programmer may define the maximum number of incorrect passwords allowed before the system shuts down. Shutdown algorithm may also be programmed to not accept any more password entries for a specified amount of time. By using shutdown algorithm trial and error methods used by brute force application programs to identify password would become an extremely tedious process for hackers. The algorithm would therefore deter potential hackers from even attempting to identify password .

Second storage unit is used to store programs and or files which are required for a program on host to run. Examples of such files include executable programs such as a software installer digital audio files digital video files image files text files and library files. Microcontroller allows access to second storage unit from host only if the correct password has been received by microcontroller .

Although illustrated in this embodiment as separate entities it should be evident to a person skilled in the art that microcontroller first storage unit ROM unit and second storage unit may be combined in a number of ways. For example microcontroller first storage unit ROM unit and second storage unit may be implemented on a single semiconductor chip. In an alternative embodiment microcontroller and ROM unit may be implemented on a chip that is separate from the storage units.

The present invention therefore has great flexibility of design that may easily be altered depending on a user s requirements. For example on one hand the use of multiple chips may allow different vendors to manufacture different parts of the authentication system. On the other hand fabricating the present invention onto fewer chips or a single chip may be less expensive and provide better performance. In addition if ROM unit and microcontroller are located on the same chip it may be more difficult to separate the ROM to read the data stored.

Upon receiving password microcontroller loads and executes authentication algorithm to verify password with authentication sequence . Access to second storage unit is permitted only if password is verified. Shutdown algorithm preferably shuts down the entire system if a series of wrong passwords is received by microcontroller . An authentication system programmer determines the maximum number of incorrect password attempts allowed.

Data to be read from or written onto second storage unit is first decrypted or encrypted respectively by encoder . Many different encryption schemes may be used by encoder including International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Data Encryption Standard DES encryption Triple Data Encryption Standard 3 DES encryption and Pretty Good Privacy PGP . By encrypting the contents of second storage unit a hacker will not be able to make sense of the contents even if he manages to read the contents by bypassing microcontroller for example by using a probe . After password has been authenticated a decoder not illustrated may be used to decrypt the contents of second storage unit .

Alternatively the data stored in second storage unit may be protected by hash coding. In addition authentication sequence is preferably encrypted or hashed as well to prevent hackers from unraveling authentication sequence . This may be accomplished without requiring an additional encoder if first storage unit is located within second storage unit .

As described in previous embodiments upon receiving password microcontroller loads and executes authentication algorithm to verify password with authentication sequence . Access to storage unit is permitted only if password is verified. Shutdown algorithm is preferably used to shut down the entire system if a series of incorrect passwords is received by microcontroller .

By hard coding authentication sequence directly into authentication algorithm possibly in multiple places modification of authentication sequence becomes substantially more difficult. In order to change a hard coded authentication sequence not only is recompilation necessary if using a compiled language but also sufficient understanding of the implementation is required to ensure that the change will not cause program failure. Such a measure makes it difficult for a hacker to re program authentication system .

Storage unit is made up of two types of data storage areas a public storage area and a private storage area . An authentication sequence which is used to verify password is stored in private storage area . An authentication algorithm to authenticate password is programmed onto ROM unit . ROM unit also contains a shutdown algorithm . Public storage area and private storage area may be created by under declaring the memory size available on storage unit .

Take for example a storage unit with physical addresses ranging from 000 to 1000. If only physical addresses 000 to 500 are declared to an operating system OS such as Windows on host the OS will not be aware of the presence of physical addresses 501 to 1000. Under such circumstances data stored within physical addresses 000 to 500 will be accessible to any user. This area is known as a public storage area. Conversely the undeclared physical addresses 501 to 1000 form a private storage area since these addresses are only be available to microcontroller and can only be accessed by an authorized user or software program.

Under non secure operating conditions any user may instruct host to read data from or write data onto public storage area . However if a user wishes to access private storage area the user or the software program must first enter password which is then sent to microcontroller for authentication. Upon receiving password microcontroller executes authentication algorithm to verify password with authentication sequence . Access to private storage area is permitted only if password is verified. Shutdown algorithm shuts down the entire system if a series of incorrect passwords is received by microcontroller .

If the password is verified in decision block access to a private area such as the second storage unit in the above described embodiments will be permitted in a block . The user is then able to read from or write onto the second storage unit which is preferably encrypted. If the password is not verified in decision block the user will be denied access to the second storage unit and method will end in a block . Alternatively if the password is incorrect the user may be given additional chances to enter the right password. However the system is preferably shut down if a series of incorrect passwords is received by the microcontroller.

To retrieve data from web server a password received by host is verified by authentication system . The password is typically entered by a user or by software in the host. If the password is entered by the user authentication system may also be configured to accept a biometrics password such as a fingerprint or a retina scan. If the verification is successful authentication system sends a request through host for access to web server . Upon receiving the request web server grants access to a web page having secured data. The data may be in the form of a music file or an online book or a software program. Because the authentication algorithm in authentication system is hard coded an unauthorized user will not be able to circumvent or change the verification scheme in authentication system and hence will be unable to access the data on web server .

In another embodiment of the present invention the password is embedded in the data to be retrieved from web server via the Internet. Host sends a request for the data to web server . Upon receiving the request web server sends the password embedded in the requested data to authentication system for verification. If the verification is successful authentication system allows host to access the data upon which the data may be displayed or executed. In a preferred embodiment the data from web server is encrypted. Decryption of the data is carried out in authentication system before use in host or storage in authentication system .

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention. Furthermore certain terminology has been used for the purposes of descriptive clarity and not to limit the present invention. The embodiments and preferred features described above should be considered exemplary with the invention being defined by the appended claims.

