---

title: Ferroelectric thin films
abstract: Ferroelectric structures and methods of making the structures are presented. The ferroelectric structures can include an electrode in contact with a ferroelectric thin film. The contact can be arranged so that a portion of the atoms of the ferroelectric thin film are in contact with at least a portion of the atoms of the electrode. The electrode can be made of metal, a metal alloy, or a semiconducting material. A second electrode can be used and placed in contact with the ferroelectric thin film. Methods of making and using the ferroelectric structures are also presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08022454&OS=08022454&RS=08022454
owner: The Trustees Of The University Of Pennsylvania
number: 08022454
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100616
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 774 793 filed Jul. 9 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 819 080 filed Jul. 7 2006 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government has certain rights in the invention under Office of Naval Research Grant Nos. N00014 00 1 0372 and N00014 01 1 0365 and NSF MRSEC Program Grant No. DMR00 79909.

The field relates to thin film ferroelectric nanostructures methods of making such structures and devices containing the same.

Ferroelectric materials contain permanent electric dipoles which can be aligned in order to store a permanent electric polarization within the material. Devices made with ferroelectric materials can be used as memory elements transducers and resonators. It is desirable to make devices smaller for instance by utilizing thin films. However ferroelectricity in thin films is affected by size. It was thought that there was a critical size below which stable ferroelectric behavior could not be maintained in thin films. For example researchers have found that BaTiOfilms with SrRuOelectrodes do not possess ferroelectricity where the ferroelectric film is less than 24 Angstroms thick and further state that ferroelectricity will be suppressed relative to bulk for films between 24 and 150 Angstroms thick J. Junquera and P. Ghosez London 422 506 2003 . As a result devices using thin films were thought to have a lower size limit below which useful ferroelectric structures could not be made. This lower limit on the size of useful ferroelectric structures creates a limit on the size of devices and systems incorporating such structures such as data storage systems. Accordingly it is desirable to be able to overcome this perceived lower limit to create even thinner ferroelectric structures.

An additional consideration is that ferroelectric thin films are known to experience fatigue meaning that after some number of switching cycles the polarization of the film can no longer be switched. Therefore while it is desirable to be able to overcome the perceived lower thickness limit of useful ferroelectric structures it is also desirable to inhibit fatigue in such structures and to provide high polarization.

The present invention provides ferroelectric structures comprising a first electrode. The first electrode comprises a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures comprising a first electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures comprising a first electrode comprising a first surface. The first surface has a periodic arrangement of atoms of the first electrode. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The first termination is formed of a periodic arrangement of at least one type of atom of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the first electrode is in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film.

The present invention also provides methods of forming a ferroelectric structure. The method comprises forming a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The first termination has a periodic arrangement of atoms of the ferroelectric thin film. The method further comprises forming a first electrode comprising a first surface having a periodic arrangement of atoms of the first electrode. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the first electrode is formed in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film.

The present invention also provides methods of increasing polarization of a ferroelectric material above a bulk value. The method comprises providing a ferroelectric material having a bulk polarization value and forming a ferroelectric thin film of the ferroelectric material the ferroelectric thin film having a first termination and a second termination. The method further comprises providing a first electrode having a first surface and providing a second electrode having a first surface. The method further comprises placing the first surface of the first electrode in epitaxial contact with the first termination and placing the first surface of the second electrode in epitaxial contact with the second termination.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures. The ferroelectric structure comprises a first electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a second electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode. The second termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the second electrode. The first electrode and second electrode comprise metal a metal alloy a semiconductor or a combination thereof.

As used herein the term perovskite means a structure with an empirical formula given by ABO where A is a cation a combination of cations or a combination of cations and vacancies B is a cation a combination of cations or a combination of cations and vacancies and O is Oxygen.

As used herein the term epitaxial means the growth on a crystalline substrate of a crystalline substance that copies the crystalline orientation of the crystalline substrate. The terms lattice matching registration and epitaxy are used synonymously herein unless otherwise indicated.

The present invention provides ferroelectric structures. Suitable ferroelectric structures comprise a first electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. Suitable ferroelectric structures further comprise a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode.

The ferroelectric structures can further comprise a second electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. At least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The second termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the second electrode. The first electrode and second electrode can comprise metal or a metal alloy. A suitable metal or metal alloy comprises platinum. Suitable ferroelectric films have a thickness in the range of from about 5 Angstroms to about 50 nanometers and can be as thin as approximately 4 Angstroms. Suitable ferroelectric thin films can further comprise a repeated pattern of layers of PbO and TiO. Suitable ferroelectric thin films can comprise a perovskite thin film.

The first termination can comprise PbO and the like. The second termination can comprise PbO and the like. The first termination can comprise TiOand the like. The second termination can comprise TiOand the like. The first and second terminations of the ferroelectric thin film can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The first electrode can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The second electrode can have a 100 crystallographic structure. A charge storage device can be provided comprising the described ferroelectric structure. A FERAM device can be provided comprising the ferroelectric structure.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures. Suitable ferroelectric structures comprises a first electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. Suitable ferroelectric structures can further comprise a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin films has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode.

The ferroelectric structure can further comprise a second electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. At least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The second termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the second electrode. The first electrode and second electrode can comprise metal or a metal alloy. The first electrode and the second electrode can comprise platinum. The ferroelectric thin film can have a thickness in the range of from about 5 Angstroms to about 50 nanometers and can be as thin as approximately 4 Angstroms. The ferroelectric thin film can further comprise a repeated pattern of layers of PbO and TiO. The ferroelectric thin film can be a perovskite thin film.

The first termination can comprise PbO. The second termination can comprise PbO. The first termination can comprise TiO. The second termination can comprise TiO. The first and second terminations of the ferroelectric thin film can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The first electrode can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The second electrode can have a 100 crystallographic structure. Charge storage devices can be provided comprising any one or more of the ferroelectric structures described herein. FERAM devices can be provided comprising one or more of the ferroelectric structures described herein.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures comprising a first electrode comprising a first surface. The first surface has a periodic arrangement of atoms of the first electrode. The ferroelectric structure further comprises a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The first termination is formed of a periodic arrangement of at least one type of atom of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the first electrode is in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film.

Suitable ferroelectric structures can further comprise a second electrode comprising a first surface the first surface having a periodic arrangement of atoms of the second electrode. The second termination can be formed of a periodic arrangement of at least one type of atom of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the second electrode can be in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first electrode and second electrode can comprise metal or a metal alloy. The first electrode and the second electrode can comprise platinum. The ferroelectric thin film can have a thickness in the range of from about 5 Angstroms to about 50 nanometers and can be as thin as approximately 4 Angstroms. The ferroelectric thin film can further comprise a repeated pattern of layers of PbO and TiO. The ferroelectric thin film can be a perovskite thin film.

The first termination can comprise PbO. The second termination can comprise PbO. The first termination can comprise TiO. The second termination can comprise TiO. The first and second terminations of the ferroelectric thin film can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The first electrode can have a 100 crystallographic orientation. The second electrode can have a 100 crystallographic structure. Charge storage devices can be provided comprising one or more of any of the ferroelectric structures described hererin. FERAM devices comprising one or more of the ferroelectric structures can also be provided according to the description provided herein.

The present invention also provides methods of forming a ferroelectric structure. These methods comprise forming a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The first termination has a periodic arrangement of atoms of the ferroelectric thin film. These methods further comprise forming a first electrode comprising a first surface having a periodic arrangement of atoms of the first electrode. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the first electrode is formed in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film.

The methods of forming a ferroelectric structure can further comprise forming a second electrode comprising a first surface having a periodic arrangement of atoms of the first electrode. The second termination has an arrangement of atoms of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the first surface of the second electrode can be formed in epitaxial contact with at least a portion of the periodic arrangement of atoms of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The methods can comprise forming the first electrode of a metal or metal alloy. The methods can comprise forming the first electrode of platinum. The methods can further comprise forming the second electrode of a metal of a metal alloy. The methods can comprise forming the second electrode of platinum. Forming the ferroelectric thin film can comprise forming a perovskite thin film.

The present invention also provides methods of increasing polarization of a ferroelectric material above a bulk value. These methods comprise providing a ferroelectric material having a bulk polarization value. These methods further comprise forming a ferroelectric thin film of the ferroelectric material the ferroelectric thin film having a first termination and a second termination. The methods further comprise providing a first electrode having a first surface and providing a second electrode having a first surface. The methods further comprises placing the first surface of the first electrode in epitaxial contact with the first termination and placing the first surface of the second electrode in epitaxial contact with the second termination.

The present invention also provides ferroelectric structures. The ferroelectric structures comprise a first electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. The ferroelectric structures further comprise a ferroelectric thin film comprising a first termination and a second termination. The ferroelectric structures further comprise a second electrode comprising a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. At least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film. At least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the second termination of the ferroelectric thin film. The first termination of the ferroelectric thin film has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the first electrode. The second termination of the ferroelectric thin films has a periodic atomic arrangement that approximately matches the periodic atomic arrangement of the first layer of the second electrode. The first electrode and second electrode suitably comprise metal a metal alloy a semiconductor or a combination thereof. A transducer can be provided comprising the ferroelectric structure.

Ferroelectric structures are utilized to create useful nanostructures and devices. illustrates an example of a ferroelectric structure. In a ferroelectric structure comprises a first electrode a ferroelectric thin film and a second electrode . As will be discussed in greater detail in what follows the first electrode and the second electrode can each comprise one or more layers of atoms. The first electrode can have a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement. As will be discussed in greater detail at least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode can be in contact with the ferroelectric thin film . For example the first electrode can be in epitaxial contact with the thin ferroelectric thin film . Similarly the second electrode can have a first layer having a periodic atomic arrangement and at least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode can be in contact with the ferroelectric thin film . For example the second electrode can be in epitaxial contact with the thin ferroelectric thin film . The first electrode can be epitaxially formed on the thin ferroelectric thin film such that a 100 crystallographic plane of the first electrode is in epitaxial contact with a 100 crystallographic plane of the ferroelectric thin film . The second electrode can be epitaxially formed on the ferroelectric thin film such that a 100 crystallographic plane of the second electrode is in epitaxial contact with a 100 crystallographic plane of the thin ferroelectric thin film .

Ferroelectric structures can be formed of various materials. For example the first electrode and the second electrode can be made of a metal metal alloy semiconductor or a combination thereof. One layer of the first electrode can be made of one material while additional layers of the electrode can be made from different materials. For instance the first electrode and the second electrode can comprise platinum or a platinum alloy. The first electrode the second electrode or both can comprise a semiconducting material. The particular material used to form first electrode and second electrode can be chosen to match a specific operating characteristic or device for instance by choosing a material with a desired conductivity and an appropriate average lattice parameter to approximately match an average lattice parameter of the ferroelectric thin film . The ferroelectric thin film can comprise a perovskite film a layer perovskite a Ruddleston Popper phase or other appropriate ferroelectric film. The ferroelectric thin film can have a thickness of 4 Angstroms or greater. In some situations the conventional lattice parameters can have specified rational or irrational ratios in order to achieve atomic matching. For example the conventional lattice parameter of Si is 5.43 Angstroms meaning that a single 100 plane contains Si atoms that form a square lattice with a repeat distance given by 5.43 sqrt 2 3.84 Angstroms. If Si were used as an electrode in a ferroelectric structure the 3.84 Angstrom distance is what can match the conventional lattice parameter of a perovskite thin film. In this example the materials used for the ferroelectric thin film and the electrode can be chosen such that the repeat distance of Si a and the repeat distance of the ferroelectric a are described by the relationship a a sqrt 2 .

The ferroelectric structure is formed such that at least a portion of the first layer of the first electrode as shown in is in contact with at least a portion of the first termination of the ferroelectric thin film as shown in either or . It is not necessary that every atom of the first layer of the first electrode be in contact with an atom of the first termination . Whether or not an atom of the first layer of the first electrode is in contact with an atom of the first termination will depend on the atomic composition of the first layer of the first electrode as well as the atomic composition of the first termination . Similarly the ferroelectric structure can be formed such that at least a portion of the first layer of the second electrode is in contact with at least a portion of the second termination of the ferroelectric film . It should be appreciated that if the first electrode or the second electrode comprise more than one layer of atoms it is not necessary for the atoms of the layers other than the first layer to be disposed in a periodic or crystalline pattern.

A specific example of an embodiment of the ferroelectric structure is provided hereinbelow. According to this example the ferroelectric thin film can comprise a perovskite thin film such as PbTiO PZT Pb ZrTi Ofor 0

Ferroelectric structures and can be formed using any of a variety of thin film processing technologies known in the art. For example a ferroelectric thin film can be formed by any known method of forming thin films. The ferroelectric thin film can be formed with a thickness tof about four 4 Angstroms or greater as illustrated in . The first electrode can be formed using pulsed laser deposition molecular beam epitaxy chemical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition wet chemical means annealing of nonepitaxial or partially epitaxial interfaces or any other means capable of producing a desired atomic arrangement of a first layer of the first electrode. The first electrode can be formed in its 100 crystallographic orientation or another crystallographic orientation. The second electrode can be formed in its 100 crystallographic orientation using any of the aforementioned processes or other known growth techniques The second electrode can be formed in its 100 crystallographic orientation or another crystallographic orientation. It is possible that the first layer of the first electrode can be formed using one technique in order to ensure lattice matching or registration with the ferroelectric thin film and then other techniques can be used to add additional layers to the first electrode. Similarly it is possible that the first layer of the second electrode can be formed using one technique in order to ensure lattice matching or registration with the ferroelectric thin film and then other techniques can be used to add additional layers to the second electrode.

Ferroelectric structures can be used in a variety of ways. For example ferroelectric structures such as that depicted in can be used as a charge storage device such as a capacitor. To do so a first electrical signal is applied to the first electrode . The application of the first signal to the first electrode creates an electric field in the thin ferroelectric oxide film which results in a stable ferroelectric phase of the thin ferroelectric oxide film . The resulting ferroelectric phase can be used to store information for example by representing a digital 0 or 1 i.e. on or off state. The ferroelectric phase of the thin ferroelectric oxide film can be erased or switched by applying an appropriate signal or signals to the first and second electrodes and . Control of the ferroelectric structure in this manner utilizes the ferroelectric structure as a capacitor or a nanocapacitor which can find use in devices such as a memory device. As used herein the term nanocapacitor is a capacitor have a characteristic dimension smaller than about 100 nm 1 000 Angstroms . The ferroelectric structures disclosed herein can be used for FERAM applications. Such structures can be written to and can be read destructively or non destructively. FERAM materials can be highly robust against signal loss or degradation and can endure 10 10cycles or more. Alternatively the ferroelectric structures disclosed herein can be used as transducers. Ferroelectric thin films are responsive to strain signals outputting an electrical signal when a strain is detected. Such behavior can be utilized to form useful transducers at small scale.

Referring to Table I the listed results indicate that bulk ferroelectric polarization can be stabilized in thin films below 24 Angstroms below 20 Angstroms below 15 Angstroms or even below 10 Angstroms with Pt or SrRuOelectrodes and that polarizations greater than the bulk value can be obtained with the ferroelectric structures disclosed herein. As illustrate an upward pointing polarization leads to an enhancement of the relative displacements at the bottom interface and a reduction at the top interface relative to the interior layers. This observation is in agreement with density functional theory DFT calculations with external fields. In going from m 2 to m 4 both P and c a decrease towards the bulk values as the surface to volume ratio decreases and the surface effect is averaged over more layers. Table I shows that a single unit cell m 1 has a stable polarization of 0.89 C m. The simulations indicate the absence of a critical thickness for ferroelectricity in PbTiOfilms with Pt electrodes.

In addition the screening of the electrodes is accompanied by the formation of unequal local dipoles at the two interfaces due to different chemical bonding. This is illustrated in . On the top interface shown in the Pt and Ti atoms lose charge which is redistributed between the atoms forming a Pt Ti alloy. On the bottom interface shown in where the Pt O distance is the shortest the Pt and O atoms lose charge the Pt from d2 orbitals and the O from porbitals while the Pt dand d orbitals gain charge. In electron loss is indicated by solid lines while electron gain is indicated by dotted lines. Similar behavior is observed at the ferroelectric electrode interfaces of AO terminated capacitors. Without being bound by any particular theory of operation it is believed that this inequivalent charge arrangement at the two ferroelectric metal interfaces is consistent with the different interface polarizations noted earlier.

Polarization stability in ferroelectric thin films. The stability of nanoscale ferroelectrics is governed by the extent to which the polarization charge at the surface can be compensated Uncompensated surface charge leads to a depolarizing field which suppresses the polarization with decreasing size. Ultrathin ferroelectric films can be passivated by applying metal electrodes to both surfaces thereby creating a capacitor geometry which is particularly useful in terms of applications. A voltage can be applied across the electrodes to switch the polarization of the thin film. The effectiveness of this approach however is dependent on the choice of both the ferroelectric and electrode materials.

Up until now previous models of ferroelectric stability in ultrathin films were unable to provide a consistent picture of ferroelectric charge passivation that could describe the available experimental and theoretical results. Consequently there was no reliable predictor for whether a given metal ferroelectric metal system would remain ferroelectric when decreased to nanoscale dimensions. Based on first principles density functional theory calculations the present invention is able to identify the parameters that are most important in governing the charge compensation and thus the ferroelectric stability of ultrathin films. Accordingly an electrostatic model that accurately describes the behavior of such systems is provided herein.

We find that the ferroelectric stability is primarily determined by four characteristics of the metal ferroelectric metal system 

The amount of charge transferred between the ferroelectric and the metal depends on a the initial difference in the Fermi levels of the metal and the ferroelectric E and b the presence of electronic states at the Fermi level of the ferroelectric. The initial Fermi level offset is the difference in the electrostatic potential of the bulk metal and the bulk ferroelectric and can therefore be computed or obtained experimentally. In addition the polarization in any ferroelectric insulator or semiconductor will shift the distribution of electronic states such that the valence band at the negatively poled surface P and the conduction band at the positively poled surface P cross the Fermi level due to the repulsion attraction of the electronic states and the negative positive bound polarization charge at the P P surfaces. Therefore there will be at least a small number of states at the Fermi level at both surfaces.

2 and 3. The screening lengths of the bottom and the top electrodes. These are well known for almost any choice of metal or semiconductor electrodes.

The presence of a polarization gradient as opposed to a homogeneous polarization in the ferroelectric film will result in the effective redistribution of charge throughout the film instead of just at the surfaces. The polarization gradient and therefore qcan be determined via a Landau theory analysis such as that described in Bratkovsky and Levanyuk BL .

The expression for q and thus for E can be simplified for each of these cases. In case 1 qmust equal zero because there are no filled states at the Fermi level in the ferroelectric at the top surface from which charge can be transferred into the metal. In addition at the bottom surface the contribution from qwill always significantly outweigh that from q since compensation of much of the polarization charge via direct charge transfer is possible. Therefore Eq. 2 is reduced to case 1 PL L 3 

Similar arguments can be used to reduce Eq. 2 in the other three cases giving case 2 PL L 4 case 3 PL L 5 case 4 PL L 6 

In cases 2 and 3 both the charge transfer between the ferroelectric and electrode at the top bottom surfaces are included because in charge transfer into the conduction band is significantly limited by the density of states in the conduction band.

Expression for the depolarizing field. In general the depolarizing field may be written as P 7 where Eis the dielectric constant of the ferroelectric and the position dependence of the polarization and the depolarizing field are both explicitly indicated. Using Eq. 2 this becomes 1 L L P 1 L 1 bot L . 8 

The above equation shows that the magnitude of the depolarizing field depends on three terms. The first term is the same result as the standard screening model giving the dependence of the depolarizing field on the polarization and the film thickness. Our model modifies this with two additional terms relating to the charge transferred across the metal ferroelectric interfaces and the possibility for a polarization gradient. Equation 8 demonstrates that is possible to completely remove or at least dramatically limit the magnitude of the depolarizing field by choosing metal and ferroelectric materials that allow for favorable charge transfer and polarization gradients.

Determining P z and E z using BL. First we want to find the minimum energy polarization and depolarizing fields for a given system. To do this we start by writing the free energy of the ferroelectric film as A T T P B P C P g P E P 9 where A B and C are the usual Landau Devonshire parameters Tis the Curie temperature of bulk BaTiOor PbTiO and g measures the free energy cost of P inhomogeneity in the film.

We recast Eq. 8 into a finite difference form so that A T T P BP CP g P P EP 10 where Pis the polarization of the ith unit cell and i runs from 1 to n 1 where n denotes the layer of the ferroelectric. We set T 0 K and solve Eq. 10 by differentiating Gwith respect to P P. . . Pand solving numerically for P P. . . Pt such that G P G P. . . G Pare equal to 0.

We can then solve for the minimum energy Pand Eby setting P Pand P P where Pand Pare characteristic of the given metal ferroelectric interface obtaining P 1 g g A T 2 1 L L P B P C P L 11 where . 12 

General design rules for stable ultrathin film ferroelectric structures. From the above analysis we can extract general design principles for maximizing the stability of ultrathin ferroelectric films. These are enumerated as follows 

This situation will occur when one selects electrode materials such that the Fermi level of the metal is lower than that of the oxide at both the P and the P interfaces.

This situation will occur when one selects electrode materials such that the Fermi level of the metal is higher than that of the oxide at both the P and the P interfaces.

Inhomogeneous polarization of the film can be achieved through the use of bulk oxides with a low energy cost associated with polarization gradients or through the use of oxide composites with different bulk polarization values.

a Simultaneous selection of a metal whose Fermi level is lower than the oxide Fermi level at the P interface but not at the P interface and the selection of an oxide composite such that the oxide polarization is greater than Pnear the P interface leads to greater stability.

b Simultaneous selection of a metal whose Fermi level is lower than the oxide Fermi level at the P interface but not at the P interface and the selection of an oxide composite such that the oxide polarization is less than Pnear the P interface leads to greater stability.

c Simultaneous selection of a metal whose Fermi level is higher than the oxide Fermi level at the P interface but not at the P interface and the selection of an oxide composite such that the oxide polarization is greater than Pnear the P interface leads to greater stability.

d Simultaneous selection of a metal whose Fermi level is higher than the oxide Fermi level at the P interface but not at the P interface and the selection of an oxide composite such that the oxide polarization is less than Pnear the P interface leads to greater stability.

Specific examples of stable ultrathin film ferroelectric structures consistent with the above listed design rules. In regard to design rule 1 using an oxide with a large bulk polarization P increases stability the following materials are suitable PT PT PbTiO has large P and is a prototype any of the many alloys of PT with PZT Pb Zr Ti Obeing particularly suitable next generation materials with large bulk P greater than that of PT such as BZT Bi ZnTi O alloys of Bi based ABOoxides with PT such as those described in Nonmonotonic TC Trends in Bi Based Ferroelectric Perovskite Solid Solutions Ilya Grinberg and Andrew M. Rappe Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 037603 2007 and Structure and Polarization in the High Tc Ferroelectric Bi Zn Ti O PbTiOSolid Solutions Ilya Grinberg et al. 98 107601 2007 the entirety of each publication pertaining to alloys of Bi based ABOoxides with PT is incorporated by reference herein the alloy is BZT PT Bi ZnTi O PbTiO . In addition applying in plane compressive strain generally increases P as well. This can be used to some extent to increase the polarization of BaTiO for example and can be important in making Pb free materials.

In regard to design rule 2 using short screening length metals the following materials are suitable Pt and Al. Most of the other transition metals have short screening lengths as well offering a range of in plane lattice constants to match up with different ferroelectric materials for epitaxial growth and different in plane strains. It should also be noted that epitaxial match up of the metal electrodes interfaces and the ferroelectric thin film does not necessarily require the corresponding layers to be epitaxial.

In regard to design rule 3 using electron transfer from oxide to metal on P end only the following materials are suitable Pt BT Pt and Pt PT Pt which exhibits this effect based on the calculations of the Pt PT Pt system provided herein.

In regard to design rule 4 using electron transfer from metal to oxide on P end only the following materials are suitable a more electropositive metal to show this behavior when paired with PT such as possibly K PT potassium on PbTiO3 our DFT calculations show that Al PT Al has this behavior.

In regard to design rule 5 using a material with P Pnear the surface on the P side the following materials are suitable in some metal oxide metal combinations this happens spontaneously e.g. Pt PT Pt as reported hereinabove Pt PT BT PT Pt without being bound to any particular theory of operation having PT at the oxide surface will enhance P Pat the P interface reduces the depolarizing field. The enhanced P Pat the P surface doesn t matter in our opinion because the electronic transfer from PT to Pt at the P surface passivates that surface. In addition SR TiO PT TiO SR is an example of a system with both P P at P and P

In regard to design rule 6 it is not necessary to have the same electrode material at both interfaces. For example one way to increase BT stability while still retaining switchability in a single system is to use one Pt electrode and one SR electrode. When the Pt electrode is at the P interface Pt BaO BT BaO SR the average polarization is larger than the bulk BT polarization. When the Pt electrode is at the P interface i.e. when the polarization direction is switched the system has another stable ferroelectric state with a smaller polarization.

In regard to crystal orientations of the compositions described herein the absence of interface trap states and high interface quality are important to creating thin film dielectric materials. Pt 100 on PT due to lattice matching is a manifestation of this positive idea. Accordingly epitaxy in the systems is not a requirement to achieve stable thin film ferroelectric structures. In certain embodiments interface defects trap states or both could contribute to charge compensation but just as many in which they could destabilize ferroelectricity. Accordingly while epitaxy is not necessarily required it provides more control over the composition of the metal ferroelectric interfaces. With being bound by any particular theory of operation this phenomenon is independent of ferroelectric film thickness however their relative effects on polarization stability will decrease as film thickness increases. The DFT examples described herein are for films of thickness in the range of from about 8 Angstroms to about 12 Angstroms which corresponds to about 3 units cells of the ferroelectric material. Even thinner film thicknesses are possible such as 2 or even 1 unit cell which can correspond to thin film thicknesses on the order of at least about 1 Angstrom or even at least about 2 Angstroms or even at least about 3 Angstroms or even at least about 4 Angstroms or even at least about 5 Angstroms or even at least about 6 Angstroms or even at least about 7 Angstroms. Larger film thicknesses of up to about 13 Angstroms of up to about 14 Angstroms of up to about 15 Angstroms of up to about 16 Angstroms of up to about 17 Angstroms of up to about 18 Angstroms of up to about 19 Angstroms of up to about 20 Angstroms of up to about 21 Angstroms of up to about 22 Angstroms or even up to about 23 Angstroms are also possible. This can correspond to 4 or more unit cells of the ferroelectric material such as up to 5 or even 6 or even 7 oro even 8 or even 9 or more unit cells. Accordingly applying these design rules enable the manufacture of thin film dielectric systems without a critical thickness.

DFT results for ultrathin metal ferroelectric metal capacitors. To test the application of these general design rules we performed DFT calculations using ultrasoft pseudopotentials and the generalized gradient approximation GGA as implemented in the ab initio code dacapo http dcwww.camp.dtu.dk campos Dacapo with a plane wave cutoff of 30 Ry and a 4 4 1 Monkhorst Pack k point mesh. We considered both the AO and TiOterminations of 7 layer thick BaTiOand PbTiO 001 films sandwiched between two electrodes. To investigate the effects of the interfacial layers and the metal identity four types of systems were investigated as shown in Table II symmetric films with symmetric electrodes symmetric films with asymmetric electrodes symmetric films with surface layer substitutions and asymmetric films with surface layer substitutions. Here a symmetric films and a symmetric electrodes refer to the identity of the ferroelectric P and P surface layers and the electrode materials respectively not to the structural symmetry of the film all films were initially bulk polarized then allowed to relax completely until the forces on each atom were less than 0.01 eV .

The in plane lattice constant was fixed to the theoretical bulk PbTiOvalue of 3.86 for all films for consistency in comparison of mixed layer films. Therefore the BaTiOfilms are under a compressive strain of 3 in agreement with theory and experiment they are therefore ferroelectric unlike those considered under strain free conditions. We also examined a number of films at the theoretical BaTiOand SrTiOin plane lattice constants a 3.99 and a 3.94 respectively. Qualitatively the results show similar trends but with polarization values decreasing with increasing lattice constant.

The computed polarization values of a variety of capacitor structures are shown in II. The total energies of each structure were compared to those of the corresponding paraelectric structure to confirm the stability of the ferroelectric state. In the asymmetric systems the middle five ferroelectric layers were fixed in their centrosymmetric positions to compute the total energy of the paraelectric state. In the cases where a polarization magnitude is given the ferroelectric well depth was determined to be negative i.e. the ferroelectric state was more stable than the paraelectric state . Systems listed as not stable were found to have a small barrier between a local ferroelectric minimum the lower energy paraelectric ground state.

Qualitative trends. The polarization values in Table II clearly illustrate that the composition of the interface plays a huge role in determining ferroelectric stability. We can draw a number of conclusions about the nature of the metal ferroelectric interface from the data in this table. First we see that the screening length does not play the main role in determining ferroelectric stability. Most strikingly Al and Pt electrodes produce dramatically different behavior even though they have the same very small screening length 0.5 . For example Pt stabilizes a large polarization in BaTiOfilms with both BaO and TiOterminations while Al electrodes do not stabilize any polarization at all in the same films. Furthermore SrRuO which has a much larger screening length 4 than Pt or Al also stabilizes a ferroelectric state in both BaTiOfilms.

We also see that there is a significant difference between the polarization of AO and TiO terminated films of the same material. This effect is most pronounced with SrRuOelectrodes. For example the PbO terminated SrRuO PbTiO SrRuOfilm exhibits almost full bulk polarization while the analogous TiO terminated film has a much smaller polarization about of the bulk value. This demonstrates that at the nanoscale where the ratio of surface to bulk like regions is large we cannot describe the ferroelectric or metallic oxide electrodes based solely on their bulk properties which would suggest the same interaction for both terminations.

Another observation that becomes clear from Table II is that the surface ferroelectric layers are much more important than the central layers in governing the stability. While the bulk region of the film approximately determines the maximum of the polarization i.e. the BaTiOfilms with the largest polarizations are around P etc. it is the surface layers that determine the amount of the bulk polarization that can be stabilized. This makes sense as for example it becomes very unfavorable for BaTiOto have a polarization much larger than its bulk value therefore even if the presence of a PbO surface layer could possibly screen more than the polarization charge there is no incentive for it to do so.

Table II also shows that the behavior of a given surface layer is very different at the negatively and positively poled interfaces. We find for instance that a PbO layer at the P surface is not necessarily as good at screening as a PbO layer at the P surface even in combination with same electrode. Substituting both BaO surface layers in a Pt BaTiO Pt film with PbO increases the polarization from 75 to 91 of the bulk BaTiOvalue. Substituting just the bottom BaO layer however results in a polarization of 66 of the bulk BaTiO not even as effective as two BaO surfaces. On the other hand substituting PbO for the top BaO layer increases the polarization to 110 of the bulk value. The same principle is true for TiOand BaO surface layers the interaction of a given ferroelectric layer with a given metal at Pcannot be described as the same but in the opposite direction as that at P.

Finally we see that the asymmetry introduced by having two different electrodes is not sufficient to cause ferroelectricity in and of itself. In some cases one direction is favored over the other with a larger polarization indicating an asymmetric double well potential. At the extreme of this case we find in the TiO terminated BaTiOsystem with one Pt and one SrRuOelectrode that there is only a single stable polarized state whether it is initially pointing towards the Pt or the SrRuOelectrode the polarization flips such that the Pt electrode is always at the P interface.

Discovery of the source of the problem with respect to various aspects of the instant invention It is well known that ferroelectric materials experience a potential drop voltage drop across them. This voltage drop is directly proportional to the material polarization and the electrode screening length and inversely proportional to ferroelectric film thickness making it a bigger problem for thinner films . This is referred to as a depolarizing field . It is intrinsic to all ferroelectrics.

It is also well known that electrodes remove much but not all of this voltage drop. In principle if a metal with screening length 0 were found it could perfectly passivate the voltage drop but no such metal exists.

The depolarizing field is directed oppositely to the polarization and tends to inhibit or remove polarization. Therefore below a certain thickness ferroelectricity is not stable.

It is therefore widely concluded by others of skill in the art prior to this invention that films below a certain thickness cannot support stable ferroelectricity along the surface normal direction.

Accordingly a conceptual solution giving rise to the various aspects of the claimed invention as disclosed herein is as follows If local dipoles oriented parallel to the polarization are introduced into the system near one or both faces of the ferroelectric this can reduce below the value of the prevailing wisdom or completely eliminate the depolarizing field.

The reason why this solution works is as follows the electrode screening is based on the total potential drop between one electrode and the other. In the proposed conceptual solution the electrodes screen the local dipole at one end the polarization of the ferroelectric film and the local dipole at the other end. This provides greater screening than just screening the ferroelectric only and reduces or eliminates the depolarization field and the potential drop in the ferroelectric. This enables robust ferroelectricity in ultrathin approximately on the order of magnitude of 1 nm films.

This film will exhibit two mechanisms for creating local dipoles that are parallel to the polarization enhancing electrode screening and stabilizing ferroelectricity in ultrathin films.

1. At the P end electrons move from BZT PT to Pt. This is because the fermi energy of Pt is below that of P BZT PT. Moving negative charge to the left makes a dipole parallel to the polarization dipole.

2. At the P end the BZT PT layer will have P P bulk. This will increase the positive charge at the P end the BZT PT Pt interface and create some negative charge at the PT BZT PT interface. This new dipole is also parallel to the polarization dipole.

The electron transfer mechanism 1 and the polarization gradient mechanism 2 are specific material solutions creating local surface dipoles parallel to the polarization dipole enhancing screening of electrodes and enabling stable ferroelectric polarization in thinner films than without this conceptual solution to the Depolarizing field problem.

Although several illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be understood that various modifications to the materials structures and methods will be apparent to those of skill in the art and are within the spirit and scope of the invention.

