---

title: Binary logic utilizing MEMS devices
abstract: Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to switches that utilize micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS). By replacing transistors in many devices with switches such as MEMS switches, the devices may be used for logic applications. MEMS switches may be used in devices such as FPGAs, NAND devices, nvSRAM devices, AMS chips and general memory logic devices. The benefit of utilizing MEMS devices in place of transistors is that the transistors utilize more space on the chip. Additionally, the MEMS devices can be formed in the BEOL without having any negative impacts on the FEOL or necessitating the use of additional layers within the chip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08203880&OS=08203880&RS=08203880
owner: Cavendish Kinetics Inc.
number: 08203880
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100618
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 222 476 filed Jul. 1 2009 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to switches that utilize micro electromechanical systems MEMS .

Currently MEMS based non volatile memory NVM design requires all peripheral circuits and the pass gate in each memory cell to be a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS device. To further utilize the advantage of MEMS based design between interconnect layers one needs to be able to do all of the simple logics with MEMS only design. At the very end there will be the interface design between MEMS design and CMOS design. To date MEMS only design has not been achieved for NVM devices.

One example of a NVM device is a non volatile static random access memory nvSRAM . Many nvSRAM applications comprise fast unlimited as well as random read and write accesses to memory while also having protection against data loss during power failures. Such applications utilize SRAM functionality but with non volatile behavior. According to Web Feet Research April 2007 the nvSRAM market should grow at 28 CAGR to 956 million in 2012.

Today the nvSRAM market consists of three different approaches. The first approach utilizes existing non volatile memory without SRAM such as standard flash electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash random access memory FRAM and magnetoresistive random access memory MRAM . These technologies all have limitations with respect to speed and or endurance.

The second approach is standard SRAM memories with battery backup. However relying on a battery is not a real fail safe option and regular replacements of batteries is required and expensive. The third approach is standard SRAM cell architecture but every memory cell also contains an EEPROM cell called nvSRAM . nvSRAM can store the data at power failure and restore it at power up. Storing and restoring can also be controlled by the user. However the memory cells are very large i.e. about twice the size of a normal SRAM cell while also the EEPROM process steps add additional costs resulting in a memory with a cost price of about 3 times the cost of standard SRAM memory.

Data logging is one area where nvSRAMs are needed. Point of sale POS terminals smart terminals are now able to approve payment transactions without having to obtain approval from a remote server. Because secure data resides in the terminal a lot of time can be saved in terms of the over the air verification which is slow as well as intrusion prone.

Motor vehicle crash boxes are another area where nvSRAMs could be employed effectively. The vehicle state data at the time of the crash can go a long way in validating the claims of any party involved in the crash and finding the reason of the crash. This has huge financial implications in the insurance industry and the concept of having crash boxes in passenger commercial vehicles such as the black box utilized in airplanes could become a defacto standard in the near future. nvSRAMs with their fast read write capabilities are a good fit for these applications. Similar critical applications such as medical equipment and high end servers can use nvSRAMs to store their data. In case of an external power failure or unforeseen calamities nvSRAM can hold the data without external intervention. Hence nvSRAMs provide a flexibility of an EEPROM but at SRAM speeds. Applications in environments where field service is not possible costly such as data loggers spread across geographies routers and equipment in in hospitable conditions can use nvSRAMs because nvSRAM do not use batteries.

Another architecture where MEMS devices may be used is NOR architecture. MEMS NOR architecture requires at least one transistor in each memory cell. Because of the NMOS device in each memory cell area underneath the MEMS could not be utilized. For MEMS NOR architecture The MEMS memory cells take up 50 area of MEMS memory array area for small bit count i.e. a few Kbits design or a lot more e.g. 80 for bigger memory size. Thus MEMS NOR architecture needs further development to utilize less of the memory array area.

Analog and mixed signal chips are another area where MEMS devices may be used. There are many analog and mixed signals chips which require some form of fine tuning to achieve a proper functioning of the device within its specifications. Some examples of devices that typically require fine tuning are DA and AD converters operational amplifiers filters digital potentiometers etc. This fine tuning usually requires redefining the value of one or more resistors and capacitors and occasionally even inductors. These can either be controlled in an analog manner e.g. Varicap or a digital manner. As true analog varicaps and analog potentiometers can t be made inside a chip they are mimicked by a network of capacitors and resistors which can be switched on or off within the network by means of a transistor. Switching these transistors needs to be established one or more times during calibration of the circuit and they need to stay in the same position during the normal operation of the circuit. Even more the circuit needs to memorize the position of these switches also when no power is supplied to the circuit. Hence it requires some non volatile memory to retain the position of these switches.

Today the non volatile elements can be either one time programmable or multiple times programmable. In the case of a one time programmable solution there are traditionally the following options. First a laser fuse which is a small wire placed on the chip which will be melted away by means of exposure to a small laser bundle. Second an anti fuse which is a high impedance via connection between two wires on the chip which can be blown up to become a low impedance connection. Third an electrical fuse which is a special wire on the chip which can be electrically blown up to become a high impedance. Fourth blowing up a transistor which becomes a high impedance value versus a low impedance when normally switched on. One of the issues with one time programmable devices is that they can t be tested in both states prior to releasing it to a customer.

Some analog and mixed signal devices are programmed only once but still will use a multi times programmable element in order to apply a decent test prior to active usage. Other analog and mixed signal devices simply are programmed more than once and therefore prefer to use a multiple time programmable element. Examples of technologies for multiple programmable elements include at least four different technologies. First among the examples is floating gate techniques. The floating gates are transistors with an extra floating gate which can get charged by applying different high voltages. A charged floating gate will provide another behavior of such a transistor which can be detect as a difference in current at the same gate voltage. There are different variations of this technology like EPROM EEPROM flash NOR flash NAND flash SONOS etc. Second among the examples is a ferro electric technique where a ferro electric material is used as the dielectric of a capacitor resulting in two different values for this capacitor depending on the bias of the voltage. Third among the examples is a magnetic resistive technique of which two different versions exist. Fourth among the examples is phase change techniques.

Another area where MEMS devices would be beneficial is field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . A FPGA is a semiconductor device that can be configured by the customer or designer after manufacturing hence the name field programmable . FPGAs are programmed using a logic circuit diagram or a source code in a hardware description language HDL to specify how the chip will work. They can be used to implement any logical function that an application specific integrated circuit ASIC could perform but the ability to update the functionality after shipping offers advantages for many applications.

FPGAs contain programmable logic components called logic blocks and a hierarchy of reconfigurable interconnects that allow the blocks to be wired together somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. Logic blocks can be configured to perform complex combinational functions or merely simple logic gates like AND and XOR. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory.

It would be beneficial to be able to fabricate FPGAs NAND nvSRAM AMS chips and memory logic devices utilizing less chip space without affecting front end of the line FEOL processes.

Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to switches that utilize micro electromechanical systems MEMS . By replacing transistors in many devices with switches such as MEMS switches the devices may be used for logic applications. MEMS switches may be used in devices such as FPGAs NAND devices nvSRAM devices AMS chips and general memory logic devices. The benefit of utilizing MEMS devices in place of transistors is that the transistors utilize more space on the chip. Additionally the MEMS devices can be formed in the BEOL without having any negative impacts on the FEOL or necessitating the use of additional layers within the chip.

In one embodiment a device is disclosed in which a MEMS switch is utilized in place of a digital transistor. Within CMOS both the PMOS and CMOS transistors can be replaced by MEMS switches. The cap of the MEMS switch can be the bulk of the transistor. When both the PMOS and CMOS transistors are replaced by MEMS switches it is considered to be an inverter. In another embodiment an inverter is disclosed. The inverter includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a first pull in electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The inverter also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second contact electrode a second pull in electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The inverter also includes a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode a Vdd line coupled with the second cantilever electrode an input line coupled with the first pull in electrode and the second pull in electrode and an output line coupled with the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode.

In another embodiment an inverter is disclosed. The inverter includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a first pull in electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The inverter also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second contact electrode a second pull in electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The inverter also includes a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode a Vdd line coupled with the second cantilever electrode a first input line coupled with the first pull in electrode a second input line coupled with the second pull in electrode and an output line coupled with the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode. The inverter may be used to create a NAND gate or any other complex digital gate.

MEMS devices may also be used for NAND gates. The NAND gate is a digital logic gate. A low output results only if both the inputs to the gate are high. If one or both inputs are low a high output results. The NAND gate is a universal gate in the sense that any Boolean function can be implemented by NAND gates.

Digital systems employing certain logic circuits take advantage of NAND s functional completeness. NAND gates can also be made with more than two inputs yielding an output of low if all of the inputs are high and an output of high if any of the inputs is low. These kinds of gates therefore operate as n array operators instead of a simple binary operator. Algebraically these can be expressed as the function NAND a b . . . n which is logically equivalent to NOT a AND b AND . . . AND n . The NAND gate is the easiest gate to manufacture and also has the property of functional completeness. That is any other logic function AND OR etc. can be implemented using only NAND gates. An entire processor can be created using NAND gates alone. Typically technicians do not make digital designs with only NAND gates. Rather much more complex gates are utilized.

In another embodiment a cold switch having a precharged logic or non overlapping clocking scheme is disclosed. The cold switch includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a first pull in electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The cold switch also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second contact electrode a second pull in electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The cold switch also includes a third micro electromechanical device having a third contact electrode in contact with the first contact electrode a third pull in electrode and a third cantilever electrode coupled with the second contact electrode and movable between a position in contact with the third contact electrode and a position spaced from the third contact electrode. The precharged logic may be used to create a NAND gate or any other complex digital gate.

In another embodiment a non volatile memory device is disclosed. The memory device includes a non volatile micro electromechanical device having a pull up electrode a cantilever electrode a pull down electrode and a contact electrode. The memory device also includes a transistor having a source electrode a drain electrode coupled to the contact electrode and a gate electrode. The memory device also includes a bit line coupled to the source electrode a VSS line coupled to the pull up electrode and a data line coupled to the cantilever electrode.

In another embodiment a memory device is disclosed. The memory device includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first cantilever electrode a first pull in electrode and a first contact electrode. The memory device also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second cantilever electrode a second pull in electrode coupled to the first pull in electrode and a second contact electrode. The memory device also includes a third micro electromechanical device having a third cantilever electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a third pull in electrode and a third contact electrode. The memory device also includes a fourth micro electromechanical device having a fourth cantilever electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a fourth pull in electrode and a fourth contact electrode. The memory device also includes a fifth micro electromechanical device having a fifth cantilever electrode a fifth pull in electrode coupled to the third contact electrode and a fifth contact electrode coupled to the third contact electrode. The memory device also includes a sixth micro electromechanical device having a sixth cantilever electrode a sixth pull in electrode coupled to the fifth pull in electrode and a sixth contact electrode coupled to the fourth contact electrode. The memory device also includes a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode and the second cantilever electrode and a Vdd line coupled to the fifth cantilever electrode and the sixth cantilever electrode.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM includes at least one micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one transistor a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM device includes at least one volatile micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one non volatile micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one transistor a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM device includes a plurality of micro electromechanical devices having four terminals a plurality of transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a release line and a Vssr line.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM device includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes at least one transistor a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM device includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes thirteen transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line.

In another embodiment a nvSRAM device is disclosed. The nvSRAM device includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes twelve transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line.

In another embodiment a NAND based non volatile memory architecture is disclosed. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull up electrode a first pull in electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull up electrode a second pull in electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The second cantilever electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a first word line coupled to the first pull in electrode a second word line coupled to the second pull in electrode a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode and a transistor coupled to the second micro electromechanical device.

In another embodiment a method of reading a NAND based non volatile memory architecture is disclosed. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture has a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull up electrode a first pull in electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also has a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull up electrode a second pull in electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The second cantilever electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a first word line coupled to the first pull in electrode a second word line coupled to the second pull in electrode a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode a transistor having a drain electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a gate electrode coupled to a bit signal line a source electrode coupled to a bit line and a data line coupled to the first pull up electrode and the second pull up electrode. The method includes applying a first voltage to the first word line applying a second voltage to the second word line that is less than the first voltage applying a third voltage to the bit select line that is substantially equal to the first voltage applying a fourth voltage to the bit line that is less than the third voltage and greater than the second voltage moving the first cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the first contact electrode and moving the second cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode.

In another embodiment a method of programming a NAND based non volatile memory architecture is disclosed. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture has a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull up electrode a first pull in electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also has a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull up electrode a second pull in electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The second cantilever electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a first word line coupled to the first pull in electrode a second word line coupled to the second pull in electrode a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode a transistor having a drain electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a gate electrode coupled to a bit signal line and a source electrode coupled to a bit line and a data line coupled to the first pull up electrode and the second pull up electrode. The method includes applying a first voltage to the first word line applying a second voltage to the second word line that is substantially equal to the first voltage applying a third voltage to the bit select line that is less than the first voltage applying a fourth voltage to the bit line that is less than the third voltage moving the first cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the first contact electrode and moving the second cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode.

In another embodiment a method of erasing a NAND based non volatile memory architecture is disclosed. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull up electrode a first pull in electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull up electrode a second pull in electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The second cantilever electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. A first word line is coupled to the first pull in electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a second word line coupled to the second pull in electrode a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode a transistor having a drain electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a gate electrode coupled to a bit signal line a source electrode coupled to a bit line and a data line coupled to the first pull up electrode and the second pull up electrode. The method includes applying a first voltage to the first word line applying a second voltage to the second word line that is less than the first voltage applying a third voltage to the bit select line that is substantially equal to the first voltage applying a fourth voltage to the bit line that is less than the third voltage and greater than the second voltage applying a fifth voltage to the data line that is greater than the first voltage moving the first cantilever electrode to a position spaced from the first contact electrode and moving the second cantilever electrode to a position spaced from the second contact electrode.

In another embodiment a non volatile NAND array is disclosed. The array includes a first word line a second word line a third word line a first bit select line a first bit line a second bit line a third bit line a first data line a second date line and a third data line. The array also includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull in electrode coupled to the first word line a first contact electrode a first pull up electrode and a first cantilever electrode. The array also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull in electrode coupled to the second word line a second contact electrode coupled with the first cantilever electrode a second cantilever electrode and a second pull up electrode. The array also includes a third micro electromechanical device having a third pull in electrode coupled to the third word line a third contact electrode coupled to the second cantilever electrode a third cantilever electrode and a third pull up electrode. The array also includes a Vss line coupled to the third cantilever electrode a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the first bit line a first drain electrode coupled to the first contact electrode a first gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line a second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the first data line a second drain electrode coupled to each of the first pull up electrode the second pull up electrode and the third pull up electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line.

In another embodiment a mFPLA is disclosed. The mFPLA includes a first bit line a first block select line a first erase column line a first erase row line a first data line and a first data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the bit line a first drain electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the block select line. The mFPLA also includes a second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the erase column line a second drain electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the block select line. A third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the data line a third drain electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a fourth transistor having a fourth source electrode coupled to the erase row line a fourth drain electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode coupled to both the first drain electrode and the third drain electrode a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced form the first contact electrode. A second micro electromechanical device having a second contact electrode a second pull in electrode coupled to the first drain electrode and the third drain electrode a third contact electrode lying in substantially the same plane as the second contact electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and a first rocker electrode movable between positions in contact with the second contact electrode in contact with the third contact electrode and spaced from both the second contact electrode and the third contact electrode may also be present.

In another embodiment a mFPLA is disclosed. The mFPLA includes a first bit line a first erase column line a block select line a first data line a first erase data line and a data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the first bit line a first drain electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the block select line. A second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the first erase column line a second drain electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the first data line a third drain electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the data select line. A fourth transistor having a fourth source electrode coupled to the first erase data line a fourth drain electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a first micro electromechanical element having a first contact electrode coupled to the first drain electrode a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. A second micro electromechanical element having a second contact electrode coupled to the first cantilever electrode a second pull in electrode a second pull up electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a third micro electromechanical element having a third contact electrode coupled the third drain electrode a third pull in electrode a third pull up electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and a third cantilever electrode coupled to the first contact electrode and the first drain electrode and movable between a position in contact with the third contact electrode and a position spaced from the third contact electrode.

In another embodiment a mFPLA is disclosed. The mFPLA includes a first bit line a first erase column line a first erase row line a first data line a block select line and a data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the first bit line a first drain electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the block select line. A second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the erase column line a second drain electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the first data line a third drain electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the data select line. A fourth transistor having fourth source electrode coupled to the first erase row line a fourth drain electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. The mFPLA also includes a first micro electromechanical element having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the first contact electrode a first pull in electrode coupled to the third drain electrode and the first drain electrode and a first rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode. A second micro electromechanical element having a third contact electrode a fourth contact electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the third contact electrode a second pull in electrode coupled to the third drain electrode first pull in electrode and first drain electrode and a second rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the third contact electrode a position in contact with the fourth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the third contact electrode and the fourth contact electrode may also be present.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. It is contemplated that elements disclosed in one embodiment may be beneficially utilized on other embodiments without specific recitation.

Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to switches that utilize micro electromechanical systems MEMS . By replacing transistors in many devices with switches such as MEMS switches the devices may be used for logic applications. MEMS switches may be used in devices such as FPGAs NAND devices nvSRAM devices AMS chips and general memory logic devices. The benefit of utilizing MEMS devices in place of transistors is that the transistors utilize more space on the chip. Additionally the MEMS devices can be formed in the BEOL without having any negative impacts on the FEOL or necessitating the use of additional layers within the chip.

Throughout the description herein reference will be made to a cantilever type MEMS device and a rocker type MEMS device. shows a cantilever type MEMS device . The cantilever type MEMS device includes a pull up electrode a contact electrode a pull in electrode and a cantilever electrode . During operation the cantilever electrode is movable from a position spaced from the contact electrode to a position in contact with the contact electrode . In one embodiment the cantilever electrode may even move to a position in contact with the pull up electrode. In some situations the pull up electrode may be referred to as a pull off electrode but it is to be understood that the terms pull up electrode and pull off electrode are interchangeable. Additionally in some situations the term pull down electrode may be used to refer to a pull in electrode. It is to be understood that the terms pull in electrode and pull down electrode may be interchangeable. Additionally the orientation of the MEMS device is not limited to the orientation shown in . In certain embodiments the pull up electrode may not be present. In other embodiments the pull in electrode may not be present.

Advantages of the new MEMS device design families include providing an effective cost reduced design practice. For example the multiple die EEPROM and CMOS can be combined into one device. A small and simple FPGA can be implemented with MEMS based interconnect layer design. Multiple chip designs can be implemented on the same die where CMOS contains the main function and interconnect layer contains the necessary logic and NVM for the secondary design. The design can be another foundation of a 3D FPGA.

In the logic family self released cantilevers are used. In inverter design hot switch and feed through current are used and shown in . There will be hot switch feed through current from VDD to VSS because two cantilevers will not switch at the exact the same time. shows an inverter having first and second micro electromechanical devices that each have a contact electrode a pull in electrode and a cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the contact electrode and a position spaced from the contact electrode. The inverter also includes a Vss line coupled to one of the cantilever electrodes and a Vdd line coupled with the other cantilever electrode. An input line is coupled with the pull in electrodes and an output line is coupled with the contact electrodes.

To avoid the hot switch feed through current a different version of inverter was designed as shown in that shows a no hot switch feed through current logic design. The inverter shown in includes two micro electromechanical devices that each have a contact electrode a pull in electrode and a cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the contact electrode and a position spaced from the contact electrode. A Vss line is coupled to one of the cantilever electrodes while a Vdd line is coupled with the other cantilever electrode.

Similarly a family of cold switch logic using precharged logic was developed as shown in . After are combined the logic will be as the following as shown in . The cold switch of has a non overlapping clocking scheme and includes multiple micro electromechanical devices. The micro electromechanical devices have a contact electrode a pull in electrode and a cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the contact electrode and a position spaced from the contact electrode. An input may be coupled with one or the pull in electrodes while an output may be coupled with one of the contact electrodes.

In one embodiment NVMs utilizing only MEMS devices are discussed. A NVM memory cell using a self released cantilever for a pass gate and using a non volatile cantilever for a NVM device is shown in . The pull up electrode may be low at PR 1 and PR 0 . The cantilever may be low at PR 1 and high at PR 0 . The pull in electrode may be high at PR 1 and at PR 0 . The MEMS device could be erased by applying a resonant frequency on the pull up or pull in electrode. Non volatile and self release cantilevers on the same MEMS process may also be considered. A non volatile cantilever utilizes thinning of the leg portion of the cantilever to control the resiliency of the cantilever. A self release cantilever on the other hand does not usually have thinning of the leg so that the cantilever is resilient enough to pop off the contact electrode when the voltage is reduced to 0. Other options to consider for the cantilever include different shapes for the non volatile memory different shapes for the self release cantilever no leg and being in the same cavity.

Another possibility for MEMS based logic is in memory arrays. Using MEMS based logic and MEMS only memory cell is shown in . The memory cell includes a non volatile micro electromechanical device having a pull up electrode a cantilever electrode a pull down electrode and a contact electrode. The memory device also includes a transistor having a source electrode a drain electrode coupled to the contact electrode and a gate electrode. The memory device also includes a bit line coupled to the source electrode a VSS line coupled to the pull up electrode and a data line coupled to the cantilever electrode.

There are various other possibilities for devices utilizing MEMS devices that will be discussed with reference to . A digital MEMS based SA concept is shown in . In the analog family an always on cantilever a self released cantilever MEMS based cap and a resistor may be used. A resistance mirror e.g. this circuit is equivalent to current mirror in CMOS design is shown in . A single ended SA is shown in . A differential SA with resistance mirror circuit is shown in . The differential SA includes multiple micro electromechanical devices that each have a cantilever electrode a pull in electrode and a contact electrode. The differential SA also includes a Vss line coupled to multiple cantilever electrodes and a Vdd line coupled to multiple cantilever electrodes.

A 2 stage Op Amp with resistance mirror circuit is shown in and may work when contact resistances are achieved. The contact resistances are quite similar for all devices on the chip. Other MEMS only designs include a non volatile asynchronous RS latch using rocker device as shown in . A differential non volatile asynchronous latch and interface circuit to convert V V e.g. 100 mV into full rail 5V is shown in . A non volatile latch from NV RS latch is shown in . An oscillator using self released cantilevers is one of several possible implementations in that is shown in . A non linear verilog for a cap of 50 fF and 100 fF is shown in . A negative feedback voltage regulator is shown in . A CMOS vs. MEMS device comparison is shown in .

nvSRAM is a type of non volatile computer memory. It is similar in operation to SRAMs. Externally nvSRAM looks like a standard SRAM. The HSB signal is an optional signal that does not have to be used. However on the inside there is a lot more going on and the nvSRAM is capable of doing more than a standard SRAM. With nvSRAM there are four operations compared to two in SRAM read write. nvSRAM can read write store and recall. The additional operations center around the non volatile part of the nvSRAM.

When reading and writing the nvSRAM acts no differently than a standard async SRAM. The attached processor or controller sees an 8 bit SRAM interface and nothing else. The store operation is when the data that is in the SRAM array is stored in the non volatile part.

The nvSRAM utilizing MEMS devices disclosed herein creates a non volatile copy of the SRAM data within each cell but the used MEMS device can be put on top of the SRAM cell and does not require extra cell size. The extra process steps add a similar amount of cost to the process as EEPROM but the cell size stays the same. The cell is approximately half of the cost of the existing nvSRAM solutions and utilizes one wafer. Splitting the cell over two different wafers such as done prior to the instant application i.e. one wafer for SRAM process and one wafer for SONOS process and glue the two wafers together is a poor alternative. First splitting the cell requires two through wafer via interconnects per cell which would determine the cell size with today s technology. Second the costs associated with utilizing two wafers are significant. Furthermore today s EEPROM based nvSRAM requires a long time 10 to 50 ms and quite some current to store the data in the EEPROM cells. Therefore EEPROM based nvSRAMs require a large external capacitor which stores sufficient energy to guarantee the required power to execute the storage action while the external power supply is already going down. Such an external capacitor adds to the cost and also requires space on the board.

The nvSRAM utilizing MEMS devices on the other hand takes less than 200 ns depending on implementation of the MEMS devices at a very small current as it only is charging and discharging internal capacitance. The external capacitor can be much smaller and may be eliminated as the power supply lines on the board have sufficient capacitance to guarantee that it will power down much slower than the required 200 ns. Finally the large charge pumps to generate the high voltage for programming and erase are not needed. However it is possible to utilize a 2 Vdd charge pump but this is much less than what is used for program and erase of floating gate devices today.

The embodiments discussed herein add one or more MEMS switches to a standard SRAM cell architecture. Not all possible combinations will be described but several variations are described which can be combined in various ways. It is to be understood to those having ordinary skill in the art that the MEMS switches can be utilized in multiple different combinations. Certain signals can be inverted to achieve identical behavior.

Before describing the architecture first the following restrictions for the MEMS switches need to be applied. The non volatile 4 terminal MEMS devices are designed to behave symmetrically. Hence as long as both the pull up electrode and the pull in electrode are at the same voltage while the cantilever has a different voltage they both execute an electro static force on the cantilever. Depending on the current position of the cantilever the electro static force towards the closest electrode i.e. pull in electrode in closed position and pull off electrode in open position will always be larger than the electro static force towards the other electrode. Therefore the switch will stay in its current position when there is no voltage difference between the pull in and pull off electrode. The two contact rocker switches can be symmetrical by the design and therefore has fewer issues with respect to process variability.

The cantilever devices may be designed as such that a voltage difference between the contact electrode and the cantilever does not result in a spurious closure of the switch. Furthermore the cantilever may be designed as such that no arbitrary write sequence of the SRAM bitcell results in a resonance of the cantilever and therefore results in a spurious unintended switching of the cantilever device.

More specifically in regards to the nvSRAM includes at least one micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one transistor a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line. The nvSRAM may include a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The nvSRAM may also include a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull in electrode a second pull up electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode.

A plurality of transistors may also be present that include source drain and gate electrodes. In one embodiment eighth transistors are present. The first source electrode and the second source electrode may be coupled to the VddRow line. A first drain electrode may be coupled to the third drain electrode and a first cantilever electrode. A second drain electrode may be coupled to the fourth drain electrode and a second cantilever electrode. A first gate electrode may be coupled to the third gate electrode and the second gate electrode may be coupled to the fourth gate electrode. The first cantilever electrode may be coupled to the first drain electrode the third drain electrode the second gate electrode the fourth gate electrode and the fifth drain electrode. The second cantilever electrode may be coupled to the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode the first gate electrode and third gate electrode and the sixth drain electrode. The first pull in electrode and the second pull in electrode may each be coupled to the Store line. The first contact electrode may be coupled to the seventh drain electrode and the second contact electrode may be coupled to the eighth drain electrode. The first pull up electrode the second pull up electrode the seventh source electrode and the eighth source electrode may each be coupled to the Vss line. The seventh gate electrode and the eighth gate electrode may each be coupled to the Restore line. The fifth source electrode may be coupled to a first bit line and the sixth source electrode may be coupled to a second bit line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode may each be coupled to the word line. The plurality of bit lines may be parallel to each other and perpendicular to the VddRow the word line the Store line the Restore line and the Vss line.

An optional activation of the RESTORE signal see at the end of the STORE action just before the STORE signal will be de activated which will change the voltage on the contact electrode will have no impact on the switching behavior. In normal operation the RESTORE signal is LOW and makes sure there is no connection to the contact electrode. When the data from the switches need to be restored into the SRAM cell the RESTORE signal goes HIGH and transistors T and T will be switched on connecting the contact electrode to Vss. Hence depending on which switch is closed either node B or B has a low resistance path to Vss.

When the restore action takes place after power up it may be that the SRAM cell has come up in the other value and hence a large current path through one of the switches exist. Therefore special care needs to be taken during the restore action and the power supply to the SRAM cell VddRow needs to be low when the RESTORE signal goes HIGH. Now assume S is closed and therefore node B has a low resistance path to Vss. All four transistors T to T forming the cross coupled SRAM memory element are still switched off. Now VddRow can be ramped up slowly to become HIGH and T and T will be slowly switched on putting the SRAM cell in its right position. The RESTORE signal remains HIGH during the ramp of VddRow. Obviously when S was closed B has a low resistance path to Vss and T and T will be switched on during the power ramp providing the other bit position.

The cell architecture allows executing STORE and RESTORE actions per row. This might be a feature which can be useful for some application and used under software control. However the main drive for nvSRAM is protection against power failures and obviously the whole array needs to be saved. Still the architecture of has two extra transistor resulting in extra area. However as these transistors are only used for the RESTORE action they will be used only a limited amount of times. Hence these transistors can also be replaced by a volatile version of the MEMS switch. Such a volatile version can be designed within the same process steps by using other design parameters e.g. smaller contact area stiffer cantilever etc. . . . than for the non volatile switch.

A further reduction can be achieved when taking into account that when activated simultaneously a closed switch will open before an open switch will close. In such case both contact electrodes of the MEMS switches S and S can be connected together as no short can occur between B and B during the STORE operation. Hence transistors T and T can become one transistor and drive the combined contact electrodes. describes this where also the transistors T and T are replaced by a volatile MEMS switch VS.

Depending on the process and the requirements the design of 3 MEMS switches S S and VS may be larger than the area consumed by the 6 SRAM transistors. As a further reduction the volatile MEMS switch of or T and T of can be removed and the contact electrodes of switches S and S are directly connected to Vss see .

The nvSRAM device of includes at least one volatile micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one non volatile micro electromechanical device having four terminals at least one transistor a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line. More specifically the at least one non volatile micro electromechanical device includes a plurality of micro electromechanical devices. The first micro electromechanical device includes a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The second micro electromechanical device has a second pull in electrode a second pull up electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The at least one transistor includes six transistors that each have a source drain and gate electrode. A third micro electromechanical device may also be present that includes a third pull in electrode a third pull up electrode a third contact electrode and a third cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the third contact electrode and a position spaced from the third contact electrode. The first pull up electrode the third source electrode the third cantilever electrode the third pull up electrode the fourth source electrode and the second pull up electrode are each coupled to the Vss line. The third pull in electrode is coupled to the Restore line. The first pull in electrode and the second pull in electrode are coupled to the Store line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode are each coupled to the word line. The first source electrode and the second source electrode are each coupled to the VddRow line. The fifth source electrode and the sixth source electrode are each coupled to a separate bit line. The first cantilever the first drain electrode the third drain electrode the second gate electrode the fourth gate electrode and the fifth drain electrode are all coupled together. The first gate electrode the third gate electrode the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode the sixth drain electrode and the second cantilever electrode are all coupled together. The first contact electrode the second contact electrode and the third pull in electrode are all coupled together. The bit lines are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the VddRow line the word line the Store line the Restore line and the Vss line

The nvSRAM device of includes a plurality of micro electromechanical device having four terminals a plurality of transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a release line and a Vssr line. The plurality of micro electromechanical device includes at least two micro electromechanical devices. A first micro electromechanical device includes a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. A second micro electromechanical device having a second pull in electrode a second pull up electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode. The plurality of transistor includes six transistors each having a source drain and gate electrode. The first contact electrode the third source electrode the fourth source electrode and the second contact electrode are each coupled to the Vssr line. The first pull up electrode and the second pull up electrode are each coupled to the Release line. The first pull in electrode and the second pull in electrode are each coupled to the Store line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode are each coupled to the word line. The first source electrode and the second source electrode are each coupled to the VddRow line. The fifth source electrode is coupled to a first bit line and the sixth source electrode is coupled to a second bit line. The fifth drain electrode the first drain electrode the third drain electrode the second gate electrode the fourth gate electrode and the first cantilever electrode are all coupled together. The first gate electrode the third gate electrode the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode and the second cantilever electrode are all coupled together. The bit lines are parallel to each other and perpendicular to each of the VddRow line the word line the Store line the Release line and the Vssr line. The RESTORE signal is no longer used and the restore action is executed by ramping VddRow only.

Clearly this can only work when the MEMS switches S and S are both open when returning to normal operation and the bit can be written into its other position. Therefore the pull off electrodes need to be connected to a RELEASE signal which will be activated after a restore action by VddRow and before any WRITE action.

When using a RELEASE signal at same level as VddRow the closed cantilevers LOW will be opened. Unfortunately the open cantilevers HIGH will be attracted by the pull in electrode LOW and will short the SRAM cell through such switch. To avoid this the RELEASE signal needs to get twice the voltage of VddRow and the signal needs to ramp faster than the time needed to pull in a cantilever. Now for an open cantilever HIGH the absolute value of the voltage difference between cantilever HIGH and pull in electrode is identical to the voltage difference between cantilever and pull off electrode and due to its open position the electrostatic force from the pull off electrode is larger and the cantilever will continue to be held in an open position. The originally closed cantilever LOW will have no electrostatic force from the pull in electrode but an extra large electrostatic force from the pull off electrode assuring the cantilever will open. Also the RELEASE signal needs to ramp down faster than the time needed to pull in a cantilever to avoid closing the open switch at the end of the RELEASE action. Some extra care might be required with the design of the MEMS switch to allow such higher voltage on the pull off electrode.

To even further reduce the amount of MEMS switches the architecture of the SRAM cell can be adapted. The dimensions of the transistors T to T can be designed as such that with no MEMS switches connected node B always will be HIGH after the power up sequence. Note that this will also have an effect on the performance of the SRAM cell. When we connect a MEMS switch to node B and the cantilever is closed the low resistance path through the MEMS switch will force B to LOW. Due to this asymmetry the MEMS switch to drive node B is not required and a minimum architecture is achieved.

Finally to avoid the double voltage on the RELEASE signal it also possible to ramp VddRow in two stages assuming that half the voltage will also allow the transistors to switch on. Now VddRow first ramps to half voltage and all bits get set by this event. Next the RELEASE signal is applied at full voltage to open all MEMS switches and VddRow is also ramped to full voltage. After that normal operation can continue.

Also a rocker switch which has two contact electrodes and shared cantilever electrode can be used and one rocker basically replaces the two cantilever switches of while transistor T switches the extra contact electrode to Vdd. The implementation with a rocker is described in .

The nvSRAM device of includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes at least one transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line. The at least one transistor includes eight transistors each having a source drain and gate electrode. The seventh source electrode the third source electrode the fourth source electrode and the second pull in electrode are each coupled to the Vss line. The seventh gate electrode and the eighth gate electrode are each coupled to the Restore line. The first pull in electrode is coupled to the Store line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode are each coupled to the word line. The first source electrode the second source electrode and the eighth source electrode are each coupled to the VddRow line. The fifth source electrode and the sixth source electrode are each coupled to separate bit lines. The fifth drain electrode the rocker electrode the first drain electrode the third drain electrode the second gate electrode and the fourth gate electrode are all coupled together. The first gate electrode the third gate electrode the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode and the sixth drain electrode are all coupled together. The seventh drain electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode and wherein the eighth drain electrode is coupled to the second contact electrode. The plurality of bit lines are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the VddRow line the word line the Store line the Restore line and the Vss line.

When the STORE signal is LOW both activation electrodes are LOW and when the rocker is also LOW there is no activation and the rocker stays in its current position. When the rocker is HIGH hence B is HIGH the electrostatic force at the position where the rocker is closed will always be stronger than on the other side and therefore the rocker remains in its current position. When the STORE signal goes HIGH while the cantilever is LOW only the left electrode will pull and the rocker will move to the left contact electrode when not already there. When the STORE signal is HIGH while the cantilever is HIGH only the right electrode will pull and the rocker will move to the right contact electrode when not already there.

When the RESTORE signal goes HIGH transistors T and T will switch on and the rocker will create either a low resistance path to Vss or VddRow depending on the state of the rocker. After RESTORE signal goes HIGH VddRow can be ramped up to HIGH too. The waveforms of apply here as well where S and S represent the rocker to be closed at the left resp. right side.

Replacing the transistors T and T with a volatile cantilever device as described in can be done here too. As T is now connected to VddRow it can not be merged with T anymore.

In theory also a similar architecture as can be realized with a rocker device. However for normal operation the rocker would need to be put into a third position which is the middle state where it does not make contact to any of the contact electrodes. Currently we have no means to make this a stable state for this device.

Also the rocker of has some constraints. Hence it should be designed as such that a voltage on a contact electrode can never switch the device. Also the rocker should be designed as such that resonating the pull in electrode due to the write sequence on the SRAM cell should not put the cantilever into a resonance which could cause the device to switch.

A more complex device is shown in which puts less constraints on the rocker device. The nvSRAM device includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes thirteen transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line. Each of the thirteen transistors includes a source a drain and a gate electrode. The twelfth source electrode the seventh source electrode the third source electrode the fourth source electrode the eighth source electrode and the thirteenth source electrode are all coupled to the Vss line. The rocker electrode and the eleventh gate electrode are each coupled to the Restore line. The ninth gate electrode the twelfth gate electrode the tenth gate electrode and the thirteenth gate electrode are all coupled to the Store line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode are each coupled to the word line. The first source electrode and the second source electrode are each coupled to the VddRow line. The fifth source electrode and the sixth source electrode are each coupled to a separate bit line. The ninth drain electrode the twelfth drain electrode and the second pull in electrode are all coupled together. The tenth drain electrode and the thirteenth drain electrode are each coupled to the first pull in electrode. The first contact electrode the seventh gate electrode and the eleventh drain electrode are all coupled together. The second contact electrode the eighth gate electrode and the eleventh source electrode are all coupled together. The fifth drain electrode the ninth source electrode the seventh drain electrode the third drain electrode the first drain electrode the second gate electrode and the fourth gate electrode are all coupled together. The first gate electrode the third gate electrode the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode the sixth drain electrode the tenth source electrode and the eighth drain electrode are all coupled together. The fifth source electrode and the sixth source electrode are each coupled to separate bit lines. The plurality of bit lines are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the VddRow line the word line the Store line the Restore line and the Vss line.

During normal operation all electrodes are grounded and therefore the two above mentioned constraints are not required. Also when switching it will always land on a contact electrode with the same voltage as the cantilever so called cold switching which is considered to be a safer way of switching. This architecture also allows restoring during normal operation hence VddRow is high . This is a major benefit for some applications. The cantilever only drives the gate of a transistor and does not see a path to ground or Vdd through one of the transistors of the cross coupled inverters of the SRAM cell. Therefore it is not required any more to start a restore operation with VddRow starting at 0 Volt.

The transistors T and T make sure the pull in electrodes are grounded during normal operation. Transistor T makes sure the floating contact electrode get grounded through the cantilever during normal operation. During a store operation transistors T and T connect the SRAM bitcell value B and complementary B to the pull in electrode and the cantilever will switch to the right position. During a restore operation either T or T gets activated as the restore signal runs through the cantilever and will ground either B or B forcing the SRAM bitcell to the information stored in the cantilever position. Still more circuits with a rocker device are possible but they are considered to be some derivatives or combinations of any of these architectures like .

The nvSRAM device of includes at least one micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode a first pull in electrode a second pull in electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes a rocker electrode movable from a position in contact with the first contact electrode to a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode. The nvSRAM device also includes thirteen transistors a plurality of bit lines a VddRow line a word line a store line a restore line and a Vss line. The twelve transistors each include a source drain and gate electrode. The eleventh source electrode the twelfth source electrode the third source electrode the fourth source electrode and the rocker electrode are each coupled to the Vss line. The seventh gate electrode and the eighth gate electrode are each coupled to the Restore line. The eleventh gate electrode the ninth gate electrode the tenth gate electrode and the twelfth gate electrode are each coupled to the Store line. The fifth gate electrode and the sixth gate electrode are each coupled to the word line. The first source electrode and the second source electrode are each coupled to the VddRow line. The fifth source electrode and the sixth source electrode are each coupled to separate bit lines. The eleventh drain electrode the ninth drain electrode and the second pull in electrode are all coupled together. The twelfth drain electrode the tenth drain electrode and the first pull in electrode are all coupled together. The seventh drain electrode the ninth source electrode the fifth drain electrode the first drain electrode the third drain electrode the second gate electrode and the fourth gate electrode are all coupled together. The eighth drain electrode the tenth source electrode the sixth drain electrode the second drain electrode the fourth drain electrode the first gate electrode and the third gate electrode are all coupled together. The seventh source electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. The eighth source electrode is coupled to the second contact electrode. The plurality of bit lines are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the VddRow line the word line the Store line the Restore line and the Vss line.

The MEMS NAND architecture doesn t have any CMOS transistor in the cell therefore the mentioned MEMS memory cell area could be used be for other purposes including decoders SA etc. In addition the NAND architecture allows sharing e.g. in the same cavity and or cont cant sharing node which makes the MEMS cell smaller than separate MEMS cell in NOR architecture. This further reduces memory array area.

The main advantage of MEMS NAND architecture is area. The area underneath the MEMS memory cell array can be used. The area for MEMS devices is also less because cavity sharing and contact cant sharing. The total area saving will be 50 or more. The disadvantage of MEMS NAND architecture is the READ access time and READ scheme because the resistance of the cells are in series.

The cantilever operates in two modes. One mode is self released mode where cantilever will be pulled in at certain voltage e.g. 5V in the example and the Rwill be about 10 Kohm. As soon as the electrostatic force is removed the cantilever will go back to open state. The other mode is non volatile mode where the state of cantilever closed or open will be maintained even after the electrostatic force is removed.

In order to get cantilevers in non volatile mode excessive force is required. Excessive force can be achieved in different ways Fe D V Vpi where D 1 for SR of switch speed D 2 for SR 10 switch speed and D 2 3 4 5 with respect to of pulses at resonance frequency.

One manner of achieving excessive force is in the form of voltage used to demonstrate the concept of MEMS NAND architecture. In alternative implementations other means such as slew rate and resonance frequency are mentioned. All of the MEMS cells are together and there are no NMOS devices in the MEMS array. The block select circuit is only at the beginning of the array.

To make everything MEMS only design the block select devices can be replaced with self released devices. An example of MEMS NAND architecture is shown in . The NAND device includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull up electrode a first pull in electrode a first contact electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced from the first contact electrode. The NAND device also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull up electrode a second pull in electrode a second contact electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from the second contact electrode the second cantilever electrode is coupled to the first contact electrode. The NAND device also includes a first word line coupled to the first pull in electrode a second word line coupled to the second pull in electrode a Vss line coupled to the first cantilever electrode and a transistor coupled to the second micro electromechanical device. The transistor comprises a drain electrode coupled to the second contact electrode a gate electrode and a source electrode. The NAND device also includes a bit select line coupled to the gate electrode and a bit line coupled to the source electrode. The NAND based non volatile memory architecture also includes a data line coupled to the first pull up electrode and the second pull up electrode.

If the selected cell is closed the current will flow through the cell which sets the cantilever of the cell right above of the selected cell zero. Because the unselected row is set at 5V the cell will be pulled in. This ripple effect will continue until the first cells in the first row. Then it provides current path from BL to VSS. The method of reading includes applying a first voltage to the first word line applying a second voltage to the second word line that is less than the first voltage applying a third voltage to the bit select line that is substantially equal to the first voltage applying a fourth voltage to the bit line that is less than the third voltage and greater than the second voltage moving the first cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the first contact electrode and moving the second cantilever electrode to a position in contact with the second contact electrode.

To avoid a possibility of cantilever being floating the ERASE for selected cells will be done for the whole block with the sequence from the last row to the first row. This constraint can be implemented within the memory controller or as the external requirement.

Alternative memory operations are the slow rate approach and the resonance frequency approach. Using the slow rate approach there is no need to have 5V for passing and 7V for programming. For example for passing slow slew rate will be used for PROG ERASE fast slew rate will be used. Using the resonance frequency approach resonance frequency could be used for block erase at pull in electrodes or top electrodes. Resonance frequency could be used as scrubbing contact while being pulled in to establish non volatile cantilevers during the PROG operation. An example of MEMS NAND analog array organization is shown in . The array includes a first word line a second word line a third word line a first bit select line a first bit line a second bit line a third bit line a first data line a second date line and a third data line. The array also includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first pull in electrode coupled to the first word line a first contact electrode a first pull up electrode and a first cantilever electrode. The array also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second pull in electrode coupled to the second word line a second contact electrode coupled with the first cantilever electrode a second cantilever electrode and a second pull up electrode. The array also includes a third micro electromechanical device having a third pull in electrode coupled to the third word line a third contact electrode coupled to the second cantilever electrode a third cantilever electrode and a third pull up electrode. The array also includes a Vss line coupled to the third cantilever electrode a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the first bit line a first drain electrode coupled to the first contact electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line and a second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the first data line a second drain electrode coupled to each of the first pull up electrode the second pull up electrode and the third pull up electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line. The non volatile NAND array also includes a fourth micro electromechanical device having a fourth pull in electrode coupled to the first word line a fourth contact electrode a fourth pull up electrode and a fourth cantilever electrode. The array also includes a fifth micro electromechanical device having a fifth pull in electrode coupled to the second word line a fifth contact electrode coupled with the fourth cantilever electrode a fifth cantilever electrode and a fifth pull up electrode. The array also includes a sixth micro electromechanical device having a sixth pull in electrode coupled to the third word line a sixth contact electrode coupled to the fifth cantilever electrode a sixth cantilever electrode and a sixth pull up electrode. The array also includes a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the first bit line a third drain electrode coupled to the third contact electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line. The array also includes a fourth transistor having a fourth source electrode coupled to the first data line a fourth drain electrode coupled to each of the fourth pull up electrode the fifth pull up electrode and the sixth pull up electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line.

The array may alternatively include a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the second bit line a third drain electrode coupled to the third contact electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line. The array may also alternatively include a fourth transistor having a fourth source electrode coupled to the second data line a fourth drain electrode coupled to each of the fourth pull up electrode the fifth pull up electrode and the sixth pull up electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the first bit select line.

MEMS devices may also be used in AMS chips which are formed in back end of the line BEOL compatible processes not affecting any front end of the line FEOL devices. Other technologies are in the FEOL or use higher temperatures and non standard materials potentially causing issues with devices already created in the FEOL. This is of extra concern for the behavior of analog transistors in the FEOL and therefore this invention enables a much easier integration of this process option in the existing semiconductor processes. The MEMS based memory can be used for tuning of analog circuits like any other non volatile memory. The MEMS based switches can also be used to create non volatile shift registers. Such non volatile shift register is a much easier implementation of a tunable analog circuit requiring far less overhead circuitry. Furthermore it does not require a startup mode to download the information from the memory to the registers prior to entering in its operating mode. Regardless if a memory based or shift register based architecture is used they both have the following advantages over the competing technologies. Low power especially applicable to AMS chips in handheld applications like RF transceivers in GSM phones battery management chips etc. native voltage high temperature and rad hard e.g. for any AMS chip used in automotive military or aerospace applications and write speed for fast power up in case of a memory concept.

Embodiments disclosed here relate to using the cantilever based switches as non volatile storing elements for the tuning of analog and mixed signal devices. Each item which needs to be tuned within an AMS device requires one or more control signals which need to be driven by a memory element. One AMS device can contain more than one tunable item. Although a very complex AMS chip may require more memory elements typically it will stay well below one thousand memory elements. Therefore the size of the memory element is not the most critical item with respect to such application.

Typically all transistors in the switching resistor or capacitive network need to be driven continuously. So each transistor needs to be continuously driven by a memory element. Many memory techniques require a complicated sense amplifier to read out a bit cell. Therefore memories are organized in arrays and only one word of any arbitrary length at the time is read from the memory over a bus. In order to provide a continuous signal to each tuning transistor the memory needs to be read out during power up of the device and transported over the bus system to a volatile memory element usually referred to as flipflop where the output of such volatile memory element will continuously drive the transistors in the tuned network. This is schematically described in .

All the prior art claimed memories store the digital value in an analog manner either as a low resistance versus a higher resistance or a low capacitance versus a higher capacitance or a change in threshold of a transistor which effectively will be measured as a difference in on resistance of such transistor. The MEMS switch based memory either has a low resistance when the switch is closed and a near infinite resistance when the switch is off. This opens new possibilities as there will be no current running through a switch in the off position. This provides the possibility to create a simple non volatile shift register to be used to tune the analog circuits. Several variants of such shift registers are described below and can be perfectly used to tune the analog circuits. This results in a much simpler schematic as described in

The overhead of memory circuitry plus control logic to detect power up and subsequently execute a protocol to restore all information over the bus into all flipflops is not required in this schematic. This greatly reduces the amount of circuitry required for tuning the analog circuits. Furthermore the circuit will be in operating mode immediately after power up as it doesn t require a power up protocol to be executed prior to its operating mode.

Within the chip process technology the transistors are created during the FEOL processing. There are various types of transistors in an AMS chip which makes the FEOL a complicated process step where the different steps do influence the quality of the transistors. Implementing a floating gate technique requires extra process steps in the FEOL to create the special floating gate transistors. Such additional steps will influence the quality of the analog transistors and therefore is a cumbersome integration process. This is why many analog semiconductor processes are not available with a nonvolatile flash process option.

The ferro electric magneto resistive and phase change techniques are implemented after the FEOL and sometimes before the BEOL but typically require higher process steps than normally used in the BEOL process steps. As high temperature process steps have a big influence on the quality of the transistors these technologies also tend to have an impact on the quality of the analog behavior of the transistors. Another impact of these techniques is that they use materials which are not used within a standard semiconductor factory and therefore are a real concern with respect of contamination during processing causing defect in other parts of the process steps within the factory. The MEMS based process has a great processing advantage over the competing technologies as it is created within the BEOL without any high temperature process steps and is not using any obscure materials which might cause contamination in the factory.

An FPLA is sometimes referred to as a field programmable gate array FPGA . An FPLA is a semiconductor device that can be configured by the customer or designer after manufacturing hence the name field programmable . FPLAs are programmed using a logic circuit diagram or a source code in a hardware description language HDL to specify how the chip will work. They can be used to implement any logical function that an application specific integrated circuit ASIC could perform but the ability to update the functionality after shipping offers advantages for many applications.

FPLAs contain programmable logic components called logic blocks and a hierarchy of reconfigurable interconnects that allow the blocks to be wired together somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. Logic blocks can be configured to perform complex combinational functions or merely simple logic gates like AND and XOR. In most FPLAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory.

The most common FPLA architecture consists of an array of configurable logic blocks CLBs I O pads and routing channels. Generally all the routing channels have the same width number of wires . Multiple I O pads may fit into the height of one row or the width of one column in the array.

An application circuit must be mapped into an FPLA with adequate resources. While the number of CLBs and I Os required is easily determined from the design the number of routing tracks needed may vary considerably even among designs with the same amount of logic. For example a crossbar switch requires much more routing than a systolic array with the same gate count. Since unused routing tracks increase the cost and decrease the performance of the part without providing any benefit FPLA manufacturers try to provide just enough tracks so that most designs that will fit in terms of LUTs and IOs can be routed. This is determined by estimates such as those derived from Rent s rule or by experiments with existing designs.

A classic FPLA logic block consists of a 4 input lookup table LUT and a flip flop. In recent years manufacturers have started moving to 6 input LUTs in their high performance parts claiming increased performance. There is only one output which can be either the registered or the unregistered LUT output. The logic block has four inputs for the LUT and a clock input. Since clock signals and often other high fanout signals are normally routed via special purpose dedicated routing networks in commercial FPLAs they and other signals are separately managed.

To define the behavior of the FPLA the user provides a HDL or a schematic design. The HDL form might be easier to work with when handling large structures because it s possible to just specify them numerically rather than having to draw every piece by hand. On the other hand schematic entry can allow for easier visualization of a design.

Then using an electronic design automation tool a technology mapped netlist is generated. The netlist can then be fitted to the actual FPLA architecture using a process called place and route usually performed by the FPLA company s proprietary place and route software. The user will validate the map place and route results via timing analysis simulation and other verification methodologies. Once the design and validation process is complete the binary file generated also using the FPLA company s proprietary software is used to re configure the FPLA.

Going from schematic HDL source files to actual configuration The source files are fed to a software suite from the FPLA CPLD vendor that through different steps will produce a file. This file is then transferred to the FPLA CPLD via a serial interface JTAG or to an external memory device like an EEPROM.

The most common HDLs are VHDL and Verilog although in an attempt to reduce the complexity of designing in HDLs which have been compared to the equivalent of assembly languages there are moves to raise the abstraction level through the introduction of alternative languages.

To simplify the design of complex systems in FPLAs there exist libraries of predefined complex functions and circuits that have been tested and optimized to speed up the design process. These predefined circuits are commonly called IP cores and are available from FPLA vendors and third party IP suppliers rarely free and typically released under proprietary licenses . Other predefined circuits are available from developer communities such as OpenCores typically free and released under the GPL BSD or similar license and other sources.

In a typical design flow an FPLA application developer will simulate the design at multiple stages throughout the design process. Initially the RTL description in VHDL or Verilog is simulated by creating test benches to simulate the system and observe results. Then after the synthesis engine has mapped the design to a netlist the netlist is translated to a gate level description where simulation is repeated to confirm the synthesis proceeded without errors. Finally the design is laid out in the FPLA at which point propagation delays can be added and the simulation run again with these values back annotated onto the netlist.

MEMS may be used in FPLAs. MEMS based FPLAs are referred to as MEMS Field Programmable Logic Arrays mFPLA . In the description that follows in regards to BS is a block select line ER  is an erase row line BL is a bit line EC  is an erase column line D is a data line ED  is an erase data line and DS is a data select line. shows an example of an mFPLA. shows an example of F AC AB BC. The mFPLA includes a first bit line a first block select line a first erase column line a first erase row line a first data line and a first data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the bit line a first drain electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the block select line. The mFPLA also includes a second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the erase column line a second drain electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the block select line. The mFPLA also includes a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the data line a third drain electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the data select line. The mFPLA also includes a fourth transistor having a fourth source electrode coupled to the erase row line a fourth drain electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first micro electromechanical device having a first contact electrode coupled to both the first drain electrode and the third drain electrode a first pull in electrode a first pull up electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and a first cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode and a position spaced form the first contact electrode. The mFPLA also includes a second micro electromechanical device having a second contact electrode a second pull in electrode coupled to the first drain electrode and the third drain electrode a third contact electrode lying in substantially the same plane as the second contact electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and a first rocker electrode movable between positions in contact with the second contact electrode in contact with the third contact electrode and spaced from both the second contact electrode and the third contact electrode.

The mFPLA may include a second bit line and a second erase column line. The mFPLA may also include a fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second erase column line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the block select line. A sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second bit line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. A third micro electromechanical element having a fourth contact electrode coupled to the first rocker electrode and the sixth drain electrode a third pull in electrode a third pull up electrode coupled with the fifth drain electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the fourth contact electrode and a position spaced from the fourth contact electrode may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a fourth micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode a fourth pull in electrode coupled with the sixth drain electrode a sixth contact electrode coupled with the fourth drain electrode and a second rocker electrode movable between positions in contact with the fifth contact electrode in contact with the sixth contact electrode and spaced from both the fifth contact electrode and the sixth contact electrode. The mFPLA may additional include a second erase row line and a second data line. A fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second data line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. A sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second erase data line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. A third micro electromechanical element having a fourth contact electrode coupled to the first cantilever electrode and the fifth drain electrode a third pull in electrode a third pull up electrode coupled with the second drain electrode and a second cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the fourth contact electrode and a position spaced from the fourth contact electrode may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a fourth micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode a fourth pull in electrode coupled with the fifth drain electrode a sixth contact electrode coupled with the sixth drain electrode and a second rocker electrode movable between positions in contact with the fifth contact electrode in contact with the sixth contact electrode and spaced from both the fifth contact electrode and the sixth contact electrode.

Alternatively the mFPLA may further include a second bit line and a second erase column line. The mFPLA may also include a seventh transistor having a seventh source electrode coupled to the second erase column line a seventh drain electrode and a seventh gate electrode coupled to the block select line. An eighth transistor having an eighth source electrode coupled to the second bit line an eighth drain electrode and an eighth gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. A fifth micro electromechanical element having a seventh contact electrode coupled with the eighth drain electrode and the first rocker electrode a fifth pull in electrode a fifth pull up electrode coupled with the seventh drain electrode and a fifth cantilever electrode coupled to the second rocker electrode and movable between a position in contact with the seventh contact electrode and a position spaced form the seventh contact electrode may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a sixth micro electromechanical element having an eighth contact electrode a sixth pull in electrode coupled to the first rocker electrode the eighth drain electrode and the seventh contact electrode the sixth micro electromechanical element also having a ninth contact electrode and a third rocker electrode movable between positions in contact with the eighth contact electrode in contact with the ninth contact electrode and spaced from both the eighth contact electrode and the ninth contact electrode.

In there are a plurality of bit lines a plurality of erase column lines a plurality of erase row lines and a plurality of data lines. The erase row lines and the data lines are all parallel to each other and perpendicular to the bit lines and the erase column lines. Similarly the data select line is parallel to the bit lines and the erase column lines but perpendicular to the block select line the erase row lines and the data lines.

The mFPLA may include a second data line and a second erase data line. The mFPLA may also include a fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second data line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the data select line. A sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second erase data line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. A fifth micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode coupled to the fifth drain electrode a fifth pull in electrode a fifth pull up electrode coupled to the sixth drain electrode and a sixth cantilever electrode coupled to the first contact electrode and the first drain electrode the fifth cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the fifth contact electrode and a position spaced from the fifth contact electrode may also be present.

Alternatively the mFPLA may include a second bit line and a second erase column line. The mFPLA may also include a fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second bit line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the block select line. A sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second erase column line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a fifth micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode coupled to the fifth drain electrode a fifth pull in electrode a fifth pull up electrode coupled to the sixth drain electrode and a sixth cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the fifth contact electrode and a position spaced from the fifth contact electrode. A sixth micro electromechanical element having a sixth contact electrode coupled to fifth cantilever electrode a sixth pull in electrode a sixth pull up electrode coupled to the sixth drain electrode and a sixth cantilever electrode movable between a position in contact with the sixth contact electrode and a position spaced form the sixth contact electrode may also be present.

The mFPLA may additionally include a second data line and a second erase data line. The mFPLA may also include a seventh transistor having a seventh source electrode coupled to the second data line a seventh drain electrode and a seventh gate electrode coupled to the data select line. An eighth transistor having an eighth source electrode coupled to the second erase data line an eighth drain electrode and an eighth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a seventh micro electromechanical element having a seventh contact electrode coupled to the seventh drain electrode a seventh pull in electrode a seventh pull up electrode coupled to the eighth drain electrode and a seventh cantilever electrode coupled to the third cantilever electrode first contact electrode and first drain electrode the seventh cantilever electrode movable from a position in contact with the seventh contact electrode and a position spaced form the seventh contact electrode.

In there are a plurality of data lines a plurality of erase data lines a plurality of bit lines a plurality of erase column lines a block select line and a data select line. The bit lines erase column lines and the data select lines are all substantially parallel to each other. Similarly the block select line the data lines and the erase data lines are all substantially parallel to each other. The block select line the data lines and the erase data lines are all substantially perpendicular to the bit lines the erase column lines and the data select line.

For the mFPLA includes a first bit line a first erase column line a first erase row line a first data line a block select line and a data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first transistor having a first source electrode coupled to the first bit line a first drain electrode and a first gate electrode coupled to the block select line. The mFPLA also includes a second transistor having a second source electrode coupled to the erase column line a second drain electrode and a second gate electrode coupled to the block select line. The mFPLA also includes a third transistor having a third source electrode coupled to the first data line a third drain electrode and a third gate electrode coupled to the data select line. The mFPLA also includes a fourth transistor having fourth source electrode coupled to the first erase row line a fourth drain electrode and a fourth gate electrode coupled to the data select line. The mFPLA also includes a first micro electromechanical element having a first contact electrode a second contact electrode coupled to the second drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the first contact electrode a first pull in electrode coupled to the third drain electrode and the first drain electrode and a first rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the first contact electrode a position in contact with the second contact electrode and a position spaced from both the first contact electrode and the second contact electrode. The mFPLA also includes a second micro electromechanical element having a third contact electrode a fourth contact electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the third contact electrode a second pull in electrode coupled to the third drain electrode first pull in electrode and first drain electrode and a second rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the third contact electrode a position in contact with the fourth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the third contact electrode and the fourth contact electrode.

The mFPLA may additionally include a second bit line and a second erase column line. The mFPLA may also include a fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second bit line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the bit select line. A sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second erase column line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the bit select line may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a third micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode a sixth contact electrode coupled to the sixth drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the fifth contact electrode a third pull in electrode coupled to the fifth drain electrode and the second rocker electrode and a third rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the fifth contact electrode a position in contact with the sixth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the fifth contact electrode and the sixth contact electrode. A fourth micro electromechanical element having a seventh contact electrode an eighth contact electrode coupled with the fourth contact electrode and the fourth drain electrode a fourth pull in electrode coupled to the fifth drain electrode and the second rocker electrode and a fourth rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the seventh contact electrode a position in contact with the eighth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the seventh contact electrode and the eighth contact electrode may also be present.

Alternatively the mFPLA may include a second erase row line and a second data line. A fifth transistor having a fifth source electrode coupled to the second data line a fifth drain electrode and a fifth gate electrode coupled to the data select line may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a sixth transistor having a sixth source electrode coupled to the second erase row line a sixth drain electrode and a sixth gate electrode coupled to the data select line. A third micro electromechanical element having a fifth contact electrode a sixth contact electrode disposed in substantially the same plane as the fifth contact electrode and coupled to the first erase column line and the second contact electrode a third pull in electrode coupled to the fifth drain electrode and the first rocker electrode and a third rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the fifth contact electrode a position in contact with the sixth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the fifth contact electrode and the sixth contact electrode may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a fourth micro electromechanical element having a seventh contact electrode an eighth contact electrode coupled to the sixth drain electrode a fourth pull in electrode coupled to the third pull in electrode the first rocker electrode and the fifth drain electrode and a fourth rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the seventh contact electrode a position in contact with the eighth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the seventh contact electrode and the eighth contact electrode.

Additionally the mFPLA may also include a second bit line and a second erase column line. The mFPLA may also include a seventh transistor having a seventh source electrode coupled to the second bit line a seventh drain electrode and a seventh gate electrode coupled to the block select line. An eighth transistor having an eighth source electrode coupled to the second erase column line an eighth drain electrode and an eighth gate electrode coupled to the block select line may also be present. The mFPLA may also include a fifth micro electromechanical element having a ninth contact electrode a tenth contact electrode coupled to the eighth drain electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the ninth contact electrode a fifth pull in electrode coupled with the seventh drain electrode and the second rocker electrode and a fifth rocker electrode coupled with the fourth rocker electrode and movable between a position in contact with the ninth contact electrode a position in contact with the tenth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the ninth contact electrode and the tenth contact electrode. A sixth micro electromechanical element having an eleventh contact electrode a twelfth contact electrode coupled to the fourth drain electrode and the fourth contact electrode and disposed in substantially the same plane as the eleventh contact electrode a sixth pull in electrode coupled to the seventh drain electrode and the second rocker electrode and a sixth rocker electrode movable between a position in contact with the eleventh contact electrode a position in contact with the twelfth contact electrode and a position spaced from both the eleventh contact electrode and the twelfth contact electrode may also be present.

In there are a plurality of bit lines a plurality of erase column lines a plurality or erase row lines a plurality of data lines a data select line and a block select line. The data lines the erase row lines and the block select line are all substantially parallel to each other. The bit lines the erase column lines and the data select line are all substantially parallel to each other. The bit lines the erase column lines and the data select line are all substantially perpendicular to the data lines the erase row lines and the block select line.

By utilizing MEMS devices logic devices such as FPLAs NAND nvSRAM and AMS chips may be fabricated utilizing less chip space without affecting front end of the line FEOL processes.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

