---

title: Displaying images interesting to a user
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for displaying images in a user's online page, such as to provide an engaging and interesting user experience. A subset of one or more images is identified from a set that comprises user accessible images. Images for the subset are identified selecting one or more images from the set of user accessible images that meet a desired user interest threshold. The subset of selected images is then loaded onto the user's online page, such as an online service landing page, in an arrangement (e.g., slide show) of the images.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588992&OS=09588992&RS=09588992
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09588992
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
In a computing environment online services are available where users can upload or link to documents files images applications and more in a combined service hosted by a site. Typically users are able to customize the landing page start page or homepage for these online service sites to comprise interesting and or engaging information for the user. Often users include images video and other media in their online experience including customizing their landing pages. For example a user may find an interesting image or video while browsing online and link or embed the image on their landing page or some other page used for their online activities.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

When a user utilizes an online service that may aggregate services such as online storage image management document management news feeds social networking they can typically personally customize the pages viewed by the user. For example a user homepage can be customized with desired news feeds interesting images or image feeds social network updates email accounts and many other components applications or widgets offered by the online service. In particular a user may utilize an online service that manages images for the user.

For example the user can collect images e.g. take pictures download pictures receive pictures captures video stills etc. upload them or link them to the service and manage them in a manner desired by the user. The user can select favorites to display add interesting information to the image arrange them in presentations store them in organized folders upload new images and send and receive other images. Often the user views or presents images that have a particular interest to the user such as newly taken or received pictures images having interesting subjects images that are trending popular online and more.

However current online services merely present images for display such as when the user opens their online service page e.g. landing page for the service based a time they are taken or randomly unless the user actually performs an action to designate an interesting image. When a user opens their landing page for an online image management service where they share and consume images they may wish to have a more engaging aesthetically pleasing and interesting presentation. Further current techniques merely provide for rotating or iterating a preselected number of images through a display presentation e.g. where the images are chosen randomly or according to some default or user defined order such as by time taken etc. .

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for providing a more engaging and interesting presentation of images to the user for example when they open their landing page for an online service e.g. image management service . The techniques and systems described herein can provided a personal summary view of what may be going on with the user s images images friends and connections have uploaded and other interesting images gleaned online for example. For example a slide show presentation of images that are of particular interest to the user can be presented upon opening the landing page in the user s browser.

In one embodiment for displaying images in a user s online page a subset of one or more images can be identified from a set of user accessible images. Identifying the subset can comprises selecting one or more images from the set that meet a desired user interest threshold e.g. as determined by the user s online and local interactions and preferences . After selecting a subset an arrangement e.g. slide show of the images in the subset can be loaded to the user s online page for example comprising at least some of the images in the subset.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that can provide for a more rich engaging and aesthetically pleasing entry point into a user s online page for example when viewing or interacting with their own content. is a flow diagram of an exemplary method for displaying images in a user s online page. The exemplary method begins at and involves identifying a subset of one or more images from a set of user accessible images at . The identifying of the subset of selected images comprises selecting one or more images from the set of user accessible images that meet a desired user interest threshold.

An online user e.g. accessing the Internet can upload images from a variety of sources to a variety of online locations. For example the user may have images locally stored e.g. stored on a hard drive in or attached to their computer or stored on network storage connected to the client that comprise images taken by the user or others downloaded from the internet and or received by third parties. Further the user may utilize one or more online storage sites social networking sites image collection sites to store and or manage images. Additionally images can be retrieved from a plurality of locations online such as by performing image searches using a search engine browsing and selecting images online or peer to peer networking for example.

While there are an almost unlimited number of images accessible to the user not all of the images accessible to the user may be of interest to the user. Therefore in order to provide a more engaging experience for the user for example merely a subset of the set of accessible images can be selected as in of . In one embodiment identifying the subset of one or more images can comprise comparing metadata from images in the set of user accessible images with potential user interests.

Some image files contain metadata that can be read for example to determine features of the image. A digital photograph or video still may contain metadata that can be read for example to determine a make and model of a camera used to capture the image properties of the image e.g. exposure lens type etc. geotag data that identifies a location of the image subject and metadata that is written to the image file such as by the user or a third party. Metadata can be written into a digital image file to identify for example who owns the image copyright information contact information and descriptive information such as keywords about the photo. In one embodiment the metadata can make the file searchable on a computer and or the Internet. Some metadata may be written to the file by the image capture device while some metadata can be input by the photographer user a third party and or image management software.

Further some image files can comprise title tags or alt tags. In general these tags can define a piece of text that is associated with the image which may be displayed instead of alternately or concurrently with an image when the image is interacted with e.g. mouseover event . Often these types of image tags comprise descriptive information about the image for example so that when a user views the image the text can give them some context. As an example when a user moves their cursor over a picture of a mountain the title or alt tag may display the text Mount Fuji in summer thereby giving the user information about the image.

In one embodiment the metadata that comprises descriptive information for respective images in the set of user accessible images can be identified and or image tags can be identified from respective images in the set of user accessible images. In this embodiment the descriptive information identified from the metadata and or the image tags can be compared against potential user interests. As an example those images that have descriptive information that match the potential user interests may be selected for the subset. In this example the desired threshold may comprise matching a piece of descriptive information with a potential interest such as the user having a friend in their social network e.g. a user interest and an image having descriptive information matching the friend s name.

At in the exemplary method an arrangement e.g. slide show of the images in the subset is loaded to the user s online page. For example as illustrated in an example embodiment of the user may utilize a browser to navigate to the user s online page . As an illustrative example the user s online page may be hosted by a website that serves as online suite of collective services applications and or storage solutions for users. For example one of the services may comprise a user media management service where users can upload and store images videos etc. view the stored media compile arrangements and share with other users or online services.

By way of example turning to the example embodiment of when the user s online page is loaded to the browser e.g. the user opens the user s online page a slide show presentation comprising the subset of selected images can be loaded to the page. In this example the slide show can comprise a primary image displayed prominently and a collection of smaller e.g. thumbnail images that comprise at least a portion of the slide show of the subset of images. In one embodiment the primary image e.g. can be larger than other images e.g. displayed from the subset. In one embodiment the primary image can comprise an image from the subset that has a highest level of user interest associated with the image e.g. more tags match more user interests . In another embodiment the primary image can comprise a randomly chosen image from the subset.

At the user s search related information can be gathered. Search related information can comprise keywords events people activities topics and or other things the user enters into search queries e.g. in a search engine . Further information about results from searches that the user selects and interacts with for example can be used as user interest information. As an example a user may regularly search for information about Elvis Presley and Memphis Tenn. Then the user may select webpages maps etc. from the returned results. This information can provide the database with a user interest about these topics.

At user preferences can be gathered. For example user may input preferences about particular areas of interest and or preferences about particular images such as at the website hosting the user s online page. As an illustrative example the user may indicate that they wish to see or do not wish to see pictures of a particular type topic depiction size scope or other descriptive value e.g. no cats no images smaller than a b pixels only portrait view more buildings more night images fewer people etc. .

At user interests that have been input by the user can be gathered. In one embodiment the website hosting the page and or other websites accessed by the user may provide a means for inputting their interests. For example websites that are repeatedly visited by the user e.g. the user s online start page or those that attempt to create a profile for the user often provide a way for users to input their interests such as movies actors TV shows people music and much more. Further the websites often provide a way for the users to input their locations e.g. residence and or current location preferred places to visit see places they have previously lived worked or visited and more. These user input interests can be gathered and compiled for the database of user interests.

At user interests may be compiled from the user s online activities. For example the websites that the user visits can be tracked and information associated with these sites can be identified as potential user interests. For example if a user frequents a recipe website goes to online gaming sites forums about fishing online stores that sell bike parts or chats online at Russian speaking sites. This information can be used to identify potential user interests.

Further at information from the user s online social networking can be used to identify potential user interests. For example users of online social networking typically identify friends contacts trending interests e.g. what they are currently interested in videos images news likes dislikes groups games and or other things that are of particular interest to the user when interacting on one or more of the social networking sites. Additionally connections to the user in one or more social networking sites may provide access to items of interest of the user which the user may view interact with or indicate an interest in e.g. like . This information may be used to identify potential user interests.

In one embodiment at least some of these potential user interests can be identified gathered and or compiled to the database. In the example embodiment the database can comprise a plurality of user interests such as identified by from the plurality of online information associated with the user from and or .

At in the example embodiment an index of user accessible images can be compiled. As described above user accessible images can comprise an almost unlimited number of images which can come from a variety of locations. In one embodiment compiling the index of user accessible images can comprise identifying locations of the images e.g. storage address network location URL etc. and storing the locations in a database that indexes the images. In this way for example storing a way to find the images e.g. address map etc. can be far less costly e.g. at least in terms of memory utilization in storage resources than storing the actual image.

At user accessible images can be identified from online sources. For example images can be found on search engine sites image collection sites news sites and or many other websites that use images. At user accessible images can be identified from a network connected to the user. For example the user may be connected to a local area network storage area network or some other network where images are stored distributed and or used in some other way where access to the images is provided to the user.

At images that are accessible to the user through the user s contacts may be identified. For example the user may have connections on their social networks other online sites and or in their address books where the contacts provide access to their own images. Often a connection to the user uploads images to their own online profile or storage location so that the user and other connections can view comment on and or download the image. Further at the user may store images locally such as on their computer or an attached hard drive. In this embodiment all or some of these images may be accessible to the user and used to compile the index of user accessible images .

In one aspect the information utilized for user interests and or for user accessible images can be identified in a manner that respects and or protects the user s privacy. In one embodiment the information that identifies user interests can be retrieved without any particular user identifiable information e.g. personal information that may reveal the user s identity . Further in one embodiment the information may be retrieved without revealing any of the user s personal security information e.g. SSN account numbers passwords etc. . Additionally in one embodiment the user may be able to block access to desired information and or manage settings that allow access into some areas and not others for example. In this way for example the user can choose a desired manner for enabling an image presentation experience.

As an illustrative example the user may indentify particular connections e.g. on social networks as favorites thereby increasing their online connectivity level. As another example the user may recently have been searching for information about Ireland e.g. when planning a trip therefore in this example the online connectivity level for Ireland may temporarily increase during the searching period. As another example the user may have recently uploaded a number of pictures to their online image management service. In this example a closeness to the present time may increase the online connectivity such as to allow fresh content e.g. images to be presented. Further as an example a user that goes online to play a particular game may increase an interest linked to that game the longer they are participating.

In one embodiment the amount of online connectivity can be correlated to the ranking for the interest thereby resulting in a database of ranked user interests for example. For example a particular interest having a highest online connectivity level may comprise the highest ranked user interest. That is in this example if the user visits sites and searches related to Ireland more than anything else Ireland may have a highest ranking as a potential user interest at that time e.g. where such rankings may change over time . It will be appreciated that the techniques described herein for online connectivity levels are not limited to the example described above. It is anticipated that those skilled in the art may devise alternate techniques for measuring online connectivity levels which may comprise for example a combination of various connectivity events online.

At information from the metadata and or image tags can be retrieved from the user accessible images . As described above images can comprise a plurality of information that is descriptive of the image. For example the metadata may describe the subjects locations and or type of image. As an illustrative example when uploading an image to an online service the user may write type in the names of the people in the photo along with what was going on at the time. Further in this example a geotag can identify the location and metadata can identify a time and type of photo. The image metadata can be retrieved for at least some or all of the accessible images and in one embodiment stored or indexed in the database in association with the corresponding image.

At the metadata can be matched with one or more ranked user interests such as to identify the subset of images as described above. In one embodiment a first subset of image may be selected where the metadata associated with the respective images in the first subset matches at least one potential user interest within a desired ranking range. That is for example a desired range may comprise the user s top ten interests from the ranked interests . In this embodiment the first subset can comprise merely those images having metadata that matches one of the top ten interests for example.

In another embodiment a first subset of image may be selected where the metadata associated with respective images in the first subset matches a desired number of potential user interests. That is for example a desired number of interests may comprise a particular number such as at least two. In this example those images that have metadata that match at least two user interests can be selected for the first subset of images.

Further in one embodiment when identifying the subset of one or more images from the set of user accessible images a second subset of images can be selected from the first subset. In this embodiment identifying images for the second subset can comprise selecting one or more images from the first subset that meet the desired user interest threshold.

In one embodiment selecting one or more images from the set that meet the desired user interest threshold can comprise combining a potential user interest rank with a number of matched potential user interests for the metadata from respective images in the set. For example a particular image may comprise metadata that matches merely one user interest that is ranked at number three. Further a second image may comprise metadata that matches two user interests ranked five and six. In this embodiment the combined ranking of the second image may yield a preferable result e.g. higher overall ranking than that of the first image. Additionally in this embodiment a desired number of images from the set can be selected that meet the desired threshold for the combination of potential user interest rank with a number of matched potential user interests for the metadata. That is the combined ranking result can be compared against a combined ranking result threshold to yield preferred selection criteria.

At in the example embodiment the selection of images can be run through a probability predictor e.g. a probability algorithm to determine a probability of user interest in a particular image. In one embodiment selecting one or more images from the set that meet a desired user interest threshold can comprise determining a user interest probability for respective images in the set and selecting merely those images that meet a desired user interest probability.

In one embodiment the user interest probability can be determined for respective images in the set until a desired number of images are selected for the subset. For example the user may merely wish for a particular number of images to be comprised in the slide show. In this embodiment for example the user interest probability can be determined and compared against the probability threshold for images in the set and when the desired number is reached with those images that meet the threshold the probability determination can be concluded e.g. remaining images in the set are not considered at that time . Additionally when an insufficient number of images are selected the user interest probability may be reduced so that more images meet the threshold. Similarly the interest probability may be increased to reduce the number of images selected.

At the images selected such as in the subset are loaded to the user s online page based on the probability. In one embodiment the subset of images selected for presentation on the user s online page can be updated regularly or on an ongoing basis. For example as the user s interests change e.g. new friends more recent images uploaded news new plans or projects the ranking and or probability used to select the images can change. Further the set of user accessible images can also change over time. For example images may no longer be available online connections to others may be lost and or the user may delete some images from their local storage. In this embodiment one or more of the techniques described herein or portions thereof can be used to constantly or at desired intervals change the presented slide show for example by changing the images and or the order of presentation.

A system may be devised that can provide for a more rich engaging and aesthetically pleasing entry point into a user s online page for example when viewing or interacting with their own content. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for displaying images in a user s online page. A processor processes data for the system and an image identification component is operably coupled with the processor. The image identification component selects one or more images that meet a desired user interest threshold from images that are accessible to the user e.g. locally remotely online etc. . An image loading component is operably coupled with the image identification component . The image loading component loads the selected images to the user s online page in an arrangement.

In this embodiment the image identification component can compare metadata from the user accessible images with the index of potential user interests in the database to identify one or more potentially interesting images . For example the image identification component can attempt to match one or more user interests with one or more images and if a match is found select the image to display on the user s online page if it meets the desired threshold. Alternately the matching may comprise meeting the desired threshold for example where the desired threshold comprises a number of interests matching a number of metadata tag based information for the image.

In this embodiment the user accessible images can comprise images from a plurality of sources the user s local machine e.g. hard drive stored remotely by the user e.g. in an online storage service from connections in the user s social network e.g. online social network comprising uploaded photos from a database of images such as networked or remote database e.g. from search engine and or image compilation and or from other online sources. It will be appreciated that user accessible images can comprise any image that may be retrieved for display to the user. That is for example on some occasions the user may not actually be able to retrieve a particular image to their local machine but the image may be available for remote viewing online e.g. due to copyright access or other issues .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

