---

title: Methods and systems for providing enhanced content by way of a virtual channel
abstract: Exemplary methods and systems for providing enhanced content by way of a virtual channel are disclosed herein. An exemplary method includes a service provider subsystem providing a virtual channel, associating the virtual channel with a content provider, receiving enhanced content to be provided by way of the virtual channel from the content provider, associating one or more selectable triggers with the virtual channel, and providing a user with access to the enhanced content in response to a selection by the user of one of the one or more selectable triggers. Corresponding methods and systems are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106873&OS=09106873&RS=09106873
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09106873
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100401
---
As media content distribution and processing technologies have advanced media outlets through which advertisements are distributed have increased both in number and type. The increased number and type of media outlets have provided a variety of platforms that may be used by advertisers to distribute advertisement content to potential consumers. For example set top box devices and other media content access devices are often capable of receiving and or delivering advertisement content to users. The delivered advertisement content may be associated with one of a variety of products for sale. For example an advertisement may promote a media content instance such as a pay per view event a video on demand program a movie music and or any other type of media content instance that is available for purchase.

However it is sometimes difficult to generate user interest in an advertised product through traditional advertisements. This is due at least in part to various limitations associated with traditional advertisements. For example traditional broadcast advertisements are limited to a relatively short amount of time to generate user interest in a product being advertised. Hence alternative approaches to promoting and incentivizing the purchase of advertised products are desirable.

Exemplary methods and systems for providing enhanced content by way of a virtual channel are described herein. As described further below one or more of the exemplary systems and or methods disclosed herein may enable a vendor to engage potential consumers and generate consumer interest in a promoted product with increased effectiveness through the use of virtual channels and enhanced content. Additionally one or more of the exemplary systems and or methods disclosed herein may allow interactive content associated with a promoted product to be selectively launched or otherwise accessed by potential customers e.g. users of media content access devices thus providing the potential customers with the ability to explore content associated with the promoted product at their leisure.

In some examples a service provider subsystem may be configured to provide a virtual channel and associate the virtual channel with a content provider e.g. a vendor advertiser etc. . The service provider subsystem may receive enhanced content from the content provider to be provided by way of the virtual channel. The service provider subsystem may also associate one or more selectable triggers with the virtual channel. In response to a selection by a user of one of the one or more selectable triggers the service provider subsystem may provide the user with access to the enhanced content by way of the virtual channel. By providing enhanced content accessible by way of a virtual channel a vendor may avoid customary limitations associated with traditional advertisements and generate greater interest in a promoted product more efficiently and in a more cost effective manner.

As used herein a promoted product also referred to herein as an advertised product or simply a product may refer to any media content instance good service information campaign or other tangible or intangible product being promoted and or advertised. For example a promoted product may include a movie available in theatres and or on demand an automobile a political campaign and or any other product as may serve a particular implementation.

As used herein an advertisement may include any information and or media content configured to generate user interest in a product. Exemplary advertisements may include without limitation linear advertisements on demand advertisements e.g. video on demand VOD advertisements interactive advertisements banner advertisements application insertion advertisements and content portal advertisements. Linear advertisements may include traditional commercials e.g. thirty second spots presented during a media content broadcast. On demand advertisements may include advertisements housed within an on demand system e.g. one or more on demand content servers such as VOD ads housed within one or more VOD servers. Interactive advertisements may include any advertisements with which a user may interact. Banner advertisements may include any advertisements that may be spatially placed within a display view provided to a user. Banner advertisements may include static and or clickable banner ads. Application insertion advertisements may include advertisements that may be inserted within an application such as a video game application provided by a media outlet. The advertisement types described above are illustrative only. Other advertisement types and or combinations of advertisement types may be used in other embodiments.

As used herein media content may refer generally to any content accessible via an access subsystem. The term media content instance will be used herein to refer to any television program on demand media program e.g. video on demand program pay per view event broadcast media program e.g. broadcast television program multicast media program narrowcast media program advertisement IPTV media content video movie song video game text images or combination of these or other forms of media content that may be viewed or otherwise experienced by a user.

As used herein a virtual channel refers to any interactive channel by which enhanced content associated with a promoted product may be presented to a user of a media content access subsystem. In some examples a virtual channel may be implemented by an Internet Protocol IP channel associated with a television subscription service.

As used herein enhanced content refers to any content configured to generate user interest in a promoted product. For example enhanced content may include but is not limited to interactive content associated with the promoted product social networking content associated with the promoted product Internet based content associated with the promoted product content associated with personnel associated with the promoted product rating review content associated with the promoted product activities associated with the promoted product one or more advertisements for the promoted product or any related products content associated with dealers retailers of the promoted product and or any other content associated with the promoted product that may be accessed by a user. Specific examples of enhanced content will be described in more detail below.

Media content provider subsystem may be configured to manage e.g. maintain process distribute and or generate media content e.g. media content programs advertisements etc. configured to be presented to one or more users of access subsystem . For example media content provider subsystem may be configured to facilitate creation of advertisement content related to a promoted product. To illustrate a vendor may utilize media content provider subsystem to create one or more advertisements associated with the promoted product. The advertisements may include information and or media content instances promoting the product as well as one or more selectable triggers for accessing the virtual channel. As will be described in more detail below a user may select one of the one or more selectable triggers to access enhanced content associated with the promoted product.

Media content provider subsystem may be further configured to generate maintain and or provide enhanced content to be presented to a user of access subsystem by way of a virtual channel. For example media content provider subsystem may be associated with a vendor desiring to promote a particular product. The vendor may utilize media content provider subsystem to create enhanced content configured to generate user interest in the product. The enhanced content may then be presented to one or more users by way of a virtual channel in accordance with principles described herein.

Service provider subsystem may be configured to provide one or more services configured to facilitate delivery of media content enhanced content and or any other data to access subsystem . For example service provider subsystem may be configured to provide a virtual channel and associate the virtual channel with a content provider e.g. a vendor or an advertiser . As will be described in more detail below service provider subsystem may receive enhanced content from the content provider e.g. using media content provider subsystem to be provided by way of the virtual channel associate one or more selectable triggers with the virtual channel and provide a user with access to the enhanced content in response to a selection by the user of one of the one or more selectable triggers.

Access subsystem may be configured to facilitate access by a user to media content e.g. advertisements media content instances enhanced content and or other data provided by media content provider subsystem and or service provider subsystem . To this end access subsystem may be communicatively coupled to media content provider subsystem by way of the services provided by service provider subsystem .

Components of system may communicate with one another using any suitable communication technologies devices media and protocols supportive of data communications including but not limited to socket connections Ethernet data bus technologies data transmission media communications devices Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS Session Initiation Protocol SIP Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Extensible Mark up Language XML and variations thereof Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Real Time Transport Protocol RTP User Datagram Protocol UDP Global System for Mobile Communications GSM technologies Code Division Multiple Access CDMA technologies Evolution Data Optimized Protocol EVDO Time Division Multiple Access TDMA technologies Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS radio frequency RF signaling technologies wireless communication technologies e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi etc. in band and out of band signaling technologies and other suitable communications technologies.

Components of system may communicate using any suitable network. For example as shown in components of system may be configured to communicate with each other over a network . Network may include one or more networks or types of networks capable of carrying communications and or data signals between the components of system . For example network may include but are not limited to a cable network an optical fiber network a hybrid fiber coax network a wireless network e.g. a Wi Fi and or mobile telephone network a satellite network a wireless broadcast network e.g. a satellite media broadcasting network or terrestrial broadcasting network a subscriber television network a provider specific network e.g. a Verizon FIOS network the Internet an intranet local area network any other suitable network and or any combination or sub combination of these networks.

In some examples although shows components of system communicatively coupled via network it will be recognized that the components of system may be configured to communicate one with another in any other suitable manner e.g. via a direct connection .

While an exemplary system is shown in the exemplary components illustrated in are not intended to be limiting. Other hardware environments and implementations may be used in other implementations. Exemplary components of system will now be described in additional detail.

Media content facility may be configured to manage e.g. maintain process distribute and or generate media content configured to be presented to one or more users of access subsystem . For example media content facility may be configured to create and or deliver advertisements configured to generate user interest in a promoted product. In some examples the advertisements may include and or be associated with one or more selectable triggers configured to facilitate access by a user to enhanced content associated with the promoted product.

To illustrate a vendor may utilize media content facility to generate a television advertisement configured to promote a particular product. At the end of the television advertisement the vendor may include instructions for the user to select a trigger e.g. by pressing one or more input keys on a user input device in order to access enhanced content related to the promoted product. After following the instructions the user may be provided access to the virtual channel and experience enhanced content related to the promoted product.

Enhanced content generation facility may be configured to generate maintain and or provide enhanced content to be presented to a user by way of a virtual channel. The enhanced content may include any of the exemplary enhanced content disclosed herein and may be configured to generate user interest in a promoted product. The enhanced content may be generated maintained and or provided in any suitable manner.

Storage facility may be configured to maintain media content data representative of one or more media content instances and enhanced content data representative of enhanced content. It will be recognized that storage facility may maintain additional or alternative data as may serve a particular implementation.

Virtual channel management facility may be configured to manage e.g. create maintain and or provide access to one or more virtual channels. For example virtual channel management facility may be configured to provide one or more virtual channels and associate the one or more virtual channels with one or more content providers e.g. vendors . To illustrate service provider subsystem may be associated with a service provider e.g. a television subscription service provider that has entered into a lease agreement to lease a virtual channel to a vendor. In this manner the vendor may provide enhanced content associated with a product that the vendor is promoting by way of the virtual channel. The lease may be for a predetermined period of time after which virtual channel management facility may associate the virtual channel with another vendor.

Virtual channel management facility may be further configured to selectively provide a user with access to a virtual channel. To this end virtual channel management facility may be configured to associate one or more selectable triggers with a virtual channel. In response to a selection by a user of a selectable trigger virtual channel management facility may provide the user with access to the virtual channel as will be described in more detail below.

Enhanced content management facility may be configured to receive from a content provider enhanced content to be provided to a user by way of a virtual channel associated with the content provider. The enhanced content may be received from the content provider in any suitable manner. For example the enhanced content may be received from media content provider subsystem .

The enhanced content received by enhanced content management facility may include any of the enhanced content described herein. For example the enhanced content may include social networking content e.g. chat rooms message boards and or links to social networking websites such as Facebook Twitter etc. that are associated with a promoted product Internet based content e.g. hyperlinks to online news blogs and or any other Internet based content associated with the promoted product interactive image content associated with the promoted product e.g. slide shows panoramic views magnified views 360 views and or any other images representing the promoted product rating content associated with the promoted product e.g. user ratings of the promoted product features configured to receive user feedback regarding the promoted product that may then be provided to the content provider and or other users critics ratings safety ratings Consumer Reports ratings and or any other ratings associated with the promoted product interactive activities associated with the promoted product e.g. games puzzles and or any other activities associated with the promoted product news and reviews of the promoted product local content e.g. links to local retailers local events local news and or other local content associated with the promoted product and or any other type of content associated with the promoted product as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples the enhanced content may facilitate the purchase of the promoted product and or one or more objects associated with the promoted product. For example various options to purchase the promoted product or objects associated with the promoted product e.g. souvenirs clothing etc. may be presented to a user as enhanced content.

If the promoted product includes a media content instance the enhanced content may additionally or alternatively include content associated with personnel associated with the media content instance e.g. bios interviews and or chats with actors directors producers and or any other personnel associated with the media content instance listings of other media content instances e.g. movies video clips trailers associated with the media content instance one or more scenes included within or otherwise associated with the media content instance e.g. exclusive trailers still shots and or other scenes included within the media content instance alternative or deleted scenes associated with the media content instance production content associated with the media content instance e.g. the enhanced content may provide a user with the ability to view or otherwise access exclusive footage from the production of the media content instance and or to track how the production of the media content instance is progressing one or more platform specific formats of the media content instance e.g. alternative resolution versions of the media content instance suitable for different types of access devices information associated with the media content instance e.g. show times and ticket information and or any other suitable enhanced content associated with the media content instance.

The aforementioned examples of enhanced content are merely illustrative of the many different types of enhanced content that may be associated with a promoted product. It will be recognized that additional or alternative types of enhanced content may be received by enhanced content management facility .

In some examples enhanced content management facility may be configured facilitate interaction by a user with enhanced content by providing an interactive portal. The interactive portal may be displayed by a display device associated with access subsystem e.g. on a display screen of a television on a display screen of a mobile phone device and or on any other display screen as may serve a particular application and may be configured to present enhanced content to the user in a manner specified by the content provider and or service provider subsystem .

Enhanced content management facility may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs configured to facilitate customization of the interactive portal to a content provider associated with the promoted product and or the enhanced content. The content provider may utilize the APIs to provide input configured to customize the interactive portal. For example the content provider may select the enhanced content to be included within the interactive portal modify an appearance of the enhanced content within the interactive portal and or otherwise customize the interactive portal as may serve a particular application. In this manner the content provider does not have to rely on personnel associated with the service provider subsystem to perform updates to the enhanced content available within the interactive portal.

In some examples the interactive portal may have a fixed layout consistent with a plurality of other interactive portals associated with other virtual channels. In this manner although content providers may customize the enhanced content included within an interactive portal each interactive portal with which a user interacts may have a consistent look and feel.

Enhanced content management facility may additionally or alternatively be configured to automatically customize enhanced content available by way of a virtual channel. For example enhanced content management facility may automatically select enhanced content presented by way of the virtual channel automatically modify an appearance of the enhanced content within an interactive portal and or otherwise automatically customize the enhanced content in accordance with the associated promoted product a user profile associated with a user and or any other factor as may serve a particular application.

Storage facility may be configured to maintain virtual channel data used by virtual channel management facility to manage one or more virtual channels and enhanced content data representative of enhanced content. It will be recognized that storage facility may maintain additional or alternative data as may serve a particular implementation.

Presentation facility may be configured to present media content and or enhanced content for experiencing by a user. A presentation of media content e.g. an advertisement may be performed in any suitable way such as by generating and or providing output signals representative of the media content and or enhanced content to a display device e.g. a television and or an audio output device.

To illustrate presentation facility may be configured to present an advertisement for a promoted product. The advertisement may be included within a broadcast advertisement stream that is presented to the user. The advertisement may include and or present one or more selectable triggers thereby facilitating a selection by a user of one of the one or more selectable triggers. In some examples presentation facility may be additionally or alternatively configured to present one or more selectable triggers to a user within a listing of virtual channels within a program guide within a menu and or in any other suitable manner.

Enhanced content access facility may be configured to allow a user to access enhanced content by way of one or more virtual channels. For example enhanced content access facility may be configured to receive an input from a user representing a selection of a selectable trigger associated with the virtual channel. In response to the selection by the user of the selectable trigger enhanced content access facility may provide the user with access to enhanced content by way of the virtual channel.

Storage facility may be configured to maintain data associated with presentation facility and or enhanced content access facility . It will be recognized that storage facility may maintain additional or alternative data as may serve a particular implementation.

Access subsystem and or components of access subsystem may be implemented as may suit a particular application. illustrates an exemplary media content access device or simply access device having access subsystem implemented thereon. Access device may include one or more of the components of access subsystem shown in and may be configured to perform one or more of the processes and or operations described herein. Access device may include but is not limited to a set top box device a media content processing device a communications device a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone device a handheld device a personal computer a phone device a personal digital assistant device a gaming device a digital video recording DVR device a television device and or any device configured to perform one or more of the processes and or operations described herein.

As shown in access device may include a communication interface configured to receive media content e.g. advertisements media content instances etc. enhanced content e.g. by way of one or more virtual channels and or other data e.g. metadata program guide data etc. in any acceptable format from media content provider subsystem service provider subsystem and or from any other suitable external source. Communication interface may include any device logic and or other technologies suitable for receiving signals and or data representative of media content and or other types of media content or data. Communication interface may be configured to interface with any suitable communication media protocols and formats including any of those mentioned above.

Access device may also include a receiver configured to receive user input signals from a user input device . User input device may include for example a remote control device or any other suitable input device e.g. a keyboard a mouse a touch screen etc. and may be configured to communicate with receiver via a wireless link electrical connection or any other suitable communication link.

Returning to access device may include a graphics engine and an output driver . Graphics engine may be configured to generate graphics to be provided to output driver which may be configured to interface with or drive a display . Output driver may provide output signals to display the output signals including graphical media content e.g. media content enhanced content program guide media content etc. generated by graphics engine and to be presented by display for experiencing by a user. For example output driver may provide data representative of a graphical user interface GUI including a program guide e.g. an interactive media guide IMG view to display for presentation to the user. Graphics engine and output driver may include any combination of hardware software and or firmware as may serve a particular application.

Data store may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of storage media. For example data store may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc or other non volatile storage unit. Media content and or data associated with media content may be temporarily and or permanently stored in data store .

Data store is shown to be included within access device in for illustrative purposes only. It will be understood that data store may additionally or alternatively be located external to access device .

Data store may include one or more live cache buffers . Live cache buffer may additionally or alternatively reside in memory or in a storage device external to access device . In some examples media content data may be temporarily stored in live cache buffer to facilitate viewing and or recording of the media content.

Access device may include memory . Memory may include but is not limited to FLASH memory random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other suitable computer readable media or any combination or sub combination thereof. In some examples one or more applications configured to run on or otherwise be executed by access device may reside in memory .

Access device may include one or more tuners . Tuner may be configured to selectively receive media content carried on a particular media content carrier channel such that the media content may be processed by access device . In some examples media content received by tuner may be temporarily buffered or stored in the live cache buffer . If there are multiple tuners there may be a live cache buffer corresponding to each of the tuners .

While tuner may be used to receive certain media content carrying signals transmitted by media content provider subsystem and or service provider subsystem access device may be configured to receive other types of media content signals including media content signals and or program guide data signals from media content provider subsystem service provider subsystem and or one or more other sources without using a tuner. For example media content provider subsystem and or service provider subsystem may transmit digital streams of data packets e.g. Internet Protocol IP based data packets that can be received by way of one or more virtual channels without using a tuner. For such types of media content signals communication interface may receive and forward the signals directly to other components of access device e.g. processor or signal processing unit described in more detail below without the signals going through tuner . For an IP based signal for example signal processing unit may function as an IP receiver.

Access device may include at least one processor such as processor configured to control and or perform one or more operations of access device . Access device may also include a signal processing unit configured to process incoming media content. Signal processing unit may be configured for example to demodulate and parse encoded digital media content. In some examples access device may include one or more signal processing units corresponding to each of the tuners .

In some examples media content provider subsystem and or service provider subsystem may be configured to support communication with access subsystem via multiple network platforms. For example a user may utilize multiple access devices each associated with a different network platform to access one or more applications and or media content residing within media content provider subsystem and or service provider subsystem .

In step a virtual channel is provided. The virtual channel may be provided by service provider subsystem in any suitable manner. For example service provider subsystem may provide the virtual channel by creating initiating allocating activating programming providing and or otherwise managing the virtual channel.

In certain examples the virtual channel may be associated with a channel code e.g. a channel number . The channel code may comprise any combination of numbers letters and or symbols. The channel code may be utilized by users to access the virtual channel using access subsystem . In some examples the channel code may comprise a combination of a function key and one or more numbers e.g. a combination of function key C and the number sequence inputted by way of remote control device .

In step the virtual channel may be associated with a content provider. Service provider subsystem may associate the virtual channel with a content provider e.g. a vendor in any suitable manner.

To illustrate the virtual channel may be associated with a vendor desiring to utilize the virtual channel to generate interest in a product being promoted by the vendor. The vendor may enter into a lease agreement with service provider personnel associated with service provider subsystem in which the vendor agrees to lease the virtual channel for a specified time period and a specified price. The virtual channel may then be used by the vendor to present enhanced content associated with the promoted product to one or more users during the specified time period.

As another example a television network e.g. NBC may lease a virtual channel to generate user interest in the network. For example the television network may desire to utilize the virtual channel to promote current or upcoming television programs. Access to the virtual channel may be provided to a user of access subsystem such that the user may experience any enhanced content e.g. television program clips advertisements trailers that the television network decides to provide by way of the virtual channel thereby generating user interest in the network. In some examples the channel code associated with the virtual channel may correspond to the channel code associated with the network e.g. if the network s services are broadcast over channel number the virtual channel code may be C . In additional or alternative examples the virtual channel may be associated with the content provider in any other suitable manner.

In step enhanced content to be provided by way of the virtual channel may be received from the content provider. The enhanced content may be received by service provider subsystem in any of the ways described herein.

In step one or more selectable triggers may be associated with the virtual channel. Service provider subsystem may associate the one or more selectable triggers with the virtual channel in any suitable manner.

As mentioned the one or more selectable triggers may be configured to provide a user with access to the associated virtual channel. To this end the one or more selectable triggers may include channel codes links menu options selectable graphical objects and or any other suitable trigger. The selectable triggers may be provided by way of one or more advertisements options listings program guides menus and or any other suitable manner for delivering and or displaying selectable triggers.

To illustrate a selectable trigger may be included in an advertisement presented to a user. The advertisement may be included for example within a broadcast advertisement stream that is presented to the user by way of access subsystem . For example shows an exemplary advertisement frame that may be included within a visual advertisement presented to a user of access subsystem . As shown in advertisement frame may be configured to promote a movie entitled Tarzan . As shown in advertisement frame the movie is about to be released in theaters.

Advertisement frame may be further configured to display a selectable trigger that directs a viewer of advertisement frame to press a sequence of input buttons on a remote control device or the like in order to access a virtual channel associated with the movie. In some examples selectable trigger may be specific to a particular subscriber television network e.g. the Verizon FIOS network such that only users of the particular subscriber television network may access the virtual channel by pressing the displayed sequence of input buttons. It will be recognized that selectable trigger may be applicable to a user of any subscriber network.

In some alternative examples selectable trigger may include a hyperlink or other trigger that may be selected by a user in order to access enhanced content associated with the movie. Selection of the hyperlink may direct the user to an interactive portal provided by way of a virtual channel by which the user may access enhanced content associated with the movie. In some examples the hyperlink or other enhanced content trigger may be transmitted to access subsystem independent of the broadcast advertisement stream. For example the hyperlink or other enhanced content trigger may be transmitted by way of an IP network or the like.

As shown GUI may include an interactive menu configured to facilitate navigation between and or selection of selectable triggers . Each selectable trigger may be associated with a product being promoted by a vendor. For example selectable trigger may be associated with a movie entitled Tarzan selectable trigger may be associated with a movie entitled Inglorious Bass Masters selectable trigger may be associated with an automobile e.g. provided by Ford and selectable trigger may be associated with a theme park e.g. Disneyland . Although GUI includes four selectable triggers it will be recognized that any number of selectable triggers may be included in GUI as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples selectable triggers may be grouped into categories to facilitate intuitive browsing thereof by a user. For example shows that a listing of groups of selectable triggers may be included in GUI . The groups may allow a user to browse through selectable triggers based on featured virtual channels all virtual channels and or categorized virtual channels. A user may utilize a selection box to navigate through various entries in list and or select a particular selectable trigger . For example a user may position selection box over a desired selectable trigger after which the user may press a select button or the like on a remote control device to access the corresponding virtual channel. To illustrate a user may access a virtual channel associated with Tarzan by positioning selection box over selectable trigger and pressing a select button on a remote control device.

Although GUI includes three selectable triggers it will be recognized that in additional or alternative embodiments GUI may include any number of selectable triggers suitable for a particular implementation. In some examples multiple selectable triggers may be associated with a single program.

The foregoing examples of selectable triggers associated with a virtual channel are merely illustrative of the many different types of selectable triggers that may be provided to a user. Other types of selectable triggers such as links and or triggers available through banner advertisements pop up messages and the like may be presented to the user as may serve a particular implementation.

Returning to in step in response to a selection by the user of one of the one or more selectable triggers provided in step the user may be provided with access to the enhanced content received in step . The user may be provided with access to the enhanced content in any suitable manner as may serve a particular application.

To illustrate show exemplary interactive portals and each providing the user with access to enhanced content associated with the movie Tarzan that may be presented to the user in response to a selection by the user of selectable trigger shown in . Each interactive portal and may correspond to a different time period of a marketing campaign for the movie Tarzan . For example interactive portal may be configured to generate user interest prior to the release of the movie interactive portal may be configured to generate user interest in as well as facilitate purchase of tickets for the movie once the movie is available in theaters and interactive portal may be configured to generate user interest in and facilitate a user s purchase of the movie once the movie is released on DVD and or pay per view. It will be recognized that interactive portals and shown in are merely illustrative of the many different interactive portals and or other virtual channels by which enhanced content associated with a virtual channel may be presented to the user.

As shown in interactive portal may be configured to present various types of enhanced content associated with the movie Tarzan . For example the enhanced content may be organized within a plurality of selectable enhanced content categories a list of which may be displayed within a viewing pane e.g. viewing pane of interactive portal . As shown in exemplary enhanced content categories may include but are not limited to trailers and clips related movies social networking content e.g. chat rooms links to social networking sites cast and crew content content configured to facilitate purchase by the user of the product or related products and or options to send content to a friend e.g. via email .

To access enhanced content included within one of the enhanced content categories a user may position a selection box over the desired category. In response enhanced content included within the selected category may be presented within another viewing pane e.g. viewing pane . For example as shown in selection box may be positioned over an enhanced content category labeled chat room . Hence an interactive chat room is displayed within viewing pane . The user may utilize the interactive chat room to discuss Tarzan with other fans of the movie receive recommendations from other users access user generated content arrange to meet other fans of Tarzan in person and or otherwise interact socially with other users who are interested in the Tarzan movie.

Additional or alternative enhanced content categories may be displayed within interactive portal as may serve a particular application. For example a user and or a vendor may specify which enhanced content categories are displayed within interactive portal . In some examples the enhanced content categories may change over time as specified by the vendor and or user.

Interactive portal shown in may include additional or alternative enhanced content associated with the movie Tarzan and may be presented to a user during a time period in which the movie is available in theaters. The enhanced content included in interactive portal may be organized within enhanced content categories listed in viewing pane . Exemplary enhanced content categories may include but are not limited to trailers and clips information regarding tickets and showtimes including links to purchase tickets and or obtain directions to theaters a chat room casting crew content news and reviews e.g. user and critic ratings of the movie activities or games associated with the movie e.g. trivia games puzzles and or any other interactive activity associated with movie and or content configured to facilitate a user s purchase of products related to the movie.

To access enhanced content included within one of the enhanced content categories a user may position a selection box over the desired category. In response enhanced content included within the selected category may be presented within another viewing pane e.g. viewing pane . For example as shown in selection box is positioned over an enhanced content category labeled Tickets Showtimes . Hence a listing of information including theaters showing the movie showtimes links to purchase tickets and or links to obtain directions to the theaters may be displayed within viewing pane . A user may utilize the enhanced content to determine where and when to watch the movie to purchase tickets for the movie and or to obtain directions to the desired theater.

Interactive portal shown in may include additional or alternative enhanced content associated with the movie Tarzan and may be presented to a user once the movie is released on DVD and or pay per view. For example interactive portal may include the same enhanced content as interactive portal as well as a watch on demand option . Option may be positioned in viewing pane for example and may be selected by a user to view the movie in viewing pane . Interactive portal may also include media content controls configured to allow a user to navigate through and control the display of the movie e.g. fast forward through the movie change resolutions of the movie etc. .

In some examples system may be configured to provide access to enhanced content associated with a purchased media content instance e.g. a purchased pay per view movie concurrently with a presentation of the media content instance by access subsystem . For example a user may select the Games category shown in to participate in an interactive game associated with Tarzan while the movie is being presented to the user. In response the interactive game may be displayed within viewing pane or an additional viewing pane while Tarzan is presented in viewing pane . In some examples a user participating in a game may desire to invite one or more additional users to participate in e.g. join the interactive game. To this end the user may select one or more friends or other users who have purchased access to Tarzan to invite to participate in the interactive game.

Although interactive portals and are configured to generate user interest in a movie principles described herein may be utilized to promote and or generate user interest in any other product as may serve a particular application.

For example illustrates an exemplary interactive portal that may be presented to a user and that is configured to generate user interest in an automobile e.g. an automobile offered by Ford . A user may be directed to interactive portal upon selecting a corresponding selectable trigger e.g. as instructed in a broadcast advertisement advertising the automobile . Interactive portal may be configured to present various types of enhanced content associated with the promoted product. The enhanced content may be organized into enhanced content categories and displayed within viewing pane . As shown in exemplary enhanced content categories may include video clips of the promoted product specifications of the promoted product images of the promoted product e.g. 360 views of the promoted product ratings e.g. safety ratings of the promoted product news and reviews e.g. critic reviews user reviews etc. related to the promoted product content configured to allow a user to personally configure and or purchase the promoted product content configured to direct the user to a retailer e.g. dealer of the promoted product and or social networking content e.g. chat rooms links to social networking sites .

A user may utilize a selection box to select one of the enhanced content categories to be accessed and or displayed through another viewing pane e.g. viewing pane . To illustrate a user may position selection box over the enhanced content category labeled 360 Views to view images e.g. three dimensional images of the automobile. The user may then view and interact with the images in viewing pane to determine whether the user is interested in purchasing the automobile. If so the user may select the enhanced content category labeled Build Your Ford to customize the automobile to his her liking and or select the enhanced content category labeled Find a Dealer to be directed to a dealer where the user can purchase the automobile.

In step a virtual channel may be associated with a vendor of a promoted product. The virtual channel may be associated with the vendor in any of the ways described herein.

In step data representative of enhanced content to be provided by way of the virtual channel is received from the vendor. The data representative of the enhanced content may be received in any of the ways described herein.

In step one or more selectable triggers are associated with the virtual channel the one or more selectable triggers comprising a virtual channel code. The one or more selectable triggers may be associated with the virtual channel in any of the ways described herein.

In step data representative of an advertisement for the promoted product is delivered to a user the advertisement comprising a display of the virtual channel code. The advertisement may be delivered to the user in any of the ways described herein.

In step the user may be provided with access to the enhanced content in response to input by the user of the virtual channel code by way of a user input device. Access to the enhanced content may be provided to the user in any of the ways described herein.

In certain embodiments one or more of the components and or processes described herein may be implemented and or performed by one or more appropriately configured computing devices. To this end one or more of the systems and or components described above may include or be implemented by any computer hardware and or computer implemented instructions e.g. software embodied on a computer readable medium or combinations of tangibly embodied computer implemented instructions and hardware configured to perform one or more of the processes described herein. In particular system components may be implemented on one physical computing device or may be implemented on more than one physical computing device. Accordingly system components may include any number of computing devices and may employ any of a number of computer operating systems.

In certain embodiments one or more of the processes described herein may be implemented at least in part as instructions executable by one or more computing devices. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions from a tangible computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. and executes those instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions may be stored and or transmitted using any of a variety of known computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other tangible medium from which a computer can read.

Communication interface may be configured to communicate with one or more computing devices. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection between content provider subsystem service provider subsystem and or access subsystem via a direct link to a network such as network of . Communication interface may additionally or alternatively provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a satellite data connection a dedicated URL or any other suitable connection. Communication interface may be configured to interface with any suitable communication media protocols and formats including any of those mentioned above.

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting executing and or directing execution of one or more of the instructions processes and or operations described herein. Processor may direct execution of operations in accordance with one or more applications or other computer executable instructions such as may be stored in storage device or another computer readable medium.

Storage device may include one or more data storage media devices or configurations and may employ any type form and combination of data storage media and or device. For example storage device may include but is not limited to a hard drive network drive flash drive magnetic disc optical disc random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM other non volatile and or volatile data storage units or a combination or sub combination thereof. Electronic data including data described herein may be temporarily and or permanently stored in storage device . For example data representative of one or more executable applications which may include but are not limited to one or more of the software applications described herein configured to direct processor to perform any of the operations described herein may be stored within storage device . In some examples data may be arranged in one or more databases residing within storage device .

I O module may be configured to receive user input and provide user output and may include any hardware firmware software or combination thereof supportive of input and output capabilities. For example I O module may include hardware and or software for capturing user input including but not limited to a keyboard or keypad a touch screen component e.g. touch screen display a receiver e.g. an RF or infrared receiver and or one or more input buttons.

I O module may include one or more devices for presenting output to a user including but not limited to a graphics engine a display e.g. a display screen one or more output drivers e.g. display drivers one or more audio speakers and one or more audio drivers. In certain embodiments I O module is configured to provide graphical data to a display for presentation to a user. The graphical data may be representative of one or more graphical user interfaces and or any other graphical content as may serve a particular implementation.

In some examples any of the facilities described herein may be implemented by or within one or more components of computing device . For example one or more applications residing within storage device may be configured to direct processor to perform one or more processes or functions associated with media content facility enhanced content generation facility virtual channel management facility enhanced content management facility presentation facility and or enhanced content access facility . Likewise storage facility storage facility and or storage facility may be implemented by or within storage device .

The components of system may be implemented by computing device or a combination of computing devices such as a media content processing device a server device e.g. an application server video server web server etc. office equipment a set top box a communications device a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone device a handheld device a personal computer a phone device a personal digital assistant device a gaming device a digital video recording DVR device e.g. a personal video recording PVR device a television device and or any media content access and or distribution device configured to perform one or more of the advertising platform processes and or operations described herein.

In the preceding description various exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. For example certain features of one embodiment described herein may be combined with or substituted for features of another embodiment described herein. The description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

