---

title: Dynamic proximity based text exchange within a group session
abstract: A text exchange associated with a distance value n can be received. The text exchange can be conveyed by a text exchange application which can be linked to a group session. The group session can comprise of one or more participants each associated with a proximity value m. The text exchange can be a real-time text based communication between one or more computing devices. A participant can be determined to receive the text exchange based on the distance value of the text exchange and the proximity value associated with the participant. The text exchange can be communicated to a computing device utilized by the participant when the proximity value is equivalent to the distance value. The text exchange can be presented in a visually and/or aurally distinct manner within an interface of the text exchange application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08490003&OS=08490003&RS=08490003
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08490003
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101203
---
The present invention relates to real time text based communications e.g. instant messaging and chat and more particularly to dynamic proximity based text exchanges or messaging within a group session.

A number of different forms of real time text based communication techniques exist such as instant messaging chat mobile text messaging and the like. Some of these text exchange technologies permit group sessions where three or more people can concurrently exchange text in real time. Additionally some of these text exchange technologies permit an exchange of video voice and other forms of communication in addition to text. Throughout the disclosure the term text exchange and group text exchange has been used to generically refer to the real time exchange of text using any of a variety of specific technologies chat based technologies instant messaging technologies mobile text messaging technologies etc. In places where specific examples are given specific types of text exchanges have been referenced but it should be understood that those examples are non limiting and that other forms of text exchange communication can be substituted for those examples.

Traditional real time text exchange text exchange chat etc. tools available in market today support a one to one sessions as well as multi person or group sessions. Group sessions allow people to have text based conversations with multiple people simultaneously. Some applications allow passive participation where a user can be added as observer such that the user can only view the exchanged text messages but cannot participate e.g. send messages . In all cases messages from any participant within a group are broadcast to all other participants of the text exchange session e.g. every participants can view every message that another participant sends out .

Many times during a group text exchange session participants prefer to communicate some messages to a subset of the participants e.g. observers team members associated with the group. For instance a moderator of a group session cannot have a private discussion with a sub group of participants easily. Currently available chat tools require a user to start a new communication session with the intended set of two or more communicators. This creates additional overhead on the user as well as the server e.g. additional chat or text exchange session . Frequently the user can lose context when switching between multiple sessions. Further users are prone to using the wrong session s communication interface and sending a message to unintended recipients.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a text exchange associated with a distance value n can be received. The text exchange can be conveyed by a text exchange application which can be linked to a group session. The group session can include one or more participants each associated with a proximity value m. The text exchange can be a real time text based communication between one or more computing devices. A participant can be determined to receive the text exchange based on the distance value of the text exchange and the proximity value associated with the participant. The text exchange can be communicated to a computing device utilized by the participant when the proximity value is equivalent to the distance value. The text exchange can be presented in a visually and or aurally distinct manner within an interface of the text exchange application.

The present disclosure is a solution for dynamic proximity based text exchange within a group session. In the solution participants within a group session e.g. group text exchange can be assigned proximity values e.g. integer value . In one instance the proximity values can be linked to real world relationships. Relationships can include but is not limited to physical distance between participants geographic location presence information metrics security permissions and the like. Distance values can be utilized to permit selected text exchanges to be conveyed to one or more sub group of participants of the group session. In one embodiment a moderator of a group session can private exchange any participant e.g. private conversation and or participants within the group session by utilizing a distance value. For instance a text exchange with a distance value of three can be conveyed to each participant associated with the proximity value of three or less. That is the solution can enable real world conversational scenarios to occur where a participant close to a speaker can hear the speaker but a participant further away from the speaker cannot. In one embodiment the solution can also represent a bandwidth conservative fashion for conducting chat communications as distance is a significant factor in network bandwidth consumption. Thus distance dependent actions as described herein can represent a novel bandwidth optimization technique for handling chat and instant messaging traffic.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein a group session can include a set of three or more participants communicating within a text exchange session. A group session can include a semi permanent real time text based communication between three or more participants utilizing multiple computing devices. The group session can be associated with a text exchange application which can execute on a computing device.

As used herein text exchange can include but is not limited to Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Session Initiated Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Application Exchange APEX Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Mobile Instant Message and the like. Text exchange application can include but is not limited to IBM LOTUS SAMETIME GOOGLE TALK and the like.

As used herein distance and proximity values can include real number values which can be programmatically evaluated. In one instance distance and or proximity can include integer values. In another instance distance and or proximity values can include alphanumeric characters words geographic locations presence information metrics security permissions and the like. For simplicity the correlation between proximity and distance can be a one to one correspondence. However it should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited in this regard. Traditional and or proprietary algorithms can be used to determine evaluate proximity and or distance dynamically within a text exchange group session. In one embodiment proximity and or distance values can be computed in real time or near real time.

In one instance proximity values can correspond to traditional proxemics values including but not limited to intimate distance personal distance social distance public distance and the like. For example a scale from one to four can be utilized to distinguish intimate distance e.g. one from public distance e.g. four .

In one embodiment distance values can represent a loudness value commonly associated with speech. For example a scale range from negative one e.g. whisper to positive one e.g. shouting can be used to indicate a participant speaking volume.

It should be noted that the invention can support private exchanges for a single participant e.g. a moderator and or multiple participants. In one embodiment the disclosure can support single participant private exchanges within a group session. In the embodiment only a participant with moderator status can communicate private exchanges to a subgroup of participants within the group session.

In step a text exchange group session is initiated. The session can be initiated by a moderator and or a group session participant. The group session can be a text exchange session which can conform to traditional and or proprietary text exchange conventions. Conventions can include timestamp information user identity user avatar file transfer status toggling international language support video capabilities audio features emoticons and the like. The conventions can be maintained when a text exchange is conveyed as a private exchange to a selected participant of the group session.

In step a proximity value for each participant can be established. The proximity value can be established manually and or automatically based on text exchange application settings user preferences and the like. For example the proximity value for each participant can be determined based on the geographic location of the participant. In one instance a proximity list can be generated to track the proximity value of each participant within the group session. In the instance the proximity list can permit repeated rapid proximity assessment of each participant.

In step a proximate exchange can be received within a text exchange queue. For example the text exchange queue can be a text exchange server message queue. In step a text exchange can be selected from the message queue. The text exchange can be selected based on traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. Mechanisms can include but is not limited to First In First Out FIFO Last In First Out LIFO and the like. In step the distance value of the selected text exchange is determined. The determination can be performed by analyzing text exchange contents. In one embodiment the text exchange can be parsed for user specified notation indicating the distance value of the text exchange. For instance prefixing a text exchange with the notation 3 can set the distance value of the text exchange to be communicated to participants which belong to tier level three technical support. It should be noted a text exchanges communicated to a sub group of participants within the group session can be referred to as private exchange.

In step a participant of the group session is selected. Selection of participant can be performed alphabetically chronologically numerically e.g. by proximity value and the like. In step if the participant is in proximity the method can continue to step else return to step . The distance value of the private exchange can be evaluated against the proximity value associated with the participant. In one instance a direct comparison e.g. integer comparison can be performed to determine if the participant is within proximity.

In step the private exchange can be conveyed to the participant. The private exchange can be presented upon an interface which the participant can view. In one embodiment the text exchange can be presented within a chat window interface visually distinct from a conventional text exchange. For instance the private exchange can be presented in italics indicating the text exchange is not visible to all participants of the group session. In step if more participants are present in the text exchange session the method can return to step else continue to step . In step if there are more text exchanges to deliver the method can proceed to step else continue to step . In step the text exchange group session can be terminated.

Steps can be performed for each participant within the group session until each appropriate participant receives a copy of the proximate exchange e.g. as a private exchange . Steps can be performed continuously throughout the lifetime of the group session. Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment the disclosure can support contextual settings. A context can be a mechanism which can permit multiple proximity values to be assigned to participants based on one or more criteria. Criteria can include but is not limited to participant relationships group session settings and the like. Context can include but is not limited to organizational hierarchies e.g. enterprise hierarchy social structures e.g. social networks and the like. It should be appreciated proximity values and or distance values can include negative values which can be useful for distinguishing contexts.

It should be appreciated that a private exchange can be associated with one or more artifacts including audio video documents and the like. For example method can be permit a file to be transferred to a sub group of participants within the group session.

Interface can be a chat window of a text exchange application with group session capabilities. Interface can comprise of but is not limited to proximity indicator private conversation section section and the like. Interface can include traditional components including but not limited to tabs pull down menus and the like. Interface can support markup language including but not limited to Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML and the like.

Proximity indicator can be one or more visual symbols and or aural indicators. In one instance indicator can be an editable text field permitting rapid modification of participant proximity. In another instance indicator can be a non modifiable text entity For example indicator can be an alphanumeric value such as P denoting a proximity value of one. Indicator can conform to any traditional and or proprietary font face family size color and the like. In one embodiment indicator can be a graphic icon representing different proximity values. In another embodiment indicator can include a color scheme. For example indicator can include familiar color schemes such as green yellow and red representing low proximity medium proximity and high proximity.

Private conversation can be one or more private exchanges between participants of a group session. The private exchanges can be visually and or aurally distinguished from traditional text exchanges in one or more means. In one instance conversation can be partially indented indicating a communication with a sub group. In another instance one or more themes can be associated with conversation including but not limited to visual themes aural themes and the like. Visual themes can include fonting motifs color schemes graphical artifacts and the like. In one embodiment text exchange distance values e.g. 2 can be optionally presented adjacent to private exchanges within the private conversation . It should be appreciated text exchange distance values can be presented for traditional text exchanges but can be omitted to maintain user interface usability e.g. minimalistic interface .

Section can include a traditional user input mechanism for conveying text exchanges within a group session. Section can comprise of a traditional text input field and an actionable user interface button e.g. Send button . In one embodiment the traditional components of section can be utilized to convey private exchanges within group session via a customizable notation. For example a private exchange can be sent to users within close proximity utilizing a slash command notation e.g. p4 . In another embodiment customizable notations can be configured for each group session context and the like. For instance enterprise specific notations can permit existing information technology policies to be implemented.

Section can be a dedicated proximate exchange user input mechanism for conveying private exchanges to participants within a group session. Section can include but is not limited to text input field actionable user interface button distance setting and the like. Input field can be a traditional input text field able to receive user input. Actionable user interface button can be a traditional interface push button which can convey a private exchange entered into the input text field of section . In one instance the actionable user interface button can be distinguished by a label e.g. whisper indicating the text exchange is a private exchange. The distance setting can permit rapid selection of distance values for a private exchange. In one instance distance setting can be configured through a drop down selection box e.g. P .

In interface customization of user interface and or system can be achieved. Interface can comprise of but is not limited to section option and setting . In one instance interface can be a pop up dialog associated with a text exchange chat session e.g. interface . In another instance interface can be presented in response to interaction with a text exchange application configuration option. For example interface can be presented when a user accesses a preference menu entry in a text exchange client.

In section a proximity list for a text exchange session can be presented. Proximity list can present but is not limited to participant identities corresponding proximity value and the like. The proximity list can be organized in a variety of fashions based on user configuration system settings and the like. For example the proximity list can be presented in ascending order of proximity permitting rapid assessment of participant distances. In one instance the proximity list can correspond to a set of participants interacting within a group session of a text exchange.

In another instance the proximity list can correspond to a set of users associated with a contact list of a text exchange application. In one embodiment proximity list within section can be user modifiable allowing facile manipulation of user distances.

Option can be a configuration setting permitting automated assessment and assignment of proximity values to a participant. In one instance option can permit programmatic determination of proximity values for each participant within a group session in progress. In another instance option can allow automatic proximity assignment for users within a contact list of a text exchange application. In one embodiment option can be a checkbox interface element permitting activation and deactivation of option . In the embodiment deactivation of option can trigger historic proximity values to be re associated with appropriate participants. For example user assigned proximity values can be reassigned to participants when option is disabled.

Setting can be a configuration entity permitting themes to be associated with private exchanges and or interface . Themes can include but is not limited to visual themes aural themes and the like. In one embodiment themes can permit customized colorization of text exchanges for each proximity value of a participant. For instance messages from participants with a proximity value of one can be presented in a yellow font color and messages from participants with a proximity value of two can be presented in a blue font color. In one embodiment setting can be a push button interface element permitting configuration of a theme through an interface screen not shown . It should be noted that multiple themes can be supported for each participant group session and the like. It should be appreciated that theme setting can be utilized with persistent chat rooms enabling flexible theme configuration and or templating.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Interface can comprise of traditional and or proprietary interface elements. Interface elements can include but is not limited to radio dialog checkbox push button and the like. Functionality of interface can be a portion of a file menu context menu and the like. Interface can be a graphical user interface text user interface mixed mode interface and the like. It should be appreciated that section can be an optional component of interface . In one instance interface can be associated with audio video interface components such as video conferencing interfaces.

As used herein exchange can be one or more text based exchanges communicated in real time associated with a text exchange application e.g. application . Exchange can comprise of but is not limited to message identifier sender information recipient information thread identifier session identifier message text and the like. Sender and recipient information can be group session participant information including but not limited to a user identity an email address a resource and the like. For instance sender recipient information can conform to a user domain resource syntax e.g. mark ibm.com 1234 .

In one embodiment proximate exchange and or private exchange can conform to an Extensible Markup Language XML stanza associated with an Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP . In one instance proximate exchange can be a groupchat message type and private exchange can be a chat message type of an XMPP protocol. That is server can translate a groupchat type message into one or more chat messages which can be privately conveyed to selected participants within the group session. In one instance message can be a normal message type associated with an XMPP protocol.

As used herein a proximate exchange can be a text exchange associated with a distance value. In one embodiment the distance value can be stored within the To field of the message . In another instance the distance value can stored within a customized tag e.g. . In another instance the proximity value can be stored within the message body e.g. message text of the message . In one embodiment a priority element can be overloaded to store distance information e.g. . A private exchange can be a text exchange associated with a recipient e.g. participant within a group session. For example private exchange can be message associated with multiple recipients Dave Tim.

It should be appreciated that system describes one embodiment of private messaging within a group session. In other embodiments each message e.g. private exchange and traditional text exchange can be associated with a proximity value.

In one embodiment a message queue can be utilized to store incoming proximate exchanges and or outgoing private exchanges. It should be appreciated that the message queue can be an optional component.

Messaging server can be a hardware software component for communicating text exchanges and or private exchanges within a text exchange session . Server can comprise of but is not limited to proximity engine message handler session settings data store and the like. In one instance server can be a component of an IBM LOTUS SAMETIME server. In another instance server can be a component of an instant message service center IMSC within a mobile telephony network.

Proximity engine can be a hardware software component for computing proximity relationships between a participant and a private exchange within a group session of a text exchange. Engine can utilize proximity list to determine which participant is associated with a private exchange. Based on a proximity value associated with a text exchange e.g. text exchange engine can assess relevant participants to which the private exchange can be delivered. For example a text exchange with a proximity value of one can be conveyed to appropriate participants e.g. Dave Tim utilizing proximity information . In one embodiment engine can convey private exchanges to queue upon processing completion. In the embodiment message handler can communicate private exchanges within queue to relevant recipients.

Proximity list can be one or more datasets for establishing the proximity value associated with a participant. List can be dynamic and or static based on system configuration parameters. In one embodiment list can be stored within proximity engine session data settings data store client text exchange application and the like. List can conform to one or more data structures including but not limited to an array an associative array a link list a hash table and the like. In one embodiment list can act as a filtering mechanism permitting proximity filtering to be performed. In the embodiment a filter can be associated with each proximity value permitting text exchanges to be filtered within the existing session.

Message handler can be a hardware software component for receiving and conveying text exchanges and or private exchanges within a group session of a text exchange session. Handler can receive proximate exchange which can be stored within queue as message . Handler can access messages within queue and determine when a message is associated with a proximity value which can be converted into a private exchange. Handler can notify engine when a message within queue requires processing. In one instance notification can include but is not limited to message identity session identifier message hash and the like. Upon notification engine can process appropriate messages.

Session can be a text exchange session associated with a group session. Session can comprise of but is not limited to session identifier session data proximity list session settings user preferences and the like. Session can be associated with text exchange application and or interface . It should be appreciated that session can be managed by server client and the like. In one instance a group session can be utilized for each proximity value associated with the group session. For instance if a group session comprises of five proximity levels e.g. 1 5 five text exchange sessions can be created to track messages for each proximity level.

Session data can be one or more datasets associated with session of a text exchange application . Data can include but is not limited to proximity information participant information network information text exchange client information and the like. Data can be analyzed to determine participant proximity upon initiation of the session . In one embodiment data can be periodically synchronized with proximity information associated with list when modifications occur enabling real time private exchanges to be achieved. For instance as a participant presence information changes e.g. moving closer to a geographic location system can adjust the participant s proximity value in real time or near real time.

Settings can be one or more configuration parameters for establishing and or controlling the behavior of system . Settings can include but is not limited to engine settings handler configuration options text exchange client settings theme settings and the like. Settings can be presented within one or more interfaces including but not limited to interface and the like.

Message queue can be a hardware software entity able to store a traditional text exchange a proximate exchange a private exchange and the like. Message queue can be a traditional and or proprietary text exchange queue. In one embodiment message queue can comprise of but is not limited to a message identifier a distance value a message text a session identifier and the like. Message queue can be one or more data structures including but not limited to a stack a queue a heap and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to store message queue proximity list and the like. Data store can be a component of a Storage Area Network SAN Network Area Storage NAS and the like. Data store can be a Relational Database Management System RDBMS Object Oriented Database Management System OODBMS and the like.

Client can be a hardware software computing entity able to establish a group session with two or more computing entities. Client can include but is not limited to text exchange application interface and the like. Client can be a desktop computer laptop portable computing device tablet computing device mobile phone portable media player portable digital assistant and the like. Client can permit the execution of text exchange application and or presentation of interface .

Text exchange application can be a hardware software component for communicating one or more text exchanges and or private exchanges to a participant within a group session. Text exchange application can be but is not limited to desktop application Web based application and the like. In one instance text exchange application can be a JAVA 2 ENTERPRISE EDITION software. Text exchange application can be associated with a chat window e.g. interface contact list e.g. interface video playback window and the like. In one instance application can be an IBM LOTUS SAMETIME client application.

Interface can be one or more user interfaces permitting user interaction with a text exchange and or a private exchange within a group session. Interface can include but is not limited to chat window contact list settings interface and the like.

In one instance system can support offline messaging enabling participants to receive private exchanges during communication failures. For example system can store private exchanges within queue when a participant is offline and present the private exchange when the participant is online. That is system can account for network outages which can occur due to network latency client technical issues and the like.

It should be noted system can support traditional and or proprietary security mechanisms including but not limited to encryption e.g. TLS captchas and the like. In one embodiment selective encryption for private exchanges can be enabled permitting private messaging within secure environments to be realized.

It should be understood system can conform to traditional client server architecture peer to peer architecture and the like. In one instance system can be a component of a Service Oriented Architecture SOA . In another instance system can be a functionality of an Application Programming Interface API . Further system components can operate synchronously asynchronously and any combination thereof. System components can be associated with one or more network elements cloud computing elements distributed computing entities and the like. For example system can be associated with a presence server enabling presence information to be obtained for each participant within a group session.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment system can be integrated into an existing text exchange infrastructure enabling a traditional text exchange architecture to be extended. For example system functionality can be introduced into traditional text exchange clients such as MEEBO DIGSBY and the like. System can utilize traditional and or proprietary text exchange protocols including but not limited to XMPP Internet Relay Chat IRC Open System for Communication in Realtime OSCAR and the like.

It should be appreciated that server can be fault tolerant and can operate in the absence of presence information client server errors and the like. When failures within server occur appropriate error messages and or system events can be triggered and conveyed to relevant entities.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

