---

title: Typing assistance for editing
abstract: Apparatus and methods are disclosed for providing feedback and guidance to touch screen device users to improve the text entry user experience and performance. According to one embodiment, a method comprises receiving a text entry, receiving input on a touch screen in the form of a first single touch input located over a word of previously entered text, and presenting the user with one or more suggestion candidates indicated possible replacement words related to the selected word. The user can then select one of the suggestion candidates using a second single touch input to replace the selected word with a word associated with the selected suggestion candidate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09165257&OS=09165257&RS=09165257
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09165257
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100520
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 304 341 filed Feb. 12 2010 and entitled TYPING ASSISTANCE FOR EDITING which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure pertains to devices and methods for enhancing text entry using a touch screen device.

With the increasing popularity of mobile devices including cellphone devices handheld devices handheld computers smartphones PDAs etc. there is a need for improving the user interface experience by increasing user text input speed reducing text entry errors and improving the overall user experience.

Mobile devices with capacitive or resistive touch capabilities often utilize a touch screen keyboard a hardware keyboard speech recognition handwriting recognition or combination of the four for entry of text input. Touch screen keyboards enable larger displays for videos web pages email etc. without the requirement of a physical keyboard. Because touch screen keyboards are software based they can be easily adjusted for different languages screen orientation and key layouts. Furthermore touch screen keyboards can be augmented with widgets for word prediction and disambiguation candidates.

Users of devices with touch screens especially mobile devices have varying abilities and styles of entering text. In particular some users prefer to type large chunks of text input fairly rapidly and do not stop to review and correct the entered text until complete phrases sentences or complete messages have been entered. Similarly users entering text using speech recognition or handwriting recognition do not want to stop to review their text input until having entered completed phrases sentences or complete messages. Predictive typing assistance software such as T9 only offers word prediction candidates as users type. After users finish typing they are usually left without any assistance and must then struggle to edit text by placing cursors in between characters in order to proof and correct text.

Therefore there exists ample opportunity for improvement in technologies related to facilitating user input on electronic devices by providing more helpful and accurate assistance in the text correction process in order to accelerate user text entry and reduce user input error rates.

An apparatus and method are disclosed for providing feedback and guidance to touch screen device users to improve the text entry user experience and performance.

One exemplary embodiment disclosed herein is a method comprising receiving with a text entry device text input including a phrase the phrase comprising one or more words wherein at least a portion of the text input is displayed on a touch screen receiving first touch screen input from the touch screen based on the first touch screen input selecting at least one of the words and automatically displaying one or more suggestion candidates related to the at least one selected word receiving a second single touch screen input from the touch screen based on the second single touch screen input selecting one of the suggestion candidates and modifying the text input by automatically replacing the at least one selected word with one or more words associated with the selected suggestion candidate.

In some examples the method further comprises designated one or more of the words as incorrect and highlighting the incorrect words where the at least one selected word is one of the highlighted incorrect words. In some examples the method further comprises designating one or more of the words as incorrect where the one or more suggestion candidates includes at least one of the incorrect words the automatically displaying the one or more suggestion candidates includes an add to dictionary indicator adjacent at least one of the incorrect words and the modifying the text input further comprises adding a word associated with the selected suggestion candidate to a candidate source. In some examples the method further comprises in response to the modifying the text input checking the modified text input for correctness where the checking comprises determining that a second word of the modified text input is incorrect and highlighting the second word. In some examples the method further comprises in response to the modifying the text input checking the modified text input for correctness and based on the checking automatically replacing a word of the modified text input with another word. In some examples the first touch screen input is a single touch screen input. In some examples the text input is received using a touch screen keyboard a hardware keyboard a speech recognition module or a handwriting recognition module. In some examples the suggestion candidates are displayed adjacent to a keyboard while in other examples the candidates are displayed adjacent to the selected word.

Another exemplary embodiment disclosed herein is a system comprising one or more processing units operable to execute computer executable instructions for text entry and correction one or more memory units coupled to the processing units one or more touch screens having a display area the one or more touch screens operable to receive touch input over at least a portion of the display area and storage for storing the computer executable instructions for text entry and correction. The storage includes computer executable instructions for a text input module for receiving text input a text entry module for associating the text input with a text entry where at least a portion of the text entry is displayed using the display area of the one or more touch screens. The storage also includes computer executable instructions for a touch screen input module for processing first touch screen input received from the touch screens to produce at least one selected word of the text entry where the at least one selected word is identified using the first touch screen input and second touch screen input received from the touch screens to select one of one or more suggestion candidates where the second touch screen input is a single touch screen input on the touch screen area. The storage also includes computer executable instructions for a candidate generation module for producing the suggestion candidates for the at least one selected word where the candidate generation module causes the suggestion candidates to be automatically displayed after the at least one selected word is identified and a correction module for automatically modifying the text entry by replacing the at least one selected word with a word associated with the selected suggestion candidate. In some examples at least one of the suggestion candidates is automatically displayed with an add to dictionary candidate the correction module is operable to add a word associated with the selected suggestion candidate to a candidate source.

A further exemplary embodiment disclosed herein is a computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions that when executed cause a computer to perform a method comprising receiving text input using a touch screen the text input including one or more words wherein at least a portion of the text input is displayed on the touch screen as a text entry receiving a first single touch screen input with the touch screen the first single touch screen input being located over a complete word of the text entry wherein the word is designated as complete after receiving a delimiter character in the text input based on the first single touch screen input indicating the complete word as a selected word on the touch screen automatically displaying one or more suggestion candidates associated with the selected word on the touch screen where the suggestion candidates are arranged on the touch screen according to a rank order receiving a second single touch screen input from the touch screen immediately after the receiving the first single touch screen input the second single touch screen input being located over a selected one of the one or more suggestion candidates and based on the second single touch screen input modifying the text entry by automatically replacing the selected word with a word associated with the selected suggestion candidate. In some examples one or more of the suggestion candidates are received from a common speller application programming interface CSAPI . In some examples one or more of the suggestion candidates are received from a service provider in a computing cloud. In some examples the method further comprises determining the rank order using one or more ranks received from one or more of the following a system dictionary a user dictionary a common speller application programming interface or an input history data source.

The described techniques and tools for solutions for improving text entry user experience and performance can be implemented separately or in various combinations with each other. As will be described more fully below the described techniques and tools can be implemented on hardware that includes software touch screen keyboards or hardware keyboards. As will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the disclosed technology can be implemented using various platforms coupled with a touch screen including but not limited to mobile devices cellphones smartphones PDAs handheld devices handheld computers PDAs touch screen tablet devices tablet or laptop computers desktop computers and home theater systems. As used herein a touch screen includes a display coupled with touch sense capabilities for example displays using capacitive or resistive sensors .

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

This disclosure is set forth in the context of representative embodiments that are not intended to be limiting in any way.

As used in this application and in the claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural forms unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Additionally the term includes means comprises. Further the term coupled encompasses mechanical electrical as well as other practical ways of coupling or linking items together and does not exclude the presence of intermediate elements between the coupled items.

The described things and methods described herein should not be construed as being limiting in any way. Instead this disclosure is directed toward all novel and non obvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments alone and in various combinations and sub combinations with one another. The disclosed systems methods and apparatus are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combinations thereof nor do the disclosed things and methods require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved.

Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular sequential order for convenient presentation it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover for the sake of simplicity the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed things and methods can be used in conjunction with other things and methods. Additionally the description sometimes uses terms like produce generate select highlight and provide to describe the disclosed methods. These terms are high level abstractions of the actual operations that are performed. The actual operations that correspond to these terms can vary depending on the particular implementation and are readily discernible by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Theories of operation scientific principles or other theoretical descriptions presented herein in reference to the apparatus or methods of this disclosure have been provided for the purposes of better understanding and are not intended to be limiting in scope. The apparatus and methods in the appended claims are not limited to those apparatus and methods that function in the manner described by such theories of operation.

In the following description certain terms may be used such as up down upper lower horizontal vertical left right over on near and the like. These terms are used where applicable to provide some clarity of description when dealing with relative relationships. But these terms are not intended to imply absolute relationships positions and or orientations.

As used in this disclosure the term wait may be used to describe the action a device takes while waiting for particular value or type of input before proceeding with a particular operation. This waiting should not be construed as limiting the device to only waiting for the particular type of input rather the device may receive other input or perform other actions concurrently with the waiting.

As used in this disclosure the term automatically is used to describe actions that can proceed immediately without receiving further user input. As used in this disclosure the term immediately means that an action occurs within a short time period following a preceding action without needing to receive intervening user input. In some cases there may be intervening actions performed between or concurrently with the preceding action and the action occurring immediately for example screen refresh or redraw sound playback etc.

As used in this disclosure the term incorrect is used to describe a designation of a word or phrase as being incorrect. A word designated as incorrect can be automatically highlighted or auto corrected even though the word designated as incorrect by a correction module might actually be considered to be correct by the user. For example a word can be designated as incorrect because it does not exist in a dictionary CSAPI common speller application programming interface or IHDS input history data source . Alternatively a word can be designated as incorrect even though it exists in a dictionary CSAPI or IHDS because of other checking rules implemented in a correction module or candidate generation module or because of the context of the word within a phrase.

As used in this disclosure the term over is used to describe the positioning of one or more objects for example a finger thumb or stylus over on or near a location on a touch screen. In some embodiments this object need not come into contact with the touch screen for the object s position to be determined. In other embodiments the object described as over the touch screen may be in contact with the surface of the touch screen. In some embodiments the object determined to be over a location of the touch screen may not actually be positioned directly over the touch screen location but determined to be over the location on the touch screen for example by a position correction module of the text entry device or touch screen.

The disclosed technology includes various approaches to improving typing accuracy or typing speed when using devices having a touch screen by using suggestion candidates to augment other input devices. These suggestion candidates are typically represented in a candidates area which need not be permanently reserved for that purpose or can appear in varying location on the touch screen. After entering one or more words to form a text entry the user can review the text entry by viewing the touch screen and deciding whether to select word s for suggestions. Although some examples disclosed herein describe a word or a selected word it should be understood that in some examples selecting a word can include but is not limited to selecting a single word of a phrase with a single touch screen input selecting multiple words of a phrase with a single touch screen input or selecting multiple words of a phrase using touch screen input comprising plural single touch screen inputs. For example auto correction or unexpected key feedback can be generated for a single word or for a phrase comprising multiple words and spaces but are related in some way.

In some examples after input selecting a word is received one or more suggestion candidates are displayed on the touch screen display. The suggestion candidates can be presented as buttons which include a word related to the word selected by the user. Suggestion candidates can be determined to be related to the selected word using a candidate generation module which can use a dictionary a thesaurus a common speller application programming interface CSAPI an input history data source IHDS or other sources or methods to generate suggestion candidates. The candidate generation module can also determine the rank order in which suggestion candidates are presented. For example the suggestion candidates can be presented from left to right with the suggestion candidate determined to be the most likely presented farthest to the left and the least likely suggestion candidate presented farthest to the right. The user reviews the suggestion candidates and selects one of the candidates for replacement using a single touch screen input over the desired suggestion candidate on the touch screen.

As used in this disclosure a single touch screen input refers to the input received when a user positions an object over the surface of a touch screen such that the touch screen device can determine the position of the object. In some embodiments the object can be the user s finger or thumb. In other embodiments the object can be a stylus or puck. In some embodiments the single touch screen input is received after the user taps the touch screen over a word or suggestion candidates. In other embodiments the single touch screen input is received when the user presses the screen with a finger thumb or stylus. Receiving a single touch screen input is sufficient to determine which suggestion candidate the user is indicating on the touch screen no additional keyboard input mouse input trackball input voice input or additional touches are necessary. Using a single touch screen input to determine user selections simplifies the input process and allows for the fast correction of text entries without the need to use submenus popup menus or additional input devices.

The text entry device has a touch screen that displays a touch screen keyboard having several keys etc. Some of the keys including the backspace key return key and space key are also designated as delimiter keys. As shown the touch screen keyboard displays the keys etc. as images on the touch screen . The touch screen can include capacitive resistive inductive or other suitable technologies for determining the position of one or more touch inputs detected over the surface of the keyboard and converting this touch input into text input. In some embodiments the touch input is created using a stylus or puck while in other embodiments the touch input can be created using a finger or thumb. In other embodiments the touch screen keyboard can be implemented as a hardware keyboard including mechanical keys.

The touch screen also includes a suggestion candidates area and is depicted in showing three suggestion candidates mine mint and nine . As shown the suggestion candidates area includes widgets directly above the keyboard area containing word prediction and disambiguation candidates. Placing the suggestion candidates area close to the touch screen keyboard can improve typing speed and reduce errors by allowing users to maintain their focus of attention near the keyboard area while correcting a phrase in the text entry area . In other embodiments the suggestion candidates area can be placed nearby the phrase or selected word in the text entry area .

The location of the text entry area the keyboard etc. can be varied based on the particular implementation and design.

Methods and apparatus for performing handwriting recognition can include but are not limited to those based on Bayesian networks neural nets hidden Markov models or k nearest neighbor approaches. Methods and apparatus for performing speech recognition can include but are not limited to those based on a dynamic time warping approach or hidden Markov models.

At process block text input data comprising one or more input word s is received from a source such as a touch screen keyboard. In some embodiments the text input data includes text characters text words position data for key presses on a touch screen keyboard typing speed data correction data and or touch screen orientation data.

At process block touch screen input selecting one or more words of the text input data is received. In some examples one or more words of the text input data have been previously highlighted to indicate to a user that the word may be incorrect or otherwise has suggestion candidates available. In some examples a word is not highlighted but a single touch screen input is received for a word in order to prompt the display of suggestion candidates. For example responsive to receiving a first touch screen input homonyms synonyms from a thesaurus or similarly spelled words can be generated for a selected word and displayed as suggestion candidates.

At process block one or more suggestion candidates are automatically provided to a user e.g. using a touch screen display . Each of the suggestion candidates can be associated with an alternative word for one or more of the input words. In some examples the suggestion candidates are associated with alternative words for only one of the input words while in other examples suggestion candidates are associated with alternative words for more than one of the input words. An exemplary display of a suggestion candidate includes displaying a button using a touch screen display where the button includes the text of an associated alternative word within the boundary of the button.

At process block a second single touch screen input selecting one of the suggestion candidates is received. For example the selection can be received using a single touch screen input created by a user pressing a finger over a button associated with the desired touch screen candidate on a touch screen display.

At process block the input data is modified automatically using the alternative word associated with the selected suggestion candidate. In some examples the alternative word is used to replace the input word in the input data. In other examples the alternative word is added to the input data preceding or subsequent to the input word. In some examples the alternative word is a word that was previously auto corrected and the alternative word is therefore used to effectively undo a word inserted in the input data using an auto correction routine. Thus as described above a quick and effective way of providing suggestion candidates and indicators of their availability is provided that allows users to quickly modify input data using the suggestion candidates.

Turning to the user examines the suggested candidates and selects the candidate mint . The user makes a second single touch screen input by pressing the touch screen over the suggestion candidate mint with a finger . The background of the selected suggestion candidate is highlighted to indicate that the candidate has been selected. In some embodiments a sound is also played over a speaker to indicate that a suggestion candidate has been selected. In some embodiments an animation may be displayed instead of or in addition to highlighting the selected candidate.

Finally turning to the mobile device automatically replaces the word mind with the word mint previously selected using the suggestion candidate . In addition the candidates area has been automatically cleared and the carat cursor is placed at the end of the replaced word .

At process block which can occur immediately after process block and with no other user input a word of the text entry is selected based on the input data from the first single touch screen input received at process block . For example the first single touch screen input is detected as being positioned over the word that is then selected. In some embodiments inputs near but not directly over a word can be interpreted as being over a nearby word. After receiving the first single touch screen input suggestion candidates are generated based on the word selected by the first single touch screen input at process block . In some embodiments suggestion candidates are selected based not only on the selected word but based on the context in which the selected word is used in a phrase. In some embodiments words that are before or after a selected word can be used to determine which suggestion candidates are generated or to determine the rank order in which suggestion candidates are presented. For example if a prior word is Happy and a following word is Year the word New might receive a higher priority in the rank order in which suggestion candidates are presented. At process block one or more suggestion candidates for the selected word are automatically displayed. The display occurs automatically in that process blocks and can take place in response to receiving the first single touch screen input and no other user input is necessary before displaying the suggestion candidates.

At process block the method waits until a second single touch screen input is received from the touch screen indicating one of the suggestion candidates as the selected suggestion candidate. Finally at process block the word selected at process block is automatically replaced with a word associated with the suggestion candidate selected at process block .

As shown in the user next reviews the text entry and places a finger over the word mint . In response to and immediately after receiving the touch input suggestion candidates and are displayed as shown in . As shown the selected word mint has been automatically highlighted after receiving the user s touch input. In addition the candidates area now displays a list of four candidates and . The first candidate ming is the original word that was autocorrected by the device. The other three candidates and are generated by a candidate generation module.

As shown in the user reviews the suggestion candidates and using a finger selects the first suggestion candidate ming which was the original word before auto correction. In some embodiments after selecting the suggestion candidate the word s can be highlighted to indicate to the user that the replaced word ming does not exist in the dictionary and that receiving a third single touch screen input over either the highlighted word or over the suggestion candidate will add the word to the dictionary.

Finally as shown in the text entry device replaces the autocorrected word with the original word ming and places the carat at the end of ming.

In some embodiments the correction module can produce suggestion candidates that take into account the types of errors that have a higher probability for a given input mode. In addition to errors that are corrected in the same fashion across different input modes the correction module can produce different corrections based on the input mode used. That is different corrections can be produced based on whether the text input is received using a touch screen keyboard hardware keyboard speech recognition or handwriting recognition. For example when using a keyboard the text input vave could be corrected as cave since the probability of erroneously typing the letter v instead of c is high because the keys are adjacent on a standard QWERTY keyboard. When using handwriting recognition the text input vave could be corrected as wave since the probability that the user intended the letter w is high based on the similarity of the shapes of the letters v and w. 

At process block the text entry is modified by replacing a word designated as incorrect by the correction module with another word. In some embodiments the word is not simply determined to be correct or incorrect but can be determined to have discrete levels of correctness. For example some embodiments can determine that a word is one of the following correct suspect where auto correction is suppressed and the word is only highlighted in the display or incorrect where the word is automatically auto corrected . At process block a single touch screen input is received over the replacement word and the method automatically proceeds to process block where suggestion candidates are generated. At process block a determination is made whether the word that was selected was previously auto corrected at process block . If so the method proceeds to process block and the original word which was replaced at process block is added to the generated list of suggestion candidates. In either case the method next proceeds to process block where the list of suggestion candidates is displayed to the user. At process block a second single touch screen input is received over one of the suggestion candidates and the method immediately proceeds to process block where the selected word is automatically replaced with the selected suggestion candidate. In some embodiments the replaced word is then highlighted to indicate that the word is not in the dictionary and to indicate that the user can add the word to the dictionary by a making another single touch screen input over the highlighted word over the suggestion candidate or by pressing a designated key on the keyboard such as the space key or the return key. In some embodiments the highlighted word can be added to a user dictionary and the word will not be auto corrected for a period of time. For example a user dictionary can be implemented using a FIFO buffer that holds up to 100 user designated entries. Once more than 100 user entries are made to the user dictionary the first word entered in the user dictionary is again flagged as incorrect.

As will be discussed further below the suggestion candidates can be generated automatically by the text entry device using a system dictionary a user dictionary a CSAPI common speller application programming interface module and or an IHDS input history data source module. In some embodiments the data for generating the suggestion candidates is stored locally in a computer readable storage medium. In others some or all of the data for suggestion candidates can be accessed using a wired or wireless network that connects to a remote correction module or candidate generation module. In some embodiments the suggestion candidates can be generated based not just on a selected word but also based on the context of the word in a phrase. For example the position of a word at the beginning or end of a phrase or the words before or after the selected words can be used to determine which suggestion candidates are generated or the rank order in which suggestion candidates are presented.

At process block the device then generates suggestion candidates for the word and also checks to see if the selected word was highlighted at process block . If a highlighted word was selected the device also includes the highlighted word as a suggestion candidate. Next at process block the device automatically displays the generated suggestion candidates. If a highlighted word is included as one of the suggestion candidates the device also includes an add to dictionary indicator for example a plus sign icon color or other indicator that distinguishes the add to dictionary candidate from the other suggestion candidates.

Next at process block a second single touch screen input over one of the suggestion candidates is received. At process block a determination is made whether a highlighted add to dictionary candidate was selected and if so the method proceeds to process blocks and . At process block the highlighted word is added to one or more dictionaries which can be stored in a text entry device or remotely in for example a computing cloud. Finally at process block t the highlighting indicating the word as being misspelled is removed. If an add to dictionary candidate was not selected he selected word is automatically replaced with a word associated with the suggestion candidate at process block .

At process block a first single touch screen input is received and determined to be over a word of the text entry. The word is selected and also highlighted on the display to indicate that the word has been selected. Next at process block a candidate generation module is invoked to produce suggestion candidates for the word based on the phrase context dictionaries a CSAPI or an IHDS etc. At process block these suggestion candidates are automatically displayed in a suggestion candidates area of the touch screen. The suggestion candidates are automatically displayed in that only the single touch screen input needs to be received before the suggestion candidates are presented on the display.

At process block the method waits until receiving a second single touch screen input determined to be over one of the suggestion candidates. At process block the selected word is automatically replaced with a word associated with the suggestion candidate selected using the second single touch screen input. Next at process block a correction module is invoked to check the text entry for correctness using the context of the word in the text entry. Finally at process block the additional words in the text entry are automatically corrected. These additional words may have been designated as correct previously but are now designated as incorrect because of the replacement word that was added to the text entry at process block .

As shown in the text entry device has received a text input as shown on the touch screen including the phrase The best or including the word or and a delimiter space . A carat is displayed after the delimiter space . Also shown is a candidates area and keyboard . depicts the text entry device after receiving further text input such that the phrase is now The best or bread. As shown t the phrase has been spell checked and the word or is designated as incorrect as indicated by the squiggle .

At process block any words or phrases designated as incorrect during the checking process block are displayed using highlighting. For example the incorrect word can appear on the display with an underline squiggle or color highlighting.

As process block a single touch screen input is received from a touch screen. The single touch screen input is determined to have been received over one of the words highlighted as incorrect and the method proceeds to process block where a list of suggestion candidates is generated. Next at process block suggestion candidates for the selected words are automatically displayed in a candidates area.

At process block the method waits until a second touch screen input is received over one of the suggestion candidates. Process block occurs immediately after receiving this second single touch screen input where he selected word is automatically replaced with the selected suggestion candidate and the resulting text entry is displayed. The method then proceeds back to process block where the updated text entry is checked for correctness again.

Finally shows the text entry device as the user selects one of the suggestion candidates beat with a finger and the device immediately replaces the selected word tired with the associated word beat .

Finally shows the text entry device after the device has replaced the word ming with the first candidate mint cleared the candidates area and advanced the carat . As discussed further above if instead of pressing the space key the user selects one of the candidates or in the candidate selection area the word ming would have been replaced with the selected suggestion candidate. If the user selects a candidate with an add to dictionary indicator for example ming the selected suggestion candidate would have been added to a dictionary of the text entry device .

The computing environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality of the technology as the technology may be implemented in diverse general purpose or special purpose computing environments. For example the disclosed technology may be implemented with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The disclosed technology may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to the computing environment includes at least one central processing unit and memory . In this most basic configuration is included within a dashed line. The central processing unit executes computer executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power and as such multiple processors can be running simultaneously. The memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The memory stores software that can for example implement the technologies described herein. A computing environment may have additional features. For example the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices one or more communication connections and one or more touch screens . An interconnection mechanism not shown such as a bus a controller or a network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The storage may be removable or non removable and includes magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes CD ROMs CD RWs DVDs or any other medium which can be used to store information and that can be accessed within the computing environment . The storage stores instructions for the software which can implement technologies described herein.

The input device s may be a touch input device such as a keyboard keypad mouse pen or trackball a voice input device a scanning device or another device that provides input to the computing environment . For audio the input device s may be a sound card or similar device that accepts audio input in analog or digital form or a CD ROM reader that provides audio samples to the computing environment . The output device s may be a display printer speaker CD writer or another device that provides output from the computing environment . The touch screen can act as an input device receiving touch screen input and as an output device displaying the text entry area suggestion candidates area and or touch keyboard .

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium e.g. a connecting network to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer executable instructions compressed graphics information or other data in a modulated data signal.

Computer readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment . By way of example and not limitation with the computing environment computer readable media include memory storage communication media not shown and combinations of any of the above.

Computer readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment . By way of example and not limitation with the computing environment computer readable media include memory and or storage . As should be readily understood the term computer readable storage media includes the media for data storage such as memory and storage and not transmission media such as modulated data signals.

In example environment various types of services e.g. computing services are provided by a computing cloud . For example the cloud can comprise a collection of computing devices and which may be located centrally or distributed that provide cloud based services to various types of users and devices connected via a network such as the Internet. The implementation environment can be used in different ways to accomplish computing tasks. For example some tasks e.g. processing user input and presenting a user interface can be performed on local computing devices e.g. connected devices while other tasks e.g. storage of data to be used in subsequent processing including candidate sources can be performed in the cloud .

In example environment the cloud provides services for connected devices with a variety of screen capabilities. Connected device represents a device with a computer screen e.g. a mid size screen . For example connected device could be a personal computer such as desktop computer laptop notebook netbook or the like. Connected device represents a device with a mobile device screen e.g. a small size screen . For example connected device could be a mobile phone smart phone personal digital assistant tablet computer and the like. Connected device represents a device with a large screen . For example connected device could be a television screen e.g. a smart television or another device connected to a television e.g. a set top box or gaming console or the like. One or more of the connected devices can include touch screen capabilities. Touch screens can accept input in different ways. For example capacitive touch screens detect touch input when an object e.g. a fingertip or stylus distorts or interrupts an electrical current running across the surface. As another example touch screens can use optical sensors to detect touch input when beams from the optical sensors are interrupted. Physical contact with the surface of the screen is not necessary for input to be detected by some touch screens. Devices without screen capabilities also can be used in example environment . For example the cloud can provide services for one or more computers e.g. server computers without displays.

Services can be provided by the cloud through service providers or through other providers of online services not depicted . For example cloud services can be customized to the screen size display capability and or touch screen capability of a particular connected device e.g. connected devices .

In example environment the cloud provides the technologies and solutions described herein to the various connected devices using at least in part the service providers . For example the service providers can provide a centralized solution for various cloud based services e.g. spelling data grammar data word frequency data etc. . The service providers can manage service subscriptions for users and or devices e.g. for the connected devices and or their respective users .

Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular sequential order for convenient presentation it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover for the sake of simplicity the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed methods can be used in conjunction with other methods.

Any of the disclosed methods can be implemented as computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media e.g. non transitory computer readable media such as one or more optical media discs volatile memory components such as DRAM or SRAM or nonvolatile memory components such as hard drives and executed on a computer e.g. any commercially available computer including smart phones or other mobile devices that include computing hardware . Any of the computer executable instructions for implementing the disclosed techniques as well as any data created and used during implementation of the disclosed embodiments can be stored on one or more computer readable media e.g. non transitory computer readable media . The computer executable instructions can be part of for example a dedicated software application or a software application that is accessed or downloaded via a web browser or other software application such as a remote computing application . Such software can be executed for example on a single local computer e.g. any suitable commercially available computer or in a network environment e.g. via the Internet a wide area network a local area network a client server network such as a cloud computing network or other such network using one or more network computers.

For clarity only certain selected aspects of the software based implementations are described. Other details that are well known in the art are omitted. For example it should be understood that the disclosed technology is not limited to any specific computer language or program. For instance the disclosed technology can be implemented by software written in C Java Perl JavaScript Adobe Flash or any other suitable programming language. Likewise the disclosed technology is not limited to any particular computer or type of hardware. Certain details of suitable computers and hardware are well known and need not be set forth in detail in this disclosure.

Furthermore any of the software based embodiments comprising for example computer executable instructions for causing a computer to perform any of the disclosed methods can be uploaded downloaded or remotely accessed through a suitable communication means. Such suitable communication means include for example the Internet the World Wide Web an intranet software applications cable including fiber optic cable magnetic communications electromagnetic communications including RF microwave and infrared communications electronic communications or other such communication means.

The disclosed methods apparatus and systems should not be construed as limiting in any way. Instead the present disclosure is directed toward all novel and nonobvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments alone and in various combinations and subcombinations with one another. The disclosed methods apparatus and systems are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combination thereof nor do the disclosed embodiments require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved.

The illustrated mobile device can include a controller or processor e.g. signal processor microprocessor ASIC or other control and processing logic circuitry for performing such tasks as signal coding data processing input output processing power control and or other functions. An operating system can control the allocation and usage of the components and support for one or more application programs . The application programs can include common mobile computing applications e.g. email applications calendars contact managers web browsers text and media messaging applications or any other computing application.

The illustrated mobile device can include memory . Memory can include non removable memory and or removable memory . The non removable memory can include RAM ROM flash memory a hard disk or other well known memory storage technologies. The removable memory can include flash memory or a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card which is well known in GSM communication systems or other well known memory storage technologies such as smart cards. The memory can be used for storing data and or code for running the operating system and the application programs . Example data can include web pages text images sound files video data or other data sets to be sent to and or received from one or more network servers or other devices via one or more wired or wireless networks. The memory can be used to store a subscriber identifier such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and an equipment identifier such as an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI . Such identifiers can be transmitted to a network server to identify users and equipment.

The memory can also be used for implementing the candidate sources which are used for generating and suppressing auto corrections and generation suggestion candidates. Candidate sources can include but are not limited to a system dictionary a user dictionary a common speller application programming interface CSAPI touch models and an input history data source.

The mobile device can support one or more input devices such as a touch screen microphone camera physical keyboard and or trackball and one or more output devices such as a speaker and a display . Other possible output devices not shown can include haptic output devices such as a piezoelectric transducer or other suitable device. Some devices can serve more than one input output function. For examples touch screen and display can be combined in a single input output device.

A wireless modem can be coupled to an antenna not shown and can support two way communications between the processor and external devices as is well understood in the art. The modem is shown generically and can include a cellular modem for communicating with the mobile communication network and or other radio based modems e.g. Wi Fi or Bluetooth . The wireless modem is typically configured for communication with one or more cellular networks such as a GSM network for data and voice communications within a single cellular network between cellular networks or between the mobile device and a public switched telephone network PSTN . The mobile device can further include at least one input output port a power supply a satellite navigation system receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an accelerometer and or a physical connector which can include but is not limited to a USB port IEEE 1394 FireWire port and or an RS 232 port. The illustrated components are not required or all inclusive as any components can deleted and other components can be added.

Any of the methods described herein can be performed via one or more computer readable media e.g. storage or other tangible media comprising e.g. having or storing computer executable instructions for performing e.g. causing a computing device to perform such methods. Operation can be fully automatic semi automatic or involve manual intervention.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our innovations in the detailed description and accompanying drawings it will be recognized that the various embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied we claim as our invention all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

