---

title: Navigation system with destination-centric en-route notification delivery mechanism and method of operation thereof
abstract: A method of operation of a navigation system includes: receiving an entry for a destination; identifying a category of interest for the destination; generating a route to the destination; recognizing a traveling context for traveling along the route to the destination; and generating an en-route notification based on matching a delivery profile to the category of interest for traveling within the traveling context for displaying on a device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855919&OS=08855919&RS=08855919
owner: Telenav, Inc.
number: 08855919
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101202
---
The present application contains subject matter related to a concurrently filed U.S. Patent Application by Ky Tang entitled ADVERTISEMENT DELIVERY SYSTEM WITH DESTINATION CENTRIC ADVERTISEMENT DELIVERY MECHANISM AND METHOD OF OPERATION THEREOF. The related application is assigned to TeleNav Inc. and is identified by Ser. No. 12 959 339. The subject matter thereof is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

The present invention relates generally to a navigation system and more particularly to a system with destination centric en route notification delivery mechanism.

Modern portable consumer and industrial electronics especially client devices such as navigation systems cellular phones portable digital assistants and combination devices are providing increasing levels of functionality to support modern life including location based information services. Research and development in the existing technologies can take a myriad of different directions.

As users become more empowered with the growth of mobile location based service devices new and old paradigms begin to take advantage of this new device space. There are many technological solutions to take advantage of this new device location opportunity. One existing approach is to use location information to provide navigation services such as a global positioning system GPS for a car or on a mobile device such as a cell phone portable navigation device PND or a personal digital assistant PDA .

Location based services allow users to create transfer store and or consume information in order for users to create transfer store and consume in the real world . One such use of location based services is to efficiently transfer or route users to the desired destination or service.

Navigation systems and location based services enabled systems have been incorporated in automobiles notebooks handheld devices and other portable products. Today these systems aid users by incorporating available real time relevant information such as maps directions local businesses or other points of interest POI . The real time information provides invaluable relevant information.

However a navigation system that cannot provide relevant notification that relates to the target destination has become a paramount concern for the consumer. A navigation system that provides irrelevant notification can lead to unsafe operation of the vehicle and can decrease the benefit of using the tool.

Thus a need still remains for a navigation system with destination centric en route notification delivery mechanism that can tailor a notification that meets the type of travel the user undertakes and matches to the target destination where the user desires to reach. In view of the ever increasing commercial competitive pressures along with growing consumer expectations and the diminishing opportunities for meaningful product differentiation in the marketplace it is critical that answers be found for these problems. Additionally the need to reduce costs improve efficiencies and performance and meet competitive pressures adds an even greater urgency to the critical necessity for finding answers to these problems.

Solutions to these problems have been long sought but prior developments have not taught or suggested any solutions and thus solutions to these problems have long eluded those skilled in the art.

The present invention provides a method of operation of a navigation system including receiving an entry for a destination identifying a category of interest for the destination generating a route to the destination recognizing a traveling context for traveling along the route to the destination and generating an en route notification based on matching a delivery profile to the category of interest for traveling within the traveling context for displaying on a device.

The present invention provides a navigation system including a first user interface for receiving an entry for a destination a destination determinator module coupled to the first user interface for identifying a category of interest for the destination a route generator module coupled to the destination determinator module for generating a route to the destination a traveling context recognizer module coupled to the route generator module for recognizing a traveling context for traveling along the route to the destination and an en route notification generator module coupled to the traveling context recognizer module for generating an en route notification based on matching a delivery profile to the category of interest for traveling within the traveling context for displaying on a device.

Certain embodiments of the invention have other steps or elements in addition to or in place of those mentioned above. The steps or elements will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a reading of the following detailed description when taken with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to make and use the invention. It is to be understood that other embodiments would be evident based on the present disclosure and that system process or mechanical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are given to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In order to avoid obscuring the present invention some well known circuits system configurations and process steps are not disclosed in detail.

The drawings showing embodiments of the system are semi diagrammatic and not to scale and particularly some of the dimensions are for the clarity of presentation and are shown exaggerated in the drawing FIGS. Similarly although the views in the drawings for ease of description generally show similar orientations this depiction in the FIGS. is arbitrary for the most part. Generally the invention can be operated in any orientation. The embodiments have been numbered first embodiment second embodiment etc. as a matter of descriptive convenience and are not intended to have any other significance or provide limitations for the present invention.

One skilled in the art would appreciate that the format with which navigation information is expressed is not critical to some embodiments of the invention. For example in some embodiments navigation information is presented in the format of X Y where X and Y are two ordinates that define the geographic location i.e. a position of a user.

In an alternative embodiment navigation information is presented by longitude and latitude related information. In a further embodiment of the present invention the navigation information also includes a velocity element including a speed component and a heading component.

The term relevant information referred to herein comprises the navigation information described as well as information relating to points of interest to the user such as local business hours of businesses types of businesses advertised specials traffic information maps local events and nearby community or personal information.

The term module referred to herein can include software hardware or a combination thereof. For example the software can be machine code firmware embedded code and application software. Also for example the hardware can be circuitry processor computer integrated circuit integrated circuit cores a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS passive devices or a combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown a navigation system with destination centric en route notification delivery mechanism in an embodiment of the present invention. The navigation system includes a first device such as a client or a server connected to a second device such as a client or server with a communication path such as a wireless or wired network.

For example the first device can be of any of a variety of mobile devices such as a cellular phone personal digital assistant a notebook computer automotive telematic navigation system or other multi functional mobile communication or entertainment device. The first device can be a standalone device or can be incorporated with a vehicle for example a car truck bus or train. The first device can couple to the communication path to communicate with the second device .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the first device as a mobile computing device although it is understood that the first device can be different types of computing devices. For example the first device can also be a non mobile computing device such as a server a server farm or a desktop computer.

The second device can be any of a variety of centralized or decentralized computing devices. For example the second device can be a computer grid computing resources a virtualized computer resource cloud computing resource routers switches peer to peer distributed computing devices or a combination thereof.

The second device can be centralized in a single computer room distributed across different rooms distributed across different geographical locations embedded within a telecommunications network. The second device can have a means for coupling with the communication path to communicate with the first device . The second device can also be a client type device as described for the first device .

In another example the first device can be a particularized machine such as a mainframe a server a cluster server rack mounted server or a blade server or as more specific examples an IBM System z10 Business Class mainframe or a HP ProLiant ML server. Yet another example the second device can be a particularized machine such as a portable computing device a thin client a notebook a netbook a smartphone personal digital assistant or a cellular phone and as specific examples an Apple iPhone Palm Centro or Moto Q Global .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the second device as a non mobile computing device although it is understood that the second device can be different types of computing devices. For example the second device can also be a mobile computing device such as notebook computer another client device or a different type of client device. The second device can be a standalone device or can be incorporated with a vehicle for example a car truck bus or train.

Also for illustrative purposes the navigation system is shown with the second device and the first device as end points of the communication path although it is understood that the navigation system can have a different partition between the first device the second device and the communication path . For example the first device the second device or a combination thereof can also function as part of the communication path .

The communication path can be a variety of networks. For example the communication path can include wireless communication wired communication optical ultrasonic or the combination thereof. Satellite communication cellular communication Bluetooth Infrared Data Association standard IrDA wireless fidelity WiFi and worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX are examples of wireless communication that can be included in the communication path . Ethernet digital subscriber line DSL fiber to the home FTTH and plain old telephone service POTS are examples of wired communication that can be included in the communication path .

Further the communication path can traverse a number of network topologies and distances. For example the communication path can include direct connection personal area network PAN local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN or any combination thereof.

Referring now to therein is shown a first example of a display interface of the first device . The display interface can display en route notifications while the user travels along a route within a traveling context to reach a destination . Furthermore the term user used hereinafter refers to the user of the navigation system and the term vehicle will be denoted as the vehicle with the navigation system .

The en route notifications are defined as visual messages audio messages or a combination thereof delivered to the user traveling on the vehicle with the navigation system . The en route notifications can include alerts bulletins communications warnings or a combination thereof.

The en route notifications can display a notification acceptance a notification rejection or a combination thereof. The notification acceptance is defined as the functionality for the user to accept the en route notifications . The notification acceptance can be performed by the user selecting the notification acceptance stating an oral command to accept the en route notifications or a combination thereof. The notification rejection is defined as the functionality for the user to reject the en route notifications . The functionally for the notification rejection can be performed by the user selecting the notification rejection stating an oral command to reject the en route notifications or a combination thereof.

The route is defined as the travel path for the vehicle operated by the user to reach the destination . The destination is defined as the target geographic location where the user will end his or her travel.

The destination can be classified by a category of interest . The category of interest is defined as the type of the destination . For example McDonald s can be the destination . The category of interest for McDonald s can be a restaurant. As a different example Whole Foods Market can be the destination . The category of interest for Whole Foods Market can be a grocery store.

The user the navigation system or a combination thereof can make an entry for the destination the category of interest or a combination thereof to the navigation system . For example the entry can be made by manually typing the destination giving an oral command for the destination selecting the destination from a list or a combination thereof.

The traveling context is defined as facts interests circumstances or a combination thereof that exists while the vehicle with the navigation system travels along the route to reach the destination . Some examples of the traveling context as facts can include the time of day the category of interest of the destination or a combination thereof. For a further example the destination can be a restaurant named the French Laundry . The category of interest for French Laundry can be a three Michelin starred restaurant in Napa Valley Calif. The time can be 6 30 PM. The date can be September 20 a fianc e s birthday. Based on the mentioned set of facts the navigation system can recognize the traveling context as a special dinner occasion for the user. Furthermore based on the traveling context the navigation system can deliver the en route notifications representing dozen roses to the user. The details regarding the navigation system recognizing the traveling context and delivering the en route notifications will be discussed later.

A current location is defined as the current geographic location of the user of the navigation system . The navigation system can generate the route from the current location to the destination .

Referring now to therein is shown a second example of the display interface of the first device . The second example illustrates a situation when the user accepts the en route notifications by selecting the notification acceptance .

For example the destination can be French Laundry . One of the en route notifications can display a visual message for Napa Valley wine for cabernet sauvignon. The user can accept one of the en route notifications by selecting the notification acceptance . Based on the notification acceptance the navigation system can update the route to reach an intermediate stop prior to reaching the destination .

The intermediate stop is defined as the geographic location where the user can stop by prior to reaching the destination after selecting the notification acceptance . For example the user can stop by a liquor store named BevMo as the intermediate stop to purchase the cabernet sauvignon prior to having dinner at French Laundry .

Referring now to therein is shown a third example of the display interface of the first device . The third example illustrates a situation when the user rejects the en route notifications by selecting the notification rejection . For example the rejected message for the en route notifications can be displayed as dotted lines no display at all or a combination thereof.

The display interface can display an updated notification after the user selected the notification rejection . The updated notification is defined as the revised or updated version of the en route notifications .

For example the navigation system can deliver one of the en route notifications as 2 for 1 drink special. However the user had made the entry for the category of interest representing steakhouse. Hence the user can be uninterested in receiving a message for 2 for 1 drink special. Therefore the user can select the notification rejection for the message for the en route notifications displaying 2 for 1 drink special. 

Subsequently the navigation system can update the en route notifications based on the notification rejection by displaying the updated notification representing the message for antacid medication. The navigation system can display the updated notification for antacid medication because the user can be interested in taking antacid medication after eating a steak to ease his or her heartburn. The updated notification can also include the notification acceptance the notification rejection or a combination thereof. The details regarding the generation of the updated notification will be discussed later.

Referring now to therein is shown a fourth example of the display interface of the first device . The fourth example illustrates a situation when the user responds to the en route notifications by a non response .

The non response is defined as a non selection or an omission of action by the user to the offering of the en route notifications by the navigation system . For example the user can respond by the non response by neither selecting the notification acceptance nor the notification rejection . For a further example the non response can represent the user ignoring the en route notifications .

The navigation system can detect the non response for the en route notifications based on an occurrence of an event . The event is defined as an activity at a given place and time. The occurrence is defined as an instance of the event .

For example a sports bar along the route to the destination can have a drink special. The display interface can display one of the en route notifications as 2 for 1 drink special to the vehicle prior to reaching the sports bar. The event can represent a situation when the user ignores one of the en route notifications for 2 for 1 drink special and passes by the sports bar having the drink special. The occurrence can represent when the vehicle actually passed by the sports bar and have not made a U turn hence making the en route notifications for that sports bar irrelevant to the user.

The en route notifications which the navigation system had detected the non response for the occurrence of the event can be displayed as dotted lines no display at all or a combination thereof. The sports bar passed by the user can be displayed as dotted lines no display at all or a combination thereof. A portion of the route that passed by the sports bar can be displayed as dotted lines no display at all or a combination thereof. The navigation system can update the en route notifications based on the non response by displaying the updated notification . The details regarding the generation of the updated notification will be discussed later.

Referring now to therein is shown a fifth example of the display interface of the first device . The fifth example also illustrates a situation when the user responds to the en route notifications by the non response . More specifically the navigation system can detect the non response for the en route notifications based on meeting or exceeding of a time threshold .

The time threshold is defined as a predefined time time period or a combination thereof to establish the inactivity by the user to the offering of the en route notifications as the non response . As stated in the previous example a sports bar along the route can have a drink special. The display interface can display one of the en route notifications as 2 for 1 drink special to the vehicle prior to reaching the sports bar. The time threshold can be three minutes.

If one of the en route notifications representing 2 for 1 drink special had been displayed for three minutes or over three minutes and the user had not responded the navigation system can determine the inactivity by the user as the non response even if the vehicle had not reached the sports bar. For a different example if one of the en route notifications representing 2 for 1 drink special had been displayed for three minutes or over three minutes after the vehicle had passed the sports bar the navigation system can determine the inactivity by the user as the non response .

The en route notifications which the navigation system had detected the non response for meeting or exceeding the time threshold can be displayed as dotted lines no display at all or a combination thereof. The navigation system can update the en route notifications based on the non response by displaying the updated notification . The details regarding the generation of the updated notification will be discussed later.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of an acceptance trend . The acceptance trend is defined as the pattern of the user accepting the en route notifications of in a set time frame. The set time frame for example can represent a time of the day days out of the week a particular month out of the year or a combination thereof. The pattern can represent the acceptance of the en route notifications in the past the acceptance of the en route notifications in the future or a combination thereof. For example the user can accept the en route notifications representing the category of interest for wine by selecting the notification acceptance of for four times around 3 PM over the past one week.

In this example the left hand column can represent the type of the category of interest . For example the left hand column denoted as REST WINE MED and SALE can represent restaurant wine medication and bargain sales respectively. The left hand column can be represented differently. For example the left hand column can be represented by the destination of .

The top row denoted as 12 PM 3 PM 7 PM and 10 PM can represent the time of the day. For a specific example the user had selected the notification acceptance for the category of interest representing the medication around 3 PM for five times in the past one week. The top row can be represented differently. For example the top row can be represented by days of the week.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a rejection trend . The rejection trend is defined as the pattern of the user rejecting the en route notifications of in a set time frame. The pattern can represent the rejection of the en route notifications in the past the rejection of the en route notifications in the future or a combination thereof. For example the user can reject the en route notifications representing the category of interest for wine by selecting the notification rejection of for twice around 3 PM over the past one week.

In this example the left hand column can represent the type of the category of interest . For example the left hand column denoted as REST WINE MED and SALE can represent restaurant wine medication and bargain sales respectively. The left hand column can be represented differently. For example the left hand column can be represented by the destination of .

The top row denoted as 12 PM 3 PM 7 PM and 10 PM can represent the time of the day. For a specific example the user had selected the notification rejection for the category of interest representing the medication around 3 PM for once in the past one week. The top row can be represented differently. For example the top row can be represented by days of the week.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a non response trend . The non response trend is defined as the pattern of the user not responding to the en route notifications of in a set time frame. The pattern can represent the non response of of the en route notifications in the past the non response of the en route notifications in the future or a combination thereof. For example the user can ignore the en route notifications representing the category of interest for wine by not selecting the notification acceptance of for three times around 3 PM over the past one week.

In this example the left hand column can represent the type of the category of interest . For example the left hand column denoted as REST WINE MED and SALE can represent restaurant wine medication and bargain sales respectively. The left hand column can be represented differently. For example the left hand column can be represented by the destination of .

The top row denoted as 12 PM 3 PM 7 PM and 10 PM can represent the time of the day. For a specific example the user had the non response for the category of interest representing the bargain sale around 12 PM for three times in the past one week. The top row can be represented differently. For example the top row can be represented by days of the week.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a ranking of the category of interest . The ranking is defined as the ordinal order of the category of interest based on the notification acceptance of the notification rejection of the non response of or a combination thereof.

For this example the ranking is for the category of interest representing restaurant that the user had selected by selecting the notification acceptance . More specifically the ranking ranks the Chinese restaurant as the most popular to the user and fast food restaurant as the least popular to the user.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the navigation system delivering the en route notifications . The navigation system can deliver the en route notifications based on the notification acceptance the notification rejection the non response of or a combination thereof. The navigation system can deliver the en route notifications based on the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend the ranking or a combination thereof. The navigation system can also deliver the en route notifications based on the traveling context a travel type a delivery profile or a combination thereof. The details regarding the navigation system delivering the en route notifications will be discussed later.

The travel type is defined as a category of travel for traversing along the route to reach the destination . For example the destination can be French Laundry . Based on the destination the travel type can be going out for fine dining. For a different example the destination can be Yosemite National Park in California. The travel type can be going on a camping trip to Yosemite National Park which may include traveling along the route that includes bumpy roads.

The navigation system can recognize the traveling context by identifying the travel type . The details regarding the recognition of the traveling context will be discussed later.

The delivery profile is defined as the collection of information for the navigation system to base the generation of the en route notifications . For example the delivery profile can represent a collection of information of the user operating the navigation system . More specifically the user can be a male thirty years old and a chief executive officer CEO at a startup company in the Silicon Valley Calif.

For a more specific example the user can make the entry for the category of interest representing fine dining Continuing with the previous example the navigation system can generate the route to the destination representing French Laundry . The acceptance trend as detailed in can show that the user had selected the notification acceptance for bargain sales six times around 7 PM in the past week. Additionally the rejection trend as detailed in can show that the user had selected the notification rejection for medication seven times around 7 PM in the past week. Furthermore the non response trend as detailed in can show that the user had the non response for wine five times around 7 PM in the past week. Finally the ranking for the category of interest representing gift for females ranked roses as the highest ranking.

Continuing with the example while the user s vehicle is traveling along the route the navigation system can deliver one of the en route notifications representing dozen roses based on the traveling context the travel type and the delivery profile . Furthermore the navigation system can deliver one of the en route notifications representing dozen roses based on the acceptance trend the rejection trend and the non response trend .

As illustrated previously based on the rejection trend the navigation system did not send the en route notifications representing the category of interest for medications to the user. Additionally as illustrated previously based on the non response trend the navigation system did not send the en route notifications representing the category of interest for wine to the user. Finally as illustrated previously based on the ranking the navigation system delivered one of the en route notifications representing dozen roses to the user.

Continuing with the example the user can reject one of the en route notifications for dozen roses by selecting the notification rejection . Similarly for generating the en route notifications the navigation system can generate the updated notification based on the traveling context the travel type the delivery profile or a combination thereof.

Additionally similarly for generating the en route notifications the navigation system can generate the updated notification based on the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend the ranking or a combination thereof. Based on the above factors the navigation system can generate and deliver the updated notification representing diamond 2.5 carat to the user. The details regarding the generation and the delivery of the updated notification will be discussed later.

Continuing with the example the user can accept the updated notification for diamond 2.5 carat by selecting the notification acceptance . The navigation system can update the route to allow the user to stop by the intermediate stop that sells the 2.5 carat diamond prior to reaching the destination .

Referring now to therein is shown an exemplary block diagram of the navigation system . The navigation system can include the first device the communication path and the second device . The first device can send information in a first device transmission over the communication path to the second device . The second device can send information in a second device transmission over the communication path to the first device .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is shown with the first device as a client device although it is understood that the navigation system can have the first device as a different type of device. For example the first device can be a server.

Also for illustrative purposes the navigation system is shown with the second device as a server although it is understood that the navigation system can have the second device as a different type of device. For example the second device can be a client device.

For brevity of description in this embodiment of the present invention the first device will be described as a client device and the second device will be described as a server device. The present invention is not limited to this selection for the type of devices. The selection is an example of the present invention.

The first device can include a first control unit a first storage unit a first communication unit a first user interface and a location unit . The first device can be similarly described by the first device .

The first control unit can include a first control interface . The first control unit can execute a first software to provide the intelligence of the navigation system . The first control unit can be implemented in a number of different manners. For example the first control unit can be a processor an embedded processor a microprocessor a hardware control logic a hardware finite state machine FSM a digital signal processor DSP or a combination thereof. The first control interface can be used for communication between the first control unit and other functional units in the first device . The first control interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The first control interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The first control interface can be implemented in different ways and can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the first control interface . For example the first control interface can be implemented with a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS optical circuitry waveguides wireless circuitry wireline circuitry or a combination thereof.

The location unit can generate location information current heading and current speed of the first device as examples. The location unit can be implemented in many ways. For example the location unit can function as at least a part of a global positioning system GPS an inertial navigation system a cellular tower location system a pressure location system or any combination thereof.

The location unit can include a location interface . The location interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the first device . The location interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The location interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The location interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the location unit . The location interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first storage unit can store the first software . The first storage unit can also store the relevant information such as advertisements points of interest POI navigation routing entries or any combination thereof.

The first storage unit can be a volatile memory a nonvolatile memory an internal memory an external memory or a combination thereof. For example the first storage unit can be a nonvolatile storage such as non volatile random access memory NVRAM Flash memory disk storage or a volatile storage such as static random access memory SRAM .

The first storage unit can include a first storage interface . The first storage interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the first device . The first storage interface can also be used for communication that is external to the first device .

The first storage interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the first device .

The first storage interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the first storage unit . The first storage interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first communication unit can enable external communication to and from the first device . For example the first communication unit can permit the first device to communicate with the second device of an attachment such as a peripheral device or a computer desktop and the communication path .

The first communication unit can also function as a communication hub allowing the first device to function as part of the communication path and not limited to be an end point or terminal unit to the communication path . The first communication unit can include active and passive components such as microelectronics or an antenna for interaction with the communication path .

The first communication unit can include a first communication interface . The first communication interface can be used for communication between the first communication unit and other functional units in the first device . The first communication interface can receive information from the other functional units or can transmit information to the other functional units.

The first communication interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units are being interfaced with the first communication unit . The first communication interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the first control interface .

The first user interface allows a user not shown to interface and interact with the first device . The first user interface can include an input device and an output device. Examples of the input device of the first user interface can include a keypad a touchpad soft keys a keyboard a microphone or any combination thereof to provide data and communication inputs.

The first user interface can include a first display interface . The first display interface can include a display a projector a video screen a speaker or any combination thereof.

The first control unit can operate the first user interface to display information generated by the navigation system . The first control unit can also execute the first software for the other functions of the navigation system including receiving location information from the location unit . The first control unit can further execute the first software for interaction with the communication path via the first communication unit .

The second device can be optimized for implementing the present invention in a multiple device embodiment with the first device . The second device can provide the additional or higher performance processing power compared to the first device . The second device can include a second control unit a second communication unit and a second user interface .

The second user interface allows a user not shown to interface and interact with the second device . The second user interface can include an input device and an output device. Examples of the input device of the second user interface can include a keypad a touchpad soft keys a keyboard a microphone or any combination thereof to provide data and communication inputs. Examples of the output device of the second user interface can include a second display interface . The second display interface can include a display a projector a video screen a speaker or any combination thereof.

The second control unit can execute a second software to provide the intelligence of the second device of the navigation system . The second software can operate in conjunction with the first software . The second control unit can provide additional performance compared to the first control unit .

The second control unit can operate the second user interface to display information. The second control unit can also execute the second software for the other functions of the navigation system including operating the second communication unit to communicate with the first device over the communication path .

The second control unit can be implemented in a number of different manners. For example the second control unit can be a processor an embedded processor a microprocessor a hardware control logic a hardware finite state machine FSM a digital signal processor DSP or a combination thereof.

The second control unit can include a second controller interface . The second controller interface can be used for communication between the second control unit and other functional units in the second device . The second controller interface can also be used for communication that is external to the second device .

The second controller interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the second device .

The second controller interface can be implemented in different ways and can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the second controller interface . For example the second controller interface can be implemented with a pressure sensor an inertial sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS optical circuitry waveguides wireless circuitry wireline circuitry or a combination thereof.

A second storage unit can store the second software . The second storage unit can also store the relevant information such as advertisements points of interest POI navigation routing entries or any combination thereof. The second storage unit can be sized to provide the additional storage capacity to supplement the first storage unit .

For illustrative purposes the second storage unit is shown as a single element although it is understood that the second storage unit can be a distribution of storage elements. Also for illustrative purposes the navigation system is shown with the second storage unit as a single hierarchy storage system although it is understood that the navigation system can have the second storage unit in a different configuration. For example the second storage unit can be formed with different storage technologies forming a memory hierarchal system including different levels of caching main memory rotating media or off line storage.

The second storage unit can be a volatile memory a nonvolatile memory an internal memory an external memory or a combination thereof. For example the second storage unit can be a nonvolatile storage such as non volatile random access memory NVRAM Flash memory disk storage or a volatile storage such as static random access memory SRAM .

The second storage unit can include a second storage interface . The second storage interface can be used for communication between the location unit and other functional units in the second device . The second storage interface can also be used for communication that is external to the second device .

The second storage interface can receive information from the other functional units or from external sources or can transmit information to the other functional units or to external destinations. The external sources and the external destinations refer to sources and destinations external to the second device .

The second storage interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units or external units are being interfaced with the second storage unit . The second storage interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the second controller interface .

The second communication unit can enable external communication to and from the second device . For example the second communication unit can permit the second device to communicate with the first device over the communication path .

The second communication unit can also function as a communication hub allowing the second device to function as part of the communication path and not limited to be an end point or terminal unit to the communication path . The second communication unit can include active and passive components such as microelectronics or an antenna for interaction with the communication path .

The second communication unit can include a second communication interface . The second communication interface can be used for communication between the second communication unit and other functional units in the second device . The second communication interface can receive information from the other functional units or can transmit information to the other functional units.

The second communication interface can include different implementations depending on which functional units are being interfaced with the second communication unit . The second communication interface can be implemented with technologies and techniques similar to the implementation of the second controller interface .

The first communication unit can couple with the communication path to send information to the second device in the first device transmission . The second device can receive information in the second communication unit from the first device transmission of the communication path .

The second communication unit can couple with the communication path to send information to the first device in the second device transmission . The first device can receive information in the first communication unit from the second device transmission of the communication path . The navigation system can be executed by the first control unit the second control unit or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the second device is shown with the partition having the second user interface the second storage unit the second control unit and the second communication unit although it is understood that the second device can have a different partition. For example the second software can be partitioned differently such that some or all of its function can be in the second control unit and the second communication unit . Also the second device can include other functional units not shown in for clarity.

The functional units in the first device can work individually and independently of the other functional units. The first device can work individually and independently from the second device and the communication path .

The functional units in the second device can work individually and independently of the other functional units. The second device can work individually and independently from the first device and the communication path .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described by operation of the first device and the second device . It is understood that the first device and the second device can operate any of the modules and functions of the navigation system . For example the first device is described to operate the location unit although it is understood that the second device can also operate the location unit .

Referring now to therein is shown a control flow of the navigation system with destination centric en route notification delivery mechanism. The navigation system can include a target determinator module . The target determinator module identifies the type of geographic location where the user s vehicle is traveling to for the target destination. For example the target determinator module can identify the category of interest of for the destination of .

The target determinator module can identify the category of interest in a number of ways. The target determinator module includes a destination determinator module . The destination determinator module identifies the type of target destination where the user s vehicle desires to reach. More specifically the destination determinator module can identify the category of interest for the destination .

The destination determinator module can identify the category of interest by receiving the entry of for the destination . For example the destination determinator module can include a map that includes detailed information for various points of interest such as lists of coffee shops car dealers and dry cleaners. The user the navigation system or a combination thereof can make the entry for the various points of interest. For a further example the entry can be French Laundry . The map can contain information that French Laundry is a restaurant. The destination determinator module can identify the category of interest for the destination representing French Laundry to be a restaurant.

As a different example the destination determinator module can identify the category of interest by accessing external sources such as a restaurant rating services Michelin Zagat or Yelp.com through the first control interface of . For example the destination determinator module can access Yelp.com to identify that French Laundry is categorized under restaurant for Yelp.com .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the destination determinator module identifying the category of interest for the destination although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the destination determinator module differently. For example the destination determinator module can identify the destination for the category of interest .

The destination determinator module can identify the destination in a number of ways. For example the destination determinator module can include a repository that contains a list of points of interest categorized by the category of interest . For a further example the destination determinator module can receive the entry for the category of interest . More specifically if the user selects restaurant for the category of interest the destination determinator module can generate a list of restaurants for example within the five mile radius.

The destination determinator module can narrow the list of restaurants based on the acceptance trend of the rejection trend of the non response trend of the ranking of the travel type of the delivery profile of the time of day or a combination thereof. For example the destination determinator module can store information for the travel type the delivery profile the ranking or a combination thereof.

For a specific example the delivery profile can indicate that the user takes his wife out for dinner every Thursday evening. Furthermore the travel type can be going out for a steak dinner. The ranking can show the prime rib as the top choice for type of steaks. The acceptance trend can indicate that the user has accepted the en route notifications of for wines on Thursday evenings. Based on matching the delivery profile the travel type the ranking and the acceptance trend the destination determinator module can identify the destination to be a steakhouse called Lawry s .

The target determinator module includes an intermediate stop determinator module . Details regarding the intermediate stop determinator module will be discussed later.

The navigation system can include a route generator module . The route generator module generates a path to where the user desires to reach. For example the route generator module can generate the route to the destination from the current location of .

The navigation system can include a context recognition module . The context recognition module recognizes the facts interests circumstances or a combination thereof that exists while user s vehicle travels along the path to reach the desired point of interest. For example the context recognition module can recognize the traveling context of for traveling along the route to the destination .

The context recognition module can recognize the traveling context in a number of ways. The context recognition module includes a travel type identifier module . The travel type identifier module identifies the category of travel for traveling along the path. For example the travel type identifier module can identify the travel type based on the route .

For a specific example the route can guide the user s vehicle to reach the destination representing French Laundry . The calendar stored in the travel type identifier module can indicate that the date is user s fianc e s birthday. Based on matching the set of facts representing the route and the date the travel type identifier module can identify that going out to celebrate the fianc e s birthday by dining at the French Laundry can represent the travel type for traveling along the route .

The context recognition module can include a traveling context recognizer module . The traveling context recognizer module recognizes the facts interests circumstances or a combination thereof that exists while user s vehicle travels along the path to reach the desired point of interest. The traveling context recognizer module can recognize the traveling context based on the travel type for traveling along the route to the destination .

The traveling context recognizer module can recognize the traveling context in a number of ways. For example the category of interest for the destination can indicate the type of occasion for traversing the route . More specifically French Laundry can represent the destination . The category of interest for the destination can indicate fine dining at a three Michelin starred restaurant.

Furthermore the calendar can indicate that the date for the reservation at French Laundry can be on the user s fianc e s birthday. Based on matching the travel type the destination the category of interest the date or a combination thereof the traveling context recognizer module can recognize the traveling context to be a trip to attend a special dinner occasion for the user and user s fianc e.

The navigation system can include a notification module . The notification module generates the notification that is relevant to the user s profile and the type of point of interest where the user intends to reach while the user is traveling along the path to reach that desired point of interest. For example the notification module can generate the en route notifications based on matching the delivery profile to the category of interest for traveling within the traveling context for displaying on the first device of . For another example the notification module can generate the en route notifications based on the category of interest for reflecting the travel type related to the destination . For a different example the notification module can generate the en route notifications based on the ranking for meeting the travel type .

The notification module can generate the en route notifications in a number of ways. The notification module includes an en route notification generator module . The en route notification generator module generates the en route notifications .

The en route notification generator module can generate the en route notifications in a number of ways. The en route notification generator module can store a variety of the en route notifications . More specifically the en route notifications can be preinstalled into the en route notification generator module from a Compact Disc CD or Digital Versatile Disc DVD with the en route notifications .

As a different example the en route notification generator module can obtain the en route notifications from external sources such as Yelp.com through the first control interface . The en route notification generator module can store the en route notifications for different types of the category of interest such as restaurants bargain sales or medical emergencies.

For a specific example the destination can be French Laundry . As described previously the category of interest can be fine dining and the traveling context can be on the way for a special dinner occasion. The travel type can be going out for dinner. The en route notification generator module can generate one of the en route notifications representing a visual message for dozen roses by matching the delivery profile to the category of interest while traveling within the traveling context to entice the user to stop by to purchase a dozen roses as a birthday gift for his fianc e at French Laundry .

For a different example the travel type can be going out to celebrate the user s fianc e s birthday at French Laundry . The ranking can indicate that French Laundry was on the top of the list for restaurant that both the user and his fianc e wanted to dine most. The notification module can generate one of the en route notifications representing Silver Oaks Cabernet Sauvignon based on the ranking for meeting the travel type to entice the user to purchase a bottle of nice Cabernet Sauvignon for dinner before the user reaches the destination .

The navigation system can include a display module . The display module displays the visual notifications. For example the display module can display the visual version of the en route notifications play the audio version of the en route notifications or a combination thereof.

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the display module displaying the en route notifications although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the display module differently. For example the display module can receive the notification acceptance of the notification rejection of or a combination thereof for the en route notifications .

The display module can receive the notification acceptance and the notification rejection in a number of ways. The display module includes an acceptance receiver module and a rejection receiver module . The acceptance receiver module receives the notification acceptance and the rejection receiver module receives the notification rejection .

For a specific example when the display module displays one of the en route notifications representing dozen roses the acceptance receiver module can receive the notification acceptance from the user when the user selects the functionality on the display module for the notification acceptance gives oral command that indicates the notification acceptance such as ACCEPT or a combination thereof. The rejection receiver module can also receive the notification rejection similar to the acceptance receiver module receiving the notification acceptance .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the display module receiving the notification acceptance and the notification rejection although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the display module differently. For example the display module can detect the non response of for the en route notifications .

The display module can detect the non response in a number of ways. The display module includes a non response detector module . The non response detector module can detect the non response for the en route notifications based on meeting or exceeding the time threshold of the occurrence of of the event of or a combination thereof.

For a specific example as described in the non response detector module can detect the non response for the en route notifications based on the occurrence of the event . One of the en route notifications can represent 2 for 1 drink special at a sports bar. The occurrence of the event as described in can be the user s vehicle passing the sports bar without accepting or rejecting the en route notifications .

The non response detector module can identify one of the en route notifications representing the 2 for 1 drink special belongs to the sports bar because the notification module can store that unique version of the en route notifications for the sports bar. The non response detector module can identify the current location of the user s vehicle in relation to the geographic location of the sports bar through the location unit of . Once the non response detector module detects the distance between the current location of the vehicle in relation to the sports bar has reached a predefined distance of for example 500 yards radius the non response detector module can detect the en route notifications to be the non response .

For a different example as described in the non response detector module can detect the non response for the en route notifications based on meeting or exceeding the time threshold . Continuing with the previous example the en route notifications can represent a 2 for 1 drink special at a sports bar. The non response detector module can include a clock to track time.

When the en route notifications representing a 2 for 1 drink special is displayed by the display module the non response detector module can start tracking time for the duration of that the en route notifications are being displayed. Additionally the non response detector module can have the time threshold predefined as three minutes. If the acceptance receiver module has not received the notification acceptance or the rejection receiver module has not received the notification rejection after three minutes or more the non response detector module can detect the non response for the en route notifications has met or exceeded the time threshold of three minutes.

The navigation system can include a trend monitor module . The trend monitor module manages the trend for user s response to the notifications delivered by the navigation system . For example the trend monitor module can extrapolate the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend or a combination thereof.

The trend monitor module can extrapolate in a number of ways. For example the trend monitor module includes an acceptance trend tracker module . The acceptance trend tracker module extrapolates the acceptance trend based on the notification acceptance .

For example the acceptance trend tracker module can extrapolate the acceptance trend as described in . More specifically the acceptance trend tracker module can track the acceptance trend for each reception of the notification acceptance for the category of interest . For a further example as described in the acceptance receiver module can receive the notification acceptance for the en route notifications representing the category of interest for wine four times at 3 PM in the past week. The acceptance trend tracker module can track the acceptance trend for each of the category of interest for for example every week. Based on the acceptance trend for the category of interest for each week the acceptance trend tracker module can extrapolate that the user will likely select the notification acceptance for the en route notifications representing wine around 3 PM for next month.

The trend monitor module includes a rejection trend tracker module and a non response trend tracker module . The rejection trend tracker module extrapolates the rejection trend based on the notification rejection similarly to as the acceptance trend tracker module can extrapolate the acceptance trend . The non response trend tracker module extrapolates the non response trend based on the non response similarly to as the acceptance trend tracker module can extrapolate the acceptance trend .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the trend monitor module extrapolating the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend or a combination thereof although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the trend monitor module differently. For example the trend monitor module can generate the ranking for the en route notifications .

The trend monitor module can generate the ranking in a number of ways. For example the trend monitor module includes a ranking generator module . The ranking generator module generates the ranking based on the notification acceptance for the en route notifications . More specifically the ranking can be for the category of interest representing restaurants. The ranking generator module can track the notification acceptance for the category of interest .

As shown in the ranking illustrates the order for the most number of the notification acceptance for the particular type of the category of interest representing restaurants. The illustration highlights that the ranking generator module had received the most number of the notification acceptance for the category of interest representing Chinese restaurants. The ranking generator module can also generate the ranking based on the notification rejection the non response or a combination thereof for the en route notifications similarly to as the ranking generator module can generate the ranking based on the notification acceptance .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the target determinator module identifying the destination although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the target determinator module differently. For example the target determinator module can identify the intermediate stop of .

The target determinator module can identify the intermediate stop in a number of ways. As discussed earlier the target determinator module includes the intermediate stop determinator module . The intermediate stop determinator module identifies the intermediate stop for the notification acceptance prior to reaching the destination .

As previously discussed the en route notification generator module can store the en route notifications for different types of the category of interest . Furthermore the en route notification generator module can store detailed information such as the physical address and contact information for the source of the en route notifications .

When the acceptance receiver module received the notification acceptance the intermediate stop determinator module can receive the detailed information for the en route notifications . Based on the detailed information the intermediate stop determinator module can identify the intermediate stop by determining whether the user had selected the notification acceptance or not.

For a different example the intermediate stop determinator module can identify the intermediate stop by obtaining the detailed information from external sources such as Yelp.com through the first control interface . More specifically the en route notifications can include keywords of name of the source for the notification. The intermediate stop determinator module can query the keywords or name through a wireless connection via the first control interface to access external sources such as Yelp.com . By accessing the external sources the intermediate stop determinator module can identify the intermediate stop for the en route notifications .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the route generator module generating the route although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the route generator module differently. For example the route generator module can update the route for reaching the intermediate stop based on the notification acceptance for displaying on the device . More specifically the route generator module can update the route by generating the route from the current location where the user had selected the notification acceptance to the intermediate stop for the en route notifications .

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the traveling context recognizer module recognizing the traveling context although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the traveling context recognizer module differently. For example the traveling context recognizer module can update the traveling context based on updating the route .

More specifically when the route is updated to stop by the intermediate stop the traveling context for traveling the route to reach the intermediate stop can change. When the destination is French Laundry the traveling context can be traversing the route to attend a special dinner occasion. If the intermediate stop can be CVS Pharmacy the traveling context can be traversing the route to receive immediate medical attention or making a potty stop.

When the traveling context changes the content of the en route notifications can change to tailor to the updated circumstance of the traveling context . The traveling context recognizer module can update the traveling context based on similar factors as to the traveling context recognizer module recognizing the traveling context . The details regarding the tailoring of the en route notifications will be discussed later.

For illustrative purposes the navigation system is described with the notification module generating the en route notifications although it is understood that the navigation system can operate the notification module differently. For example the notification module can generate the updated notification of .

The notification module can generate the updated notification in a number of ways. For example the notification module includes an updated notification generator module . The updated notification generator module generates the updated notification based on the notification acceptance the notification rejection the non response or a combination thereof for reflecting the travel type related to the destination .

For example the acceptance receiver module can receive the notification acceptance for the en route notifications representing Silver Oaks Cabernet Sauvignon as previously discussed. Based on the notification acceptance the updated notification generator module can generate the updated notification representing Cheese to entice the user to purchase cheese for the wine.

The generation of the updated notification is similar to the generation of the en route notifications as previously discussed. The generation of the updated notification based on the notification rejection the non response or a combination thereof can be similar to as the generation of the updated notification based on the notification acceptance as previously discussed.

For a different example the updated notification generator module can generate the updated notification based on the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend or a combination thereof for the en route notifications . In contrast for a specific example the trend monitor module can also manage the acceptance trend the rejection trend and the non response trend for the updated notification similarly to as for the management for the en route notifications .

More specifically the rejection trend illustrated in can indicate that the rejection receiver module received the notification rejection for the en route notifications for medication seven times around 7 PM the past week. Based on the rejection trend the updated notification generator module can avoid generating the updated notification representing medication around 7 PM. The generation of the updated notification based on the acceptance trend the non response trend or a combination thereof can be similar to as the generation of the updated notification based on the rejection trend as previously discussed.

For another example the updated notification generator module can generate the updated notification based on the intermediate stop for traversing the route for reaching the intermediate stop . As previously discussed for tailoring the notification based on the updating of the route the updated notification can be generated to match the travel type while traversing the route for reaching the intermediate stop . The generation of the updated notification can be based on the delivery profile the category of interest for reflecting the travel type related to the intermediate stop similarly to as the generation of the en route notifications as previously discussed.

For a different example the updated notification can be generated based on the traveling context for reflecting the travel type related to the intermediate stop . If the traveling context can be traveling to the nearest pharmacy for the intermediate stop to pick up a medication the updated notification generator module can generate the updated notification representing grocery stop to allow the user stop by another location for the intermediate stop to purchase water to take the medication.

The physical transformation from displaying the en route notifications result in movement in the physical world such as people using the first device of the vehicle or a combination thereof based on the operation of the navigation system . As the movement in the physical world occurs the movement itself creates additional information that is converted back to the updated notification for the continued operation of the navigation system and to continue the movement in the physical world.

The first software of of the first device of can include the navigation system . For example the first software can include the target determinator module the route generator module the context recognition module the notification module the display module and the trend monitor module . The first user interface of can accept the selection for the entry the notification acceptance the notification rejection or a combination thereof.

The first control unit of can execute the first software for the target determinator module to receive the entry and identify the destination the intermediate stop or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software for the route generator module to generate the route from the current location to the destination the intermediate stop or a combination thereof.

The first control unit can execute the first software for the context recognition module to recognize the traveling context . The first control unit can execute the first software for the notification module to generate the en route notifications the updated notification or a combination thereof.

The display module can represent the first display interface of . The first control unit can execute the first display interface for receiving the notification acceptance the notification rejection or a combination thereof.

The first control unit can execute the first software for the trend monitor module for extrapolating the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend or a combination thereof. The first control unit can execute the first software for the trend monitor module for generating the ranking .

The second software of of the second device of can include the navigation system . For example the second software can include the target determinator module the route generator module the context recognition module the notification module the display module and the trend monitor module . The second user interface of can accept the selection for the entry the notification acceptance the notification rejection or a combination thereof.

The second control unit of can execute the second software for the target determinator module to receive the entry and identify the destination the intermediate stop or a combination thereof. The second control unit can execute the second software for the route generator module to generate the route from the current location to the destination the intermediate stop or a combination thereof.

The second control unit can execute the second software for the context recognition module to recognize the traveling context . The second control unit can execute the second software for the notification module to generate the en route notifications the updated notification or a combination thereof.

The display module can represent the second display interface of . The second control unit can execute the second display interface for receiving the notification acceptance the notification rejection or a combination thereof.

The second control unit can execute the second software for the trend monitor module for extrapolating the acceptance trend the rejection trend the non response trend or a combination thereof. The second control unit can execute the second software for the trend monitor module for generating the ranking .

The navigation system can be partitioned between the first software and the second software . For example the second software can include the target determinator module the route generator module the context recognition module the notification module and the trend monitor module . The second control unit can execute modules partitioned on the second software as previously described.

The first software can include the display module . Based on the size of the first storage unit of the first software can include additional modules of the navigation system . The first control unit can execute the modules partitioned on the first software as previously described.

The entry can be entered into the first user interface . The first control unit can operate the first communication unit of to send the entry to the second device . The first control unit can operate the first software to operate the location unit of .

The second communication unit of can send the route the en route notifications the updated notification or a combination thereof to the first device through the communication path of . The route the en route notifications the updated notification or a combination thereof can be displayed on the first display interface and the second device . The display module can send the notification acceptance the notification rejection the non response or a combination thereof to the second device through the communication path .

It has been discovered that the present invention provides the navigation system for providing safe operation of the navigation system and other user interface system within a vehicle. The safe operation is provided by recognizing the traveling context based on the navigation system receiving the entry and identifying the category of interest for the destination to aid the user for operating the vehicle to travel along the route safely. Furthermore generating the en route notifications the updated notification or a combination thereof that reflects the travel type can aid the user for operating the vehicle by presenting information sought after by the user and reducing distractions that can inhibit a safe travel along the route .

The navigation system describes the module functions or order as an example. The modules can be partitioned differently. For example the route generator module and the context recognition module can be combined. Each of the modules can operate individually and independently of the other modules.

Referring now to therein is shown a flow chart of a method of operation of the navigation system in a further embodiment of the present invention. The method includes receiving an entry for a destination in a block identifying a category of interest for the destination in a block generating a route to the destination in a block recognizing a traveling context for traveling along the route to the destination in a block and generating an en route notification based on matching a delivery profile to the category of interest for traveling within the traveling context for displaying on a device in a block .

The resulting method process apparatus device product and or system is straightforward cost effective uncomplicated highly versatile accurate sensitive and effective and can be implemented by adapting known components for ready efficient and economical manufacturing application and utilization. Another important aspect of the present invention is that it valuably supports and services the historical trend of reducing costs simplifying systems and increasing performance. These and other valuable aspects of the present invention consequently further the state of the technology to at least the next level.

While the invention has been described in conjunction with a specific best mode it is to be understood that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the aforegoing description. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the included claims. All matters hithertofore set forth herein or shown in the accompanying drawings are to be interpreted in an illustrative and non limiting sense.

