---

title: Reflexometry and hormone function
abstract: A method including measuring time periods in which a reflex point of a subject is struck and a reflex response is observed. A method including determining a resting metabolic rate of a subject by applying the Kail-Waters equation. An apparatus including a striking instrument capable of delivering a kinetic energy to a reflex point of a subject; and a measurement instrument capable of being coupled to a subject and measuring a reflex response. A machine-readable storage medium containing executable program instructions which when executed cause a digital processing system to perform a method including determining time periods in which a reflex point is struck and a reflex response is observed. A machine-readable storage medium containing executable program instructions which when executed cause a digital processing system to perform a method including determining a resting metabolic rate of a subject by applying the Kail-Waters equation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08177725&OS=08177725&RS=08177725
owner: 
number: 08177725
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100421
---
This application is a divisional of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 798 filed Nov. 16 2006 which claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 738 396 filed Nov. 18 2005.

Thyroid dysfunction affects more than 30 percent of the U.S. population. Sub clinical hypothyroidism appears to greatly affect the subject s health risk of many chronic degenerative diseases. The risks associated with sub clinical hypothyroidism can be grouped into the following risk categories Cardiovascular Risk Diabetes Risk Arthritis and Inflammatory Risk Neurological Risk Bone Risk and Pregnancy complications.

The current methods of testing for thyroid hormone dysfunction include the gold standard which is resting metabolic rate and serum thyroid measurements.

Reflexometry was studied in the 1960 s and 1970 s with Achilles tendon reflexometry and various pieces of testing equipment were developed which gave somewhat varied results. They were difficult to operate and use on a subject and were never widely accepted. The original studies looked at the height of the waveform and the length of the firing interval.

It was determined that the height of the waveform did not correlate with thyroid events. It was found however that the descending slope of the firing interval was elongated with the point of least variance at half of relaxation. This was difficult to determine.

In one embodiment a device a system and a method are described that correlate a reflex response to a hormone function. As an example a device a system and a method are described that correlates a resting metabolic rate that may be used to assess thyroid function with Brachioradialis Reflex intervals. The device system and method may also be used with other reflex points located on the body of a human or animal with the establishment of appropriate parameters for those reflex points and to assess other hormone functions. By way of example the effect of a substance e.g. magnesium on pre eclamptic women may be evaluated using the device system and method described herein.

In one embodiment a device and system includes three components a machine readable medium e.g. software a striking instrument such as a spring loaded plunger hammer capable of delivering kinetic energy to a reflex point and a measuring instrument such as an inclinator capable of measuring a reflex response.

In one embodiment the machine readable medium includes a program e.g. a software program that incorporates the capture of time intervals picked up by sensors in a striking instrument and a measuring instrument and to integrate the time intervals into a statistical analysis model that produces results which may be displayed to an operator in the form of a numbers or a graph. For example the time intervals data may be integrated with a subject s data by way of example height weight and other factors and a resultant output of resting metabolic rate is calculated. The resting metabolic rate and or speed of the reflex may then be used by a medical professional caregiver or the subject himself herself to assess thyroid function or the effect of any medication on thyroid function. Alternatively the program e.g. software program may include instructions that assess thyroid function or the effect of any medication on thyroid function based on resting metabolic rate and or speed of the reflex.

In terms of capturing time intervals in one embodiment a sensor in the striking instrument and a sensor in the measuring instrument permit the measurement of a Pre Firing Interval and a Firing Interval with regard to a reflex response. Using the Brachioradialis as an example a Pre Firing Interval is defined as the number of milliseconds from a strike at the trigger point of the Brachioradialis by a striking instrument to initiation of the Brachioradialis reflex response. A Firing Interval is defined as the number of milliseconds from initiation of the Brachioradialis reflex firing until its return to baseline. Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval is the difference in milliseconds between those intervals.

In one embodiment the striking instrument includes a spring loaded plunger or other design for striking a reflex point e.g. including but not limited to a manual drop weight . Using the Brachioradialis as an example the striking instrument e.g. spring loaded plunger or other device when released can accelerate towards the Brachioradialis and strike a Brachioradialis reflex point in such a way as to cause an involuntary reaction in the form of a reflex arc of the Brachioradialis.

In one embodiment the firing of the spring loaded plunger may be performed one to five times or more with software recording each measurement and the number of tests and the software averages or means the results of the time intervals for both the Pre Firing Interval and the Firing Interval and the Pre Firing Interval minus the Firing Interval.

In one embodiment the measuring instrument is capable of detecting the reflex arc caused by the striking of a reflex point by the striking instrument. Suitable measuring instruments include but are not limited to an inclinator that measures tilt e.g. a distance from level or other device that is capable of sensing movement of a finger or hand e.g. laser opposing electrical contacts etc. . Using a measuring instrument that is an inclinator as an example for measuring a reflex response of the Brachioradialis reflex the inclinator is placed on a subject s wrist or finger by the way of a strap and this tilt device records the movement of the wrist caused by the reflex reaction.

A representative method of striking and measuring a Brachioradialis reflex to for example determine metabolic rate and a correlation to thyroid function includes placing a subject s arm on a flat surface so that the surface fully supports the weight of the arm and a hand is left to hang fully relaxed over the end of the flat surface in a dependent manner so that it can be freely moved up and down without any obstructions or impedance to movement. A measuring device such as an inclinator is attached to the subject s wrist or hand or finger with the inclinator being positioned on top of the subject s wrist and in line with the middle finger.

The Brachioradialis reflex firing point is located by extending the subject s hand fully back and requiring the subject to move his her middle finger. With this exercise the Brachioradialis can be seen or felt. This may also be accomplished by tapping with a finger on the subject s forearm until a reflex reaction is seen in the subject s said finger. Having identified a reflex point the reflex point may be marked at the reflex location on the forearm.

A striking instrument such as a spring loaded plunger is cocked or engaged and then placed against the Brachioradialis trigger point. The spring loaded plunger is then released striking the surface skin of the subject s forearm at the marked reflex point and transferring its kinetic energy into the Brachioradialis. The striking of the skin in one embodiment begins the Pre Firing Interval that is captured by a computer program to which the plunger is connected and recorded by the program.

The Brachioradialis reacts to the strike by the spring loaded plunger with an involuntary reaction in the form of a reflex response by sending a signal via the nerves and neuro transmitter chemicals to the spinal cord then back down to the targeted muscle instructing the Brachioradialis muscle to react in the form of an involuntary reflex.

The involuntary reflex of the Brachioradialis muscle causes the hand and a finger of the subject to inclinate in an up and down motion the beginning of which ends the Pre Firing Interval and the beginning and end of which is the Firing Interval. The inclination of the hand finger is detected by the measuring instrument that in one example is an inclinator attached to the subject s hand and is captured by a computer program to which the inclinator is connected and recorded by the program.

In one embodiment a computer program software instruction logic takes the information from the firing of the spring loaded plunger and the motion captured by the inclinator and intervals Pre Firing Interval and Firing Interval are displayed on for example a computer useable interface linked to the software instruction logic in the form of numerical data points or a graph. In the case of a graphical display an operator places markers where the reflex motion intersects with the base line. The system then calculates the times for the Firing Interval the Pre Firing Interval and Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval. The resultant information is then displayed as discussed in the following text.

The Firing Interval Pre Firing Interval and Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval information is used to correlate via for example a statistical analysis model a resting metabolic rate. Resting metabolic rate is generally how many calories an individual burns per day at rest which is generally related to among other things an individual s height and weight. Resting metabolic rate is effected by factors such as sex age weight and height of a subject. With regard to sex an average male subject typically has a higher resting metabolic rate than an average female subject. Similarly a younger average subject typically has a higher resting metabolic rate than an average older subject of the same sex.

In one embodiment the calculated resting metabolic rate as correlated to the reflex tests carried out on the subject and a measured metabolic rate which is the current gold standard for determining thyroid function are linked in a later principal components analysis model.

Software is a computer program stored in a machine readable storage medium e.g. a computer readable storage medium such as memory and computer . Memory may be a hard disk drive but may also be other kinds of memory. A representative computer program includes among other things subsequent instructions that dictate the receipt of data related to a Pre Firing Interval Firing Interval instruction to calculate Firing Interval minus a Pre Firing Interval as well as an instruction that may relate to the collection of a subject s height weight and body mass index that may be used to calculate a resting metabolic rate. It is to be appreciated that other computer programs such as one stored on another memory device included but not limited to a disk may also be used. The computer program is processed by a processor in computer . The interface between a user and computer may be implemented for example via a monitor with command instruction implemented by an interface such as a keyboard mouse light pen sensor or touch screen monitor.

As described above an object of the device the system and the method is a non invasive reflex test that is easy to use by a physician or their trained staff and a reflex method that could be used by the subject themselves on themselves in their own homes to enable them to monitor the function of their thyroid and or the effect of the medications that they are were taking enabling them to refer the result of any test to a physician or to alter their dose accordingly similar to the at home testing for diabetics. Determining time periods in which a reflex point is struck until an initiation of a reflex response is observed as heretofore generally been done by a physician through the physician s trained visual observation of the reflex response. It is appreciated that visually observing millisecond differences e.g. 100 milliseconds vs. 150 milliseconds is very challenging. The device system and method remove this challenge by measuring the time periods with devices e.g. plunger inclinator that can identify or be calibrated to detect millisecond time periods.

The medical literature has identified several risks associated with thyroid dysfunction. These risks include 

Cardiovascular Risk Several investigators have shown an increase in dyslipidemia homocysteine C reactive protein coronary artery disease hypertension and ischemic heart disease in people with sub clinical hypothyroid.

Several investigators have also found hypercoaguability endothelial dysfunction and peripheral arterial disease. Ripoli measured decreased cardiac preload and increased afterload resulting in decreased stroke volume and cardiac output.

Diabetes Risk McCluskey showed that disruption of GLP 1 signaling affected corticosteroid and thyroid responses to stress in mice. Schultes demonstrated that in humans hypoglycemic episodes caused a decrease in thyroid stimulating hormone free T3 and free T4 which lasted over eighteen hours after the hypoglycemia. Dessein showed that HOMA score and Triglyceride HDL ratios increased and that sub clinical hypothyroidism was associated with insulin resistance. Dimitriadis et al. showed that in hyperthyroid states post absorptive plasma glucose and insulin increased plasma insulin responses increased insulin receptor binding increased due to increased receptor affinity insulin clearance increased and maximal insulin induced glucose uptake and oxidation increased. Risk of dysglycemia seems to be reduced with slightly hyper thyroid function.

Arthritis and Inflammatory Risk Dessein showed that in rheumatoid arthritis subjects sub clinical hypothyroid subjects had dysfunctions of glucose metabolism and insulin resistance. Innocencio showed that 52 of systemic sclerosis and 32 of rheumatoid arthritis subjects also had anti thyroglobulin and or anti thyroperoxidase antibodies. This finding of silent autoimmune thyroiditis may contribute to the euthyroid sick syndrome seen in people with autoimmune diseases.

Neurological Risk Klein showed that Hoffman s syndrome increased muscle mass stiffness and weakness was associated with hypothyroidism. Cakir showed that there was an increased frequency of Dupuytren s contracture carpal tunnel syndrome and decreased joint mobility in people who were sub clinically hypothyroid. Madriaga showed a polymyositis like syndrome in hypothyroid subjects. Tandeter showed an increased incidence of sub clinical hypothyroidism in Parkinson s subjects. Brucker Davis showed increased hearing loss in thyroid resistant subjects. Dolu showed abnormal EEG in sub clinical hypothyroid subjects with lower skin conductance lower fluctuation rates and prolonged onset latencies. Several investigators have shown an association between anxiety and depression and sub clinical hypothyroidism. Valpato demonstrated that in 628 women older than 65 years there was a 1.97 relative risk of cognitive decline in sub clinical hypothyroid women.

Bone Risk Engler showed that in sub clinical hyperthyroidism there were increases in bone resorption and bone formation parameters and an increased frequency of higher urinary pyridinoline and deoxypyrodinoline excretion. Meier et al. demonstrated that in sub clinical hypothyroid subjects who were given L thyroxine to restore serum thyroid measurements to the euthyroid range there was an increase in bone resorption. Kisakol showed that in sub clinical hypothyroidism there was no disturbance in calcium metabolism but in sub clinical hyperthyroidism there was increased urinary calcium excretion increased serum osteocalcin and increased urinary deoxypyridinoline.

Pregnancy complication Casey recently reported a three fold increase in placenta previa and a two fold increase in premature delivery in pregnant women with sub clinical hypothyroidism.

Peripheral Conversion of T4 to T3 Thyroid hormones are metabolized in peripheral tissues by deiodination conjugation deamination and decarboxylation enzyme reactions. Hepatic and renal pathology as well as stress states impact peripheral enzyme pathways. Toxic metals chemical poisons several drugs and nutrients may impact peripheral conversion. Vondra showed that there was a relationship between thyroid function and enzymes involved in glycolysis and cytoplasmic H2 transport from NADH2.

Mitochondrial Proton Leakage Porter showed that mitochondrial proton leakage was related to uncoupling protein 3 UCP3 . de LP et al. showed that UCP3 is regulated by T3 and causes mitochondrial uncoupling affecting resting metabolic rate. Reitman showed that free fatty acids appear to regulate UCP3 expression. Yu demonstrated that in euthyroid sick syndrome there is a decrease in activity of type 1 iodothyronine 5 deiodinase 5 D I hepatic enzyme conversion of T4 to T3. This is believed to be a competitive inhibition by cytokines IL 1 and IL 6 . Hoch demonstrated that thyroid states regulate each cardiolipin property and are permissive via the proton antenna for proton leaks. Slow leakage in liposomes may be due to insufficient cardiolipin proton antennas.

Stressed States and Euthyroid Sick Syndrome Schultes found that after a single episode of hypoglycemia free T3 and free T4 were diminished and thyroid stimulating hormone increased up to 18 hours. Several investigators have found that in the Euthyroid Sick Syndrome and other stress states thyroid function is severely decreased.

Cytokines Yu demonstrated that Interleukins 1 and 6 competitively inhibit the T3 induction of 5 deiodinase RNA and enzyme activity in rat hepatocytes. Nagaya et al. showed that activation of NF kappa B by TNF alpha which is elaborated in stress states impairs T3 dependent induction of 5 deiodinase gene expression which contributes to the Euthyroid Sick Syndrome. Rasmussen demonstrated that IL 1 alpha beta in moderate and high concentrations reversibly inhibit thyroid cell function while iL 1 beta in small doses stimulates thyroid cell function. This may contribute to the Euthyroid Sick Syndrome and or autoimmune disease. The earliest stages involve antigen presenting cells interacting with the thyroid. In the later stages antigen specific and non antigen specific immune cells are recruited to the thyroid and an inflammatory infiltrate is built. During this process cytokines free nitric and oxygen radicals are released. Ren showed that Leukemia inhibitory factor LIF a neuroimmune pleiotropic cytokine is produced in the thyroid gland. Thyroid stimulating hormone IL 6 and glucocorticoid influence thyroid cell LIF expression. Kimur showed that IL 6 and IL 10 significantly correlated with thyroid stimulating hormone in acute MI subjects that developed Euthyroid Sick Syndrome. Bagriacik demonstrated that serum T3 and T4 levels are sharply and transiently reduced during the first 24 hrs following systemic antigen exposure. These findings suggest that during the early phase of antigen exposure the immune system directly participates in the regulatory control of thyroid hormone activity.

Nutrients Barrows showed that very low carbohydrate diets caused decreases in resting metabolic rate T3 and RT3 without affecting T4. Mathieson found that although dietary carbohydrate content had an influence on the magnitude of fall of serum T3 resting metabolic rate declined similarly in both high and low CHO diets. Poehlman showed that there was a slight but insignificant decline in T3 in vegetarians versus non vegetarians. Dubois and Goldman could demonstrate no effect of hypothyroid on gastric secretion and emptying. Poehlman showed that acute exercise and caffeine ingestion had no effect on thyroid function. Berger et al. showed that selenium supplementation had moderate effects on thyroid function with a quicker recovery in Euthyroid Sick subjects although zinc and alpha tocopherol had no effect. Iron supplementation seems to increase resting metabolic rate and thyroxine levels as does zinc in iron zinc deficient individuals but had no effect in iron zinc sufficient. Clark showed that administration of kelp caused a significant and dose related increase in thyroid stimulating hormone and decrease in T3 and T4. Other sources of iodine performed similarly. In iodine deficient populations supplementation of iodine improved thyroid function but it reduces thyroid function in people who have adequate iodine. Benvenga showed that 1 carnitine decreases thyroid function by preventing its entry into the nucleus of cells which improves bone resorption in hyperthyroid individuals.

Environmental Toxins Rat studies by several investigators showed that PCB exposure resulted in severely decreased serum T4 and moderate decreases in serum T3. Tomasi showed that in rats exposed to fungicides there was a decrease in thyroid hormone and that there was a corresponding increase in T3 turn over. Pelletier proposed that organochlorine pesticide residues residing in adipose tissue would be released and cause a decrease in thyroid function in obese individuals during weight loss programs. Garry studied pesticide applicators and found sub clinical hypothyroidism in 5 144. Guven found that 31.8 of subjects who had been poisoned by organochlorines had Euthyroid Sick Syndrome.

Medications Several authors have shown that seizure medications and lithium reduce thyroid function. Amiodorone has been implicated in thyroid dysfunction. Wang showed that a single dose of salsalate caused a decrease of T3 and T4 as well as an increase in reverse T3 which lasted up to 96 hrs. It was concluded that there was an acute release of T4 and T3 from circulatory transport proteins induced by an inhibitor of binding. This resulted in a large and rapid redistribution of T4 and T3 into tissue compartments associated with transiently reduced peripheral tissue 5 monodeiodination and deranged thyroid stimulating hormone regulation.

Physiological Measurements Related to Thyroid Function Many investigators have used either estimations of resting energy expenditure such as the Harris Benedict equation or direct measurements of resting metabolic rate to look at energy expenditure and energy requirements in a variety of populations. Many authors have demonstrated a decrease in resting metabolic rate with age and decreased thyroid function. Vondra showed the relationship between thyroid function and enzymes involved in glycolysis and hydrogen transport from NADH2 correlating achilles tendon reflexes and thyroid function. Khurana Carel Goodman and others have demonstrated statistically significant correlations between achilles tendon reflexes and thyroid function. Goulis demonstrated a similar effect using stapedial reflex. Findings have been consistent in a slowing of the firing interval of the reflex with decrease in thyroid function and a corresponding return to normal with treatment by thyroid medication. Body mass index and other physical markers seem to correlate. Being female and increasing age have shown correlations with thyroid dysfunction.

Serum Thyroid Tests Scobbo showed great variability in serum thyroid stimulating hormone depending on the time of day samples were drawn and if the subject had fasted. Stockigt et al. showed that there was no current methodology that accurately reflects the free T4 in undiluted serum.

Risk Associated with Hyperthyroidism Gussakoo found no correlation between plasma thyrotropin and free thyroxine in elderly subjects with depression or cognitive dysfunction but found that increased thyrotropin was correlated with increased longevity. Kisakol and others found that sub clinical hyperthyroidism was associated with increased bone resorption increased quality of life increased lean body mass increased functionality and increased longevity.

The above paragraphs note risks associated with thyroid dysfunction. These include hypothyroid and hyperthyroid dysfunctions. The many risks emphasize the importance of a simple and accurate device system and method for monitoring thyroid dysfunction.

Thyroid dysfunction is also associated with various disease states including Graves disease and Hashimoto s disease. Graves disease is a type of autoimmune disease that causes over activity of the thyroid gland causing hyperthyroidism. This over activity is also referred to as toxic diffuse goiter. The thyroid gland helps set the rate of metabolism which is the rate that the body uses energy. When the thyroid is too active it makes more thyroid hormones than the body needs. High level of thyroid hormones can cause side effects such as weight lose rapid heart rate and nervousness.

One aspect of Graves disease is the potential for developing thyroid storm. Patients presenting in thyroid storm report a dramatic weight loss and may complain of chest pain palpitations shortness of breath tremor nervousness increased sweating disorientation and fatigue and in some cases thyroid storm can cause death. Thyroid storm is also difficult to quickly diagnose. The device system and method described herein allows a quick and relatively simple evaluation upon which a diagnosis of Graves disease may be made and the disease managed. Similarly the device system and method allow for a relatively quick diagnosis of thyroid storm.

Chronic thyroiditis Hashimoto s disease is an inflammation of the thyroid gland that frequently results in hyperthyroidism. The disease can cause cessation of thyroid function and is often treated with administering exogenous either natural or synthetic thyroid hormone. Thus the device system and method disclosed herein may be used to detect Hashimoto s disease. It has also been found that a subject taking either synthetic or natural thyroid hormone to manage Hashimoto s disease may experience a negative reaction in the sense that the subject s body ultimately recognizes the exogenous thyroid hormone and attacks the hormone. It has been found that by managing Hashimoto s disease such as through use of the device system and method described herein the attack of the synthetic or natural exogenous hormone can be recognized. It has also been discovered that a shift from the one of the synthetic or natural thyroid hormone to the other manages the attack. Thus upon the occurrence in the body of an attack on for example an exogenous synthetic thyroid hormone the subject may shift from the synthetic thyroid hormone to a natural thyroid hormone and forestall the attack. Upon recognition by the body of the exogenous thyroid hormone the subject may switch back to the synthetic hormone or another synthetic hormone. Such switching from natural to synthetic may be continued as necessary throughout the length of the disease.

Of the various reflex points in the body a relatively easy place to test is the arm and the Brachioradialis was selected as an easy reflex muscle to identify.

In one trial subjects were evaluated using a standardized Thyroid Symptom Questionnaire. Height and weight were measured on a standard clinic scale. Resting metabolic rate was predicted using the Harris Benedict HB Equation. Resting metabolic rate was measured using a MedGem oxygen consumption device which compared favorably to other valid measurements by way of example the Douglas Bag in clinical trials.

The trial was set up by measuring subjects for the following Thyroid symptoms age gender height weight body mass index calculated resting metabolic rate HB Equation measured resting metabolic rate Douglas Bag measured Brachioradialis reflex intervals and serum measurements of thyroid stimulating hormone TSH T3 uptake T3U T4 T7 cholesterol LDL HDL and triglycerides. Some subjects also had free T3 free T4 Microsomal TPO autoantibody thyroglobulin autoantibody ACTH and prolactin measurements.

Subjects that were taking thyroid medication received a dosage increase of the same medication. Subjects that had symptoms of thyroid dysfunction but were not currently taking thyroid medication were given a choice of thyroid treatments. All subjects were evaluated at 30 day intervals and dosages were increased until the Brachioradialis Reflexometry parameter of Firing Interval Pre Firing Interval less than 66 to 120 in one embodiment less than 66 to 100 milliseconds msec was achieved. The less than 66 to 100 msec was established as follows.

Subjects became functionally normal and thyroid symptoms resolved when their medication doses were titrated using resting metabolic rate and Brachioradialis Reflexometry as the primary endpoints. Only 14 of over 800 subject interactions 1.7 noted symptoms of nervousness tachycardia palpitations or insomnia although thyroid stimulating hormone levels became less than 0.01 mU L. ACTH and prolactin levels remained normal in subjects with low thyroid stimulating hormone indicating no suppression of pituitary function.

Brachioradialis Reflex measurements included Pre Firing Interval defined as the number of milliseconds from hammer strike to initiation of the Brachioradialis reflex response Firing Interval defined as the number of milliseconds from initiation of the Brachioradialis reflex firing until return to baseline and Firing Pre Firing which is the difference in milliseconds between those intervals.

Fasting serum specimens were collected for thyroid stimulating hormone T3U T4 T7 Cholesterol LDL HDL and Triglycerides. Some subjects received free T3 free T4 RT3 TRH Thyroid Microsomal TPO auto antibody Thyroglobulin auto antibody ACTH and Prolactin measurements. All serum measurements were collected in a clinic and processed by an independent laboratory. All serum measurements reflect their technique and norms.

Focusing on which factors are the best predictors of the dependent variable Resting Metabolic Rate RMR a step wise Multiple Linear Regression Analysis MLRA was the analytical method used on a population of 563 subject encounters N 563 . After analysis of the independent variables with MLRA it was determined that Subject Height CM Subject Weight KG Body Mass Index BMI of weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared Pre Firing Interval Firing Interval and Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval Fire minus Prefire were the best predictors of the dependent variable resting metabolic rate .

An acceptable Multiple R value indicates approximated 65 percent of all variation is accounted for with the predictive equation being the Kail Waters equation RESTING METABOLIC RATE 2307.62 7.53 CM 27.09 KG 42.59 BMI 45.47 PREFIRE 45.85 FIRE 46.27 FIRE PREFI 

In the preceding Kail Waters equation CM is height in centimeters KG is weight in kilograms BMI represents a body mass index which is a weight of a subject in kilograms divided by a height of the subject in meters squared PREFIRE is a Pre Firing Interval in milliseconds FIRE is a Firing Interval in milliseconds and FIRE PREFI is a Firing Interval minus a Pre Firing Interval.

Verification of the predictability of the equation was checked by computing a CRMR Computed RMR with the Kail Waters equation for all subject encounters and statistically comparing CRMR with measured resting metabolic rate using a Student t test with a pooled variance. Ho u1 u2 and Ha u1 u2

Based on the t value of 0.0019 the Ho is accepted with u1 u2 or the mean of CRMR is statistically the same as the mean of resting metabolic rate with a non significant 2 tailed probability of p 0.9985 giving relatively high credibility to the predictive equation.

Analysis of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone TSH with resting metabolic rate Pre Firing Interval Firing Interval Firing Interval Pre Firing Interval A common medical practice is to use quantitative serum thyroid stimulating hormone levels as a basis for the treatment of thyroid pathologies. This supposition may not be correct. Using a Factor Analysis Principal Components Analysis it appears that thyroid stimulating hormone may not be as closely associated with resting metabolic rate as might be expected. The data suggests that thyroid stimulating hormone has relatively independent variation compared to the other selected variables in this study. Hashimoto s Disease and Thyroid Treatment Six subjects in the study were discovered to have Hashimoto s disease. This was suspected if symptoms resting metabolic rate and Brachioradialis measurements regressed in spite of increasing thyroid medication dosage. In every case when microsomal TPO and or thyroglobulin antibodies were found the medication was switched from natural tissue to synthetic or visa versa. In every case at the next measurement interval symptoms resting metabolic rate and Brachioradialis increased showing more activity although the antibodies remained high. This was seen as an indication that the antibodies did not recognize and bind with the new medication thereby increasing receptor response.

Clinical investigators have long recognized that there was a discrepancy in reconciling a subject s symptoms and serum measurements of thyroid function. The hypothesis that physiological measurements of thyroid function were better indicators of functional status than serum measurements and that many sub clinically hypothyroid subjects were not receiving adequate treatment which may increase their health risk was confirmed by collected data. The unaccounted variance comes from stress events that occurred between measurement intervals that affected thyroid function.

Sub clinical Hypothyroidism appears to greatly affect the subject s health risk of many chronic degenerative diseases. It is essential to treat this syndrome. Sub clinical hypothyroidism seems to greatly increase the chronic degenerative diseases that are most prevalent. This population is not well identified by serum methods of thyroid function. In this population the evidence supports the hypothesis that physiologic measurements of thyroid function are more accurate at identifying the sub clinical hypothyroid state than serum measurements. Subjects became functionally normal and thyroid symptoms improved when their medication doses were titrated using resting metabolic rate and BR as the primary endpoints. Only 14 of over 800 subject interactions 1.7 noted symptoms of nervousness tachycardia palpitations or insomnia although thyroid stimulating hormone levels became less than 0.01 mU L in many subjects.

All measurements were made at baseline and 30 day intervals. Subjects already on thyroid medication continued it. Subjects on no medication were given the choice between Homeopathic Thyroid Formula Thyroid nutritional co factors without tissue Thyroid Tissue OTC Prescription natural thyroid or Prescription Synthetic Thyroid.

Doses of thyroid medication were increased until the Brachioradialis reflex parameter of Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval less than 66 to 100 msecs was achieved. If auto immune disease Hashimoto s was identified those subjects had their medication switched tissue to synthetic or visa versa .

It appears that being slightly hyperthyroid has advantages in terms of increased longevity and decreased risk of several chronic degenerative diseases. Calcium supplementation of 1000 to 1500 mg day as well as ipriflavone 900 mg day to reduce bone resorption is important in subjects whose thyroid stimulating hormone is less than 0.3 mU L.

Now referring to this shows the Factor loadings unrotated solution Principal Components Analysis Model the Resting metabolic rate Pre Firing Interval Firing Interval Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval and thyroid stimulating hormone . The statistics analysis model illustrates that the resting metabolic rate and reflex parameters are related to each other but thyroid stimulating hormones are not related to any other of the noted parameters.

Now referring to the graphs in and . shows a reflex parameters graph no medications best at target hyperthyroid Firing Interval Pre Firing Interval and Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval wherein 

The at target graph of Firing Interval minus Pre Firing Interval less than 66 msecs shows what happened to the serum thyroid hormone levels in the at target group.

The predicted vs measured resting metabolic rate RMR graph shows that the Kail Waters pre determined resting metabolic rate is a better predictor of resting metabolic rate than the currently accepted Harris Benedict Equation.

 Sensitivity is the proportion of those that are hypothyroid that are correctly diagnosed. It is expressed as 

 Specificity is the proportion of those that are euthyroid that were correctly identified. It is expressed as 

 Predictive Value of a Positive Test is the proportion of those with a positive test that are hypothyroid. It is expressed as 

 Predictive Value of a Negative Test can be considered as the proportion of those with a negative test that are hypothyroid which is expressed as 

More commonly Predictive Value of a Negative Test is considered the proportion of those with a negative test who are euthyroid which is expressed as 

Two targets of normality were developed resting metabolic rate change more than 350 kcals and Firing Interval Pre Firing Interval less than 66 msecs. People that achieved the resting metabolic rate gold standard target had a mean resting metabolic rate measured at 2040.7 kcals. Therefore the resting metabolic rate norm for euthyroid individuals was considered to be 2000 kcals being dependant on sex age and size of the individual.

There were 179 people in the subpopulation of patients on no medication. There were 117 people identified as positive hypothyroid by resting metabolic rate criteria and 123 people identified as positive by Reflex criteria. There were 58 people identified as negative euthyroid by resting metabolic rate criteria and 57 people identified as negative by Reflex criteria. These numbers allow the construction of the following table 

Sub clinical Hypothyroidism appears to greatly affect the subject s health risk of many chronic degenerative diseases. It is essential to treat this syndrome. Sub clinical hypothyroidism seems to greatly increase the critical degenerative diseases that are most prevalent. This population is not well identified by serum methods of thyroid function. This may be the most under identified chronic disease that affects a greater portion of the population than suspected.

In one embodiment the device system and method as described is able to identify thyroid problems including Hypothyroid Hyperthyroid Hashimoto s Graves among other conditions. The device is non invasive accurate and from the results of the device an individual can be identified with the disease and dosed after dosing titrated until the individual has equilibrated to a euthyroid state. The device can also identify if an individual can have their medications adjusted and can manage Hashimoto s and Graves disease.

In the preceding detailed description reference is made to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

