---

title: Method and apparatus for providing parental control using a playlist
abstract: An apparatus for providing parental control via a playlist is disclosed. The apparatus may be a content delivery system headend. The content delivery system headend system may have a Switched Digital Video (SDV) manager for coordinating SDV sessions requested by subscribers over an access network. The headend may have an input for receiving content to be broadcast during the SDV sessions. The headend may also have a subscriber control unit for sending one or more channel change control messages to a client device in accordance with a playlist, the one or more channel change control messages including tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08966519&OS=08966519&RS=08966519
owner: Motorola Mobility LLC
number: 08966519
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
Present day set top boxes commonly offer parental control capabilities that limit the content viewable by children in the household. Typically these products implement a block by rating limit. Content that has a rating higher more adult than the set limit will not be viewable on the display. While this is an effective method it can lead to a frustrating experience given the size of today s channel lineup. For example if a parent sets a MPAA G rating limit the vast majority of channels would be blocked. In this environment the child may encounter 10 blocked channels for every one allowed. Furthermore the allowed channels might not be what the parent would recommend if they were sitting next to the child in the room.

There is a need in the art for a parental control solution which more closely mimics the parents guiding hand when the parent is not available.

A method for providing parental control via a playlist is disclosed. In one embodiment a playlist is received from a control server. One or more channel change control messages are sent to a client in accordance with a playlist. The one or more channel change control messages include tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist.

An apparatus for providing parental control via a playlist is disclosed. In one embodiment the apparatus may be a content delivery system headend. The content delivery system headend system may have a Switched Digital Video SDV manager for coordinating SDV sessions requested by subscribers over an access network. The headend may have an input for receiving content to be broadcast during the SDV sessions. The headend may also have a subscriber control unit for sending one or more channel change control messages to a client device in accordance with a playlist the one or more channel change control messages including tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist.

As detailed below parental controls can be implemented in a relatively simple manner in Switched Digital Video SDV systems. SDV refers to an arrangement in which broadcast channels are only switched onto the network when they are requested by one or more subscribers thereby allowing system operators to save bandwidth over their distribution network. In conventional cable or satellite broadcast systems every broadcast channel is always available to all authorized subscribers. In contrast a switched digital video channel is only available when requested by one or more authorized subscribers. Also unlike video on demand which switches a singlecast interactive program to a user switched digital video switches broadcast streams making each stream available to one or more subscribers who simply join the broadcast stream just as they would with normal broadcast services. That is once a switched service is streamed to a subscriber subsequent subscribers associated with the same service group as the first subscriber can tune to the same broadcast stream. The switched digital video will often share the same resource managers and underlying resources with other on demand services.

SDV systems can simplify implementation of parental controls because each time a user changes from one channel to another a channel change request is sent from the user s subscriber device e.g. a set top terminal to a session manager in the network s headend. Channel change requests are one type of message that is communicated between the session manager and the subscriber using an SDV Channel Change Message CCM protocol which can be implemented as a proprietary protocol or as an open standard. After a channel change request is passed from the subscriber to the session manager the session manager would normally respond by sending a message that requests the subscriber device to tune to a channel on which the SDV channel will be made available. The message also includes the necessary tuning information for tuning to that SDV channel.

In the present case the session manager sends a message that requests the subscriber device to tune to a channel or program in accordance with a playlist. That is tuning information for a channel or program will be sent from the session manager to the subscriber device conforming to a pre established playlist that the user has made available to the session manager via a parental control server.

Some or even all of the hubs are connected to multiple users typically via distribution networks such as local cable access networks e.g. HFC networks . For simplicity of explanation only each hub is shown as being connected to a distinct HFC network which in turn communicates with end user equipment as illustrated. In particular hubs and in communicate with access networks and respectively. Each access network and in turn communicates with multiple end user devices such as set top or subscriber terminals. In the example of access network communicates with set top terminals and access network communicates with set top terminals and and access network communicates with set top terminals and .

In addition to the switch or router each hub can include an array of radio frequency transmitter edge devices such as edge QAM modulators . The number of edge devices in each hub may vary as needs dictate. For instance as previously noted the number of edge devices needed to implement SDV channels is generally much greater than the number of edge devices needed to implement broadcast channels. As used herein the term QAM refers to modulation schemes used for sending signals over cable access networks. Such modulation schemes might use any constellation level e.g. QAM 16 QAM 64 QAM 256 etc. depending on the details of a cable access network. A QAM may also refer to a physical channel modulated according to such schemes. Typically a single QAM modulator can output a multiplex of ten or twelve programs although the actual number will be dictated by a number of factors including the communication standard that is employed. The edge QAM modulators usually are adapted to i receive Ethernet frames that encapsulate the transport packets ii de capsulate these frames and remove network jitter and iii transmit radio frequency signals representative of the transport stream packets to end users over the HFC network. Each transport stream is mapped to a downstream QAM channel. Each QAM channel has a carrier frequency that differs from the carrier frequency of the other channels. The transport streams are mapped according to a channel plan designed by the MSO that operates the network.

Each hub and also includes an edge resource manager for allocating and managing the resources of the edge devices . The edge resource manager communicates with and receives instructions from the session manager located in the headend . In some cases the edge resource manager and or session manager can be located in the headend.

Headend may also include a network DVR . The network DVR stores content that can be transmitted to set top terminal via a hub and access network in response to a user request to play a program stored on the DVR . Other user input requests are also serviced by network DVR including for example requests to accelerate the playing of a program in the forward direction e.g. cueing and in the reverse direction e.g. reviewing . The content is stored by the network DVR upon a user request. The content may be provided to the network DVR from any available content source including for example content source .

It should be noted that in some cases the functionality of some or all of the SDV manager may be transferred to each of the hubs and . For example as described below Channel Change Messages may be communicated between the set top terminals and the hubs. In addition some or all of the functionality of the SDV manager may be distributed among other components such as an SDV operations manager SDVOM which is sometimes used to configure and monitor SDV systems.

Headend may also include a variety of other components for offering additional services. For example in a video on demand VOD server is shown for storing programs or other content for distribution to subscribers on an on demand basis. Although not shown one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other components and arrangements for achieving the various functionalities of headend are possible. For example the head end may comprise typical head end components and services including a billing module an advertising insertion module a subscriber management system SMS a conditional access system and a LAN s for placing the various components in data communication with one another. Headend also includes a parental control server which will be discussed below. It will also be appreciated that the headend configuration depicted in is a high level conceptual architecture and that each network may have multiple head ends deployed using different architectures.

The edge devices provide programming to the set top terminals using the downstream in band channels. To communicate control information and the like with the headend and or the relevant hub the set top terminals may use out of band OOB or DOCSIS channels or an IP tunnel or an IP connection and associated protocols. However in some cases communication of control information and the like can be performed using in band channels as well.

Control information that may be communicated over the out of band channels includes the aforementioned SDV channel change messages CCM which are used to pass channel change requests from the headend to the SDV manager which may also reside in the headend . In particular the SDV manager receives channel change requests for switched digital content from headend to bind that content to a session on one of edge devices serving a set top terminal s service group. The channel change request message is generated by the SDV application or its designated proxy resident in the headend in response to a program channel request that is prompted by a playlist created by a subscriber and stored at parental control server . In response to the channel change request message the SDV manager sends the frequency and program number where that content may be found to the set top terminal. SDV manager e.g. session manager or Switched Video Manager SVM requests the set top terminal to tune to the channel corresponding to this frequency and program number using a so called force tune function. The SDV manager also receives channel change request messages for non SDV e.g. broadcast channels in order to gather statistics that can be used to better understand subscriber activity and to provide information that can be used for targeted advertising and the like. Another reason to receive non SDV channel changes is so that the SDV Manager knows when the set top terminals are no longer tuned to an SDV channel thus allowing the SDV Manager to remove the SDV channel from the network to save bandwidth.

As previously mentioned since the SDV manager receives channel change requests for SDV and non SDV channels the SDV manager can be configured so that the necessary tuning information for a channel or program will be sent from SDV manager to the subscriber device e.g. STB conforming to a pre established playlist that the user has made available to the SDV manager via a parental control server .

The pre established playlist may be communicated to the SDV manager in any appropriate manner. For instance in one example the user may supply the playlist via an Internet enabled client device that accesses a user account database in a server associated with or in communication with the SDV manager such as parental control unit or server depicted in . The client device may be the user s own set top terminal or another device such as a personal computer PDA networked appliance cellphone or the like. The user account database may be accessed through an application level interface residing on the client device such as a web browser.

An example of a playlist is described later in . In some cases an input dialog box will first appear requiring a password to be input prior to accessing the parental playlist interface. In other cases a password may not be required until an attempt is made to alter the control settings. also shows a viewing log option that allows the subscriber to see a list of all the programming that has been viewed through the various set top terminals in the household over some selected period of time e.g. the past week . Information in the log can be used for example to revise and refine the parental controls that are put in place by the subscriber.

The parental control interface screen of may be presented to the user if the user has more than one set top terminal in his or her residence. This screen provides the user with a pulldown menu that presents the user with the option to establish a common set of controls for all the set top terminals or to establish different sets of controls on a room by room basis. From this menu a user e.g. a subscriber has the ability to establish a playlist for each set top terminal in the residence.

Referring to the top of an OCAP software stack includes a Monitor Application Electronic Program Guide EPG SDV application and any other applications that may be deployed in a particular network. These applications are run on top of a software layer called the Execution Engine and interface to the Execution Engine using the well known OCAP APIs . The client device may also include certain software applications or Native Applications that do not run within the Execution Engine but directly run on top of the Operating System Middleware for the client device. Native Applications are typically written for e.g. a particular hardware configuration of the set top terminal. Examples of such Native Applications may include management of front panel functionality remote control interaction games and the like. The objects downloaded to the client device in accordance with the techniques described herein may include any of the aforementioned applications and programs as well as additional applications programs or other objects. However during an upgrade many of the objects that need to downloaded may be directed to applications located above the OCAP application programming interface .

SDV application is loaded onto the set top terminals. Once installed the set top terminals can be readily configured to generate and transmit to the SDV manager the channel change requests even if all the channels in the system are in a broadcast configuration.

As noted the SDV application is responsible for communicating the channel change information e.g. SDV CCMs between the set top terminal and the SDV manager. The SDV application also receives from the SDV manager the control messages that request the set top terminal to tune to a particular channel or program corresponding to the tuning information provided in the control message. The SDV manager may in accordance with a playlist send one or more control messages to the set top terminal. The one or more control messages include tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist.

In one embodiment the playlist is created using an internet based interface. The playlist may be created via the internet based interface with parental control server using an internet based version of an electronic program guide available on a client e.g. a set top terminal. The playlist may include time information channel information program information and rating information.

At step one or more channel change control messages are sent to the client device in accordance with the playlist. The one or more channel change control messages may comprise tuning information for tuning to one or more programs or channels at times indicated in the playlist.

In one embodiment the one or more channel change control messages may be implemented using protocols of a Switched Digital Video SDV system. In this embodiment a session manager e.g. SDV manager or Switched Video Manager SVM implements the playlist received from the subscriber control server. At appropriate times dictated by the playlist channel change control messages are sent to the client e.g. set top terminal in order to force tune to a channel or program.

In one embodiment the one or more channel change control messages are implemented using a subset of channel change protocols deployed in a mini client e.g. a driver to provide channel change messages in non Switched Digital Video SDV systems.

In one embodiment channel changes via the client remote control are disabled during implementation of the playlist. When channel changes are disabled the session manager receives a channel change request from the client. In response to the channel change request the session manager responds by sending tuning information in accordance with the playlist e.g. tuning information associated with the timing information located in the presently implemented playlist.

The processes described above including but not limited to those presented in connection with may be implemented in general multi purpose or single purpose processors. Such a processor will execute instructions either at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform that process. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of presented above and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying those instructions and include a CD ROM DVD magnetic or other optical disc tape silicon memory e.g. removable non removable volatile or non volatile packetized or non packetized wireline or wireless transmission signals.

A method and apparatus has been described for allowing SDV system subscribers to conveniently establish programming playlists that may be implemented in a residential or other environment. The playlist is implemented by the SDV manager or other appropriate entity by forcing the set top terminal e.g. a client or other subscriber end device to tune to programming or channels in accordance with a pre defined playlist.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

