---

title: Auditing of electronic device and packaging
abstract: A method of auditing electronic device shipments is provided. The method comprises electronically reading a first serial number on an electronic device, a second serial number on a point-of-sale package containing the electronic device, and a third serial number stored in a memory of the electronic device; storing the first serial number, the second serial number, and a third serial number in a non-transitory memory separate from the electronic device; and automatically comparing the first serial number, the second serial number, and the third serial number. The method further comprises automatically reading from the memory of the electronic device a software version identity associated with software installed on the electronic device and automatically comparing the software version identity with an approved software version identity. The method further comprises, when any miscompare occurs, automatically presenting a notification of an error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566183&OS=08566183&RS=08566183
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08566183
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101007
---
Electronic devices may be associated with an electronic serial number ESN a stock keeping unit SKU and other identifying information. Electronic devices may be packaged with operating manuals warning documents charging devices and other accessories in a point of sale package suitable for distributing to end users for example consumers. A plurality of point of sale packages each containing an electronic device may be shipped together in a master carton to a retail store or business location.

When new models of electronic devices are launched into the marketplace a variety of early production errors may occur. To detect and correct such early production errors and to avoid a negative initial response from the market new models of electronic devices may be audited before shipping to the retail stores and or to business locations.

In an embodiment a method of auditing electronic device shipments is disclosed. The method comprises electronically reading a first serial number on an electronic device a second serial number on a point of sale package containing the electronic device and a third serial number stored in a memory of the electronic device storing the first serial number the second serial number and a third serial number in a non transitory memory separate from the electronic device and automatically comparing the first serial number the second serial number and the third serial number. The method further comprises automatically reading from the memory of the electronic device a software version identity associated with software installed on the electronic device and automatically comparing the software version identity with an approved software version identity. The method further comprises when any miscompare occurs automatically presenting a notification of an error. The method further comprises pressing a plurality of keys of a keypad of the electronic device and in response to the pressing of the keys adapting a presentation providing key press event feedback wherein the key press event feedback comprises one of removing keys from a presented list of expected key press events or adding keys to a presented list of detected key press events.

In an embodiment a method of auditing mobile phone shipments is disclosed. The method comprises electronically reading a first serial number on a mobile phone a second serial number on a point of sale package containing the mobile phone and a third serial number stored in a memory of the mobile phone storing the first serial number the second serial number and the third serial number in a non transitory memory separate from the mobile phone and automatically comparing the first serial number the second serial number and the third serial number. The method further comprises automatically sensing a weight of the point of sale package and contents automatically comparing the weight to a predefined weight range automatically taking a picture of the point of sale package contents with a digital camera and automatically comparing an image of the point of sale package contents to a predefined image. When one of the weights is outside of the predefined weight range and the image of the point of sale contents does not compare to the predefined image the method further comprises automatically sending a notification of an error.

In an embodiment a method of auditing mobile phone shipments is disclosed. The method comprises electronically reading a first stock keeping unit SKU number on a mobile phone electronically reading a second stock keeping unit number on a package containing the mobile phone storing the first and second stock keeping unit numbers in a non transitory memory automatically comparing the stock keeping unit numbers and when the stock keeping unit numbers miscompare automatically presenting a first notification of an error. The method further comprises electronically commanding the mobile phone to take a picture with a camera of the mobile phone electronically reading a picture file from the mobile phone automatically analyzing the picture file and when the analysis of the picture file identifies a fault in the picture file automatically presenting a second notification of an error.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Auditing of a new model of electronic device may be performed before initial shipping to retail stores and to business locations to detect and correct errors. A variety of testing of electronic devices that does not comprise auditing may be performed by original equipment manufacturers. For example original equipment manufacturers may test software features and hardware for example using one two or a small number of prototype devices or early production devices to assure that the design of the electronic devices meets specifications. Auditing of a new model of electronic device by contrast may typically select a larger number of production electronic devices that are packaged and ready to ship to paying customers. Additionally auditing may check many things not tested by original equipment manufacturers such as point of sale package integrity cosmetic appearance of the electronic device agreement between labels and or serial numbers on the electronic device on the point of sale package and on a master carton containing a plurality of electronic devices and other items.

In an embodiment an automated auditing system and method of auditing electronic devices is disclosed. The automated auditing system audits a variety of aspects of both the electronic device itself the point of sale packaging of the electronic device and the master carton in which a plurality of point of sale packages may be shipped. A plurality of serial number codes may each be electronically read the serial number code translated to a serial number value and automatically compared to a corresponding serial number value stored in a memory of the electronic device. For example a serial number bar code adhered to an inside cover of the battery compartment of the electronic device may be electronically read and translated to a device package serial number value a serial number bar code adhered to or printed on the point of sale package may be electronically read and translated to a point of sale package serial number value a serial number bar code adhered to or printed on the master carton may be electronically read and translated to a master carton serial number value. Each of the device package serial number value the point of sale package serial number value and the master carton serial number value may then be automatically compared with the serial number stored in the memory of the electronic device. To promote concision hereinafter this process may be described simply as reading and comparing serial numbers dropping the distinction between a representation of a serial number for example a bar code and the value of the serial number itself.

If any of the serial numbers disagree an alert is raised so that the discrepancy can be resolved. In an embodiment an email may be sent to an email inbox of a responsible party and or a responsible manager. The alert that is raised may comprise an audio alert that summons a responsible party to the auditing station to read a message presented on a display of the auditing station. Resolving the discrepancy may comprise both correcting the erroneous serial number and correcting a process error that is the root cause of the erroneous serial number. The auditing system may read and check correlation among other identification information that may appear on the electronic device on the point of sale package and or the master carton such as stock keeping unit SKU number universal product codes UPCs and other identification information. In an embodiment a record of the identification information may be stored by the auditing system for future reference and use.

The auditing system may electronically access and read a software version identity of software installed on the electronic device from the memory of the electronic device and compare this to an approved software version identity for example a firmware version identity. When the installed software version is different from the approved software version identity an alert is raised so the discrepancy may be resolved. The system may electronically access and read a preferred roaming list PRL stored in the memory of the electronic device and compare this to an approved preferred roaming list. When the preferred roaming list stored in the electronic device is different from the approved preferred roaming list an alert is raised so the discrepancy may be resolved. In an embodiment the software version identity and the preferred roaming list stored in the memory of the electronic device are stored by the auditing system for future reference and use.

The auditing system may electronically command a camera of the electronic device to take a picture. The system may then access and read an image file created by the camera of the electronic device and analyze the image file. If the image file fails to meet specifications an alert is raised so the discrepancy may be resolved. In an embodiment one or both of the image files and or the results of the analysis of the image file are stored by the auditing system for future reference and use.

The automated auditing system may perform a number of further auditing checks to determine the readiness of the new model of electronic device for release to the market. The automated auditing system reduces the labor burden of performing the audit. Additionally the automated auditing system may check parameters and or settings of the electronic device which are typically skipped by a manual auditing process. Storing many of the auditing results for future reference and use may promote improved trouble shooting and or customer service after the electronic devices are in use.

Turning now to an automated auditing system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises at least a first auditing station an auditing computer and a first data store . In an embodiment the system may comprise a plurality of auditing stations that are substantially similar to the first auditing station . The first auditing station comprises an electronic reader and or an electronic sensor . The first auditing station may comprise a scale and a docking station for auditing in part an electronic device . In an embodiment the first auditing station may comprise a keypad actuation robot but in other embodiments the first auditing station does not comprise the keypad actuation robot . In some contexts the keypad actuation robot may be referred to as the optional keypad actuation robot . The electronic device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer or some other electronic device. In an embodiment the docking station may comprise a microphone . The first auditing station may comprise a display a processor a digital camera and a speaker . In an embodiment the processor is a desktop computer or other computer system and may be communicatively coupled to the electronic reader the scale the optional keypad actuation robot the docking station the display the digital camera and the speaker . Computers are discussed in more detail hereinafter.

In an embodiment the first auditing station may have other apparatus or components. For example in an embodiment the docking station may further comprise a speaker not shown for auditing a microphone function of the electronic device . In an embodiment the docking station may further comprise a vibration sensor not shown for example an accelerometer. In an embodiment two or more of the components described above as separate may be integrated together in a single package or in a single device.

When making an initial shipment of a new model of electronic device for example a new model of a mobile phone it is desirable to audit the product that is going to be shipped. The product comprises the electronic device itself but also the point of sale package in which the device is delivered to the end customer and the master carton in which a plurality of devices are shipped to a retail location or a business. Errors or problems in any one of these three things can diminish acceptance of the new product. For example a point of sale package that has a rip through the exterior of the package may create a negative impression. A mismatch between the identification information on the master carton and the identification information on one or more of the point of sale packages contained by the master carton can cause problems for either the retail store or the business that receives the master carton which may create a negative impression. As another example a mobile phone that is delivered with the wrong preferred roaming list PRL installed in a memory of the mobile phone may provide sub standard communication service.

The first auditing station may suitably be used to perform automated audits of electronic devices point of sale packages and master cartons. When a problem is discovered by the first auditing system a notification of the problem may be presented for example by the display presenting a message to an operator of the first auditing station by the speaker emitting an audible alert tone to call the operator to the first auditing station and or by sending an email message to a responsible auditor and or manager.

Turning now to use of the electronic sensor and the electronic reader is described. The electronic sensor and electronic reader may be employed to electronically read identification information and other information on one or more of the electronic devices a point of sale package and or a master carton . In an embodiment the electronic sensor and the electronic reader may be integrated in a single device for example as a scanner gun. The electronic device may comprise a plurality of labels or tags graphically representing identification information for example bar codes two dimensional bar codes such as ShotCodes or Semacodes or other visible identification codes. The point of sale package may contain a charger one or more documents and other accessories.

Alternatively the electronic device may comprise one or more radio frequency identification RFID tags that contain identification information. In an embodiment the electronic device may comprise a serial number a stock keeping unit SKU number a universal product code UPC and or other identification information. The identification information may be adhered to the body of the electronic device for example inside a battery compartment of the electronic device . The electronic sensor may read and send the identification information to the electronic reader for interpretation or decoding.

In an embodiment the electronic device comprises a memory that stores a serial number a preferred roaming list and one or more settings . An operator may pass the electronic sensor over the identification information to cause the electronic reader to read this identification information. The docking station may electronically access the memory and read the serial number . In an embodiment the serial number may be an electronic serial number ESN . Both the identification information and the serial number may be transmitted by the processor to the auditing computer for storage in the data store . The identification information read by the electronic reader and the identification information accessed by the docking station may be sent to the processor and the processor compares the identification information to determine if the serial number stored in the memory of the electronic device agrees with the serial number . If a miscompare is determined the processor may cause a notification of the error to be presented for example one or more of causing an audio alert to be emitted by the speaker causing a textual message to be presented on the display and or to send an email to a responsible auditer and or manager.

The operator may pass the electronic sensor over the identification information on the point of sale package as well as over the identification information on the master carton. In an embodiment the master carton may have identification information associated with each of the electronic devices contained within the master carton located on the outside of the master carton. This identification information may be sent by the electronic reader to the processor and the processor may transmit the identification information to the auditing computer for storage in the data store . The processor compares the serial numbers to determine if the serial numbers are in agreement. When the serial numbers are not in agreement that is when a miscompare occurs the processor causes a notification of the error to be presented as described above.

Likewise the processor may compare the stock keeping unit numbers to determine if the stock keeping unit numbers are in agreement. When the stock keeping unit numbers are not in agreement when a miscompare occurs the processor causes a notification of the error to be presented as described above. Likewise the processor may compare the universal product codes to determine if the universal product codes are in agreement. When the universal product codes are not in agreement when a miscompare occurs the processor causes a notification of the error to be presented as described above.

It is understood that in some embodiments one or more of the serial numbers stock keeping unit numbers and universal product codes may be omitted from one or more of the electronic devices the point of sale package and the master carton and the comparison operations of the processor would be adapted accordingly. In response to the notification of the error a responsible auditor may take action to remedy the error. This action may include correcting the error by replacing one or more of the identification information for example removing an erroneous stock keeping unit number from the point of sale package and replacing with a correct stock keeping unit number . The action may further include performing a root cause analysis to discover how the erroneous stock keeping unit number happened to be applied to the point of sale package whereby to correct a possible error in the process so that the error does not recur.

Turning again to in an embodiment the point of sale package either with the electronic device contained or not contained by the package may be weighed by the scale . The scale may transmit an indication of the measured weight of the point of sale package to the processor . Based on a comparison of the measured weight of the point of sale package and an expected weight the processor may determine whether the intended accessories and documentation are contained in the point of sale package . Such accessories may comprise one or more of a battery charger a carrying case an earpiece and other accessories. The documentation may include a user s manual safety warning information promotional sales literature and other documentation.

In an embodiment a digital photograph of the contents of the point of sale package may be created either by the digital camera or by the camera of the electronic device and the image may be analyzed by the processor to determine whether the accessories and documentation are contained in the point of sale package . The image may also be analyzed to determine if the camera of the electronic device meets design and or quality standards for example by comparing to a stored image file. In an embodiment the determination of whether the point of sale package contains the intended accessories and documentation may be based both on weighing the point of sale package and on the analysis of an image of the point of sale package whether the image is produced by the digital camera or by the camera of the electronic device .

A tester may press the keys of the electronic device and the processor and or the auditing application may determine if each of the keys of the electronic device has been pressed and or how many times each of the keys of the electronic device has been pressed. In an embodiment a test may entail pressing each of the keys of the electronic device two times. As the keys are pressed the processor and or the auditing application may provide feedback to the tester via the display about which keys have been pressed once and which keys have been pressed twice. Alternatively or in combination the processor and or the auditing application may provide feedback to the tester via the display about which keys have not yet been pressed once and which keys have not yet been pressed twice. Alternatively the processor may indicate a different number of times the keys of the electronic device have been pressed and or a different number of times remain for the keys of the electronic device to be pressed. In response to the pressing of the keys a presentation for example a textual presentation on the display providing key press event feedback may be adapted for by example removing keys from a presented list of expected key press events or adding keys to a presented list of detected key press events.

Formerly testers may have entered a specific key sequence that used all of the keys and read back a textual message from a screen of the electronic device for example typing the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog. This may have been a tedious and time consuming activity. This functionality of the processor and or the auditing application may reduce the time that a tester may need to spend to test the keys. Based on the processor and or the auditing application prompting the tester to enter those keys not yet pressed the system can promote the pressing of each button without the tester needing to press the keys in the customary order.

In an embodiment the optional keypad actuation robot may actuate each of the keys of the electronic device . The optional keypad actuation robot may send these inputs to the processor and the processor may determine whether the keys are providing the expected inputs. This test may involve the optional keypad actuation robot pressing each key at least two times and the processor verifying that two distinct inputs for each key are received. This test may involve verifying that pressing a c key results in receiving a c input and discriminating this from the case where pressing the c key results in receiving a k input or other unrelated input. While the actuation component shown in and described above is referred to as the optional keypad actuation robot it is understood that other actuation devices may be employed to stimulate the keypad of the electronic device . For example an electro mechanical actuator may be commanded by the processor to sequence through key presses of each key two or more times and the processor may read the inputs received via the application programming interface of the electronic device for example using a cable using the docking station or using another communication link.

The electronic device may be plugged into the docking station to promote the processor reading information from the electronic device via the docking station for example the serial number the preferred roaming list the settings and other information. The processor may execute test routines that activate a variety of functions of the electronic device . The processor may command the electronic device to playback an audio via a speaker of the electronic device the microphone may pick up the acoustic signal emitted by the speaker and the processor may compare the signal received by the microphone to an expected amplitude and or template audio. The processor may make an adjustment of a speaker volume of the electronic device based on the comparison of the signal received by the microphone to the expected amplitude.

The processor may command the electronic device to receive an acoustic signal via a microphone of the electronic device for example an acoustic signal emitted by a speaker portion of the docking station or by the speaker . The processor may compare the signal received by the microphone of the electronic device to an expected amplitude and or template audio and may adjust a sensitivity or other parameter of the microphone of the electronic device . Alternatively if the electronic device does not perform within specifications the processor may provide a notification via an aural alert and or an email message to prompt a responsible auditor and or manager to address the subject problem. In an embodiment the docking station may be a mechanical structure for holding the electronic device and electronic communication with the electronic device may be provided by one or more cables between the processor and the electronic device . In an embodiment the docking station may comprise a connector into which a mechanical structure of the docking station guides one or more contactors of the electronic device whereby electronic communications between the electronic device and the docking station and or the processor may be provided.

The processor may command a camera of the electronic device to take a photograph. The processor may then read an image file created by the camera from the memory of the electronic device and analyze this image file for quality. If the image file does not provide the specified quality the processor may provide a notification via an aural alert and or an email message to prompt a responsible auditor and or manager to address the problem. The processor may command the digital camera to take a digital photograph of the electronic device and or of the point of sale package . The processor may analyze the image file created by the digital camera for compliance with cosmetic standards. If the electronic device the point of sale package and or the master carton do not comply with cosmetic standards the processor may provide a notification via an aural alert and or an email message to prompt a responsible auditor and or manager to address the problem. In an embodiment the processor may command the camera of the electronic device to take a digital picture of the point of sale package . The processor may analyze the image file created by the camera of the electronic device to determine both that the camera functions and that the point of sale package complies with cosmetic standards.

In an embodiment the processor may command a vibrator of the electronic device to activate. An optional vibration sensor not shown may detect the vibration of the electronic device and provide feedback about this vibration to the processor for use in validating the functionality of the vibrator. Alternatively in an embodiment the microphone may detect an audible sound of the vibration of the vibrator and provide feedback about this audible sound to the processor for use in validating the functionality of the vibrator.

The auditing of the electronic device the point of sale package and or the master carton may be automatically carried out by the processor by executing one or more auditing programs and or scripts. The results of auditing one or more electronic devices may be transmitted by the processor to the auditing computer . The display and or the speaker may be employed to alert a responsible auditor of a problem discovered while auditing the electronic device the point of sale package and or the master carton . The responsible auditor may enter information at a terminal coupled to the processor for example to write up a report of the identified problem to take corrective action and or to perform root cause analysis.

The auditing computer may store audit results and audit data in the first data store and or in a second data store . The auditing computer may be coupled to the second data store via a network . The network may be a public network a private network or a combination thereof. The auditing computer may execute an auditing application that processes the audit results and or audit data before it is stored in the data store . The auditing application may support a variety of search and or analysis functions that may be invoked remotely and that promote analyzing the audit results and or audit data to assist troubleshooting any future problems that may be experienced with the electronic device after it has been deployed to the end user for example a customer.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first serial number on the electronic device is read electronically. For example a bar code or two dimensional bar code placed on the inside battery cover is read by the electronic sensor and the electronic reader . At block a second serial number located on a point of sale package associated with the electronic device is read electronically in a like manner. At block a third serial number stored in a memory of the electronic device is electronically read by the docking station and or via a cable attached between the processor and the electronic device . In an embodiment a fourth serial number located on a master carton associated with the electronic device is read electronically in a like manner. A plurality of serial numbers and other identification information may be located on the outside of the master carton for example serial numbers and or identifications of each of the electronic devices contained by the master carton. At block the first serial number the second serial number the third serial number and optionally the fourth serial number are stored in a non volatile memory separate from the electronic device . The serial numbers may be stored in a memory forming part of the processor stored in the first data store and or stored in the second data store .

At block the first serial number the second serial number the third serial number and optionally the fourth serial number are automatically compared. For example the processor compares the serial numbers to determine that the serial numbers are all identical. If the serial numbers are not identical the processor determines that a miscompare has occurred.

At block a software version identity is automatically read from the memory of the electronic device for example a firmware identity. The software version identity may be read by the docking station or by the processor coupled to the electronic device by an electrical cord or cable. At block the software version identity is automatically compared to an approved software version identity. For example the processor compares the software version identity read from the memory to an approved software version identity stored in the processor . If the software version identity and the approved software version identity are not identical the processor determines that a miscompare has occurred. At block if a miscompare of either serial numbers or software version identities occurs a notification of an error is automatically presented for example presenting a message on the display sounding an alert tone on the speaker and or sending an email to an auditor and or a manager.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first serial number on a mobile phone is read electronically. For example a bar code or two dimensional bar code placed on the inside battery cover is read by the electronic sensor and the electronic reader . At block a second serial number located on a point of sale package associated with the mobile phone is read electronically in a like manner. At block a third serial number stored in a memory of the mobile phone is electronically read by the docking station and or via a cable attached between the processor and the electronic device . In an embodiment a fourth serial number located on a master carton associated with the mobile phone is read electronically in a like manner. At block the first serial number the second serial number the third serial number and optionally the fourth serial number are stored in a non volatile memory separate from the electronic device . The serial numbers may be stored in a memory forming part of the processor stored in the data store and or stored in the data store .

At block the first serial number the second serial number the third serial number and optionally the fourth serial number are automatically compared. For example the processor compares the serial numbers to determine that the serial numbers are all identical. If the serial numbers are not identical the processor determines that a miscompare has occurred.

At block a preferred roaming list is automatically read from a memory of the mobile phone. At block the content of the preferred roaming list is compared to an approved roaming list for example the processor compares the preferred roaming list read from the mobile phone to an approved preferred roaming list stored in a memory coupled to the processor . At block when a miscompare occurs for example a miscompare among the serial numbers at block or a miscompare between the read preferred roaming list and the approved preferred roaming list at block a notification is automatically presented.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first stock keeping unit number located on a mobile phone is read electronically. For example a bar code or two dimensional bar code placed on the inside battery cover is read by the electronic sensor and the electronic reader . At block a second stock keeping unit number located on a package containing the mobile phone is read electronically in a like manner. In an embodiment a third stock keeping unit number located on a master carton containing a plurality of packages is read electronically in a like manner. At block the first stock keeping unit number the second stock keeping unit number and optionally the third stock keeping unit number are stored in a non transitory memory for example stored in a non volatile memory coupled to the processor stored in the data store and or stored in the data store . At block the stock keeping unit numbers are automatically compared. For example the processor compares the stock keeping unit numbers. At block when the stock keeping unit numbers miscompare a first notification of an error is automatically presented.

At block the mobile phone is automatically commanded to take a picture with a camera of the mobile phone. At block a picture file created on the mobile phone during the course of taking the picture is electronically read from the mobile phone for example by the docking station and or by the processor . At block the picture file is automatically analyzed. For example the processor analyzes the picture file. The processor may compare the picture file to a stored authoritative picture file and determine if the read picture file is sufficiently similar to the authoritative picture file. The processor may analyze the picture file using a digital image processing algorithm to determine if the stored digital image is in focus. At block when the analysis of the picture file identifies a fault in the picture file a second notification of an error is automatically presented.

Turning now to and a method is described. At block one or more information on labels affixed to the electronic device for example identification information are automatically read corresponding identification information on labels affixed to the point of sale package associated with the electronic device are automatically read and these identification information items are compared to determine if the associated identification information items match. The identification information may be provided as bar codes two dimensional codes or other representation and the identification information may be read by using a hand held scanning device such as the electronic reader . For example an electronic serial number label affixed to the interior or exterior of the electronic device is read an electronic serial number label affixed to the point of sale package is read and the two values of the electronic serial number are compared by the system and or the auditing station for example by the processor . If the two values are not substantially identical an error may be reported by the automated auditing system for example a miscompare message may be presented on the display and or an aural alert may be sounded by the speaker . Likewise other identification information may be compared for example stock keeping unit SKU numbers mobile subscriber identity MSID numbers and other codes may be compared in block . If any miscompares occur the system may record and store the miscompare event for analysis and or historical purposes.

At block a battery is installed into the electronic device and the electronic device is powered on for example by activating a switch on the electronic device . At block a casing and display of the electronic device are inspected for cosmetic defects such as scratches gouges chips breakage and other. If the electronic device exhibits unacceptable cosmetic defects the electronic device may be sent back to a supplier. Additionally a record of the rejection of the electronic device for cosmetic defect may be recorded and stored using the automated auditing system for example by a tester using a keyboard not shown of the auditing station . In an embodiment the casing and display of the electronic device may be inspected by taking a digital picture of the electronic device and analyzing the resultant digital image to identify cosmetic defects.

At block information associated with the electronic device is verified. The system may automatically navigate user interface menus of the electronic device for example by using an application programming interface API provided by the user interface to read information associated with the electronic device for example an electronic serial number ESN a mobile subscriber identity MSID and or other electronically stored information. The system may read information stored on the electronic device such as a pre defined address book associated with the electronic device that may have been purchased by an enterprise for use by its employees. The pre defined address book may include contact information for key managers and or colleagues. The pre defined address book may include contact information for customers for example customers along a delivery route. After reading the information from the electronic device the system may validate this information by comparing it to a table of design and or manufacturing specifications. If the information miscompares with the design and or manufacturing specifications an alert may be activated to cue a tester to the error. Additionally if the information miscompares to the design and or manufacturing specifications the miscompare event and the information read from the electronic device may be stored for example in the data store .

At block initial settings of the electronic device are verified. The system may automatically navigate user interface menus of the electronic device for example by using an application programming interface provided by the user interface to read initial settings of the electronic device . For example system may read initial settings of a volume of a speaker device of the electronic device . The system may read initial settings of a language preference. The system may read initial settings of a display text size. The system may read other initial settings from the electronic device . After reading the initial settings from the electronic device the system may validate the initial settings by comparing them to a table of design and or manufacturing specifications. If the initial settings miscompare with the design and or manufacturing specifications an alert may be activated to cue a tester to the error. Additionally if the initial settings miscompare to the design and or manufacturing specifications the miscompare event and the initial settings read from the electronic device may be stored for example in the data store .

At block operation of a camera device of the electronic device is verified. The system may automatically cause the camera device to take a picture automatically read an image file created by the electronic device based on the picture taken by the camera device and compare the image file to a design and or manufacturing specification for the image file. If the image file miscompares to the design and or manufacturing specification for the image file an alert may be activated to cue the tester to the error and the image file created by the electronic device may be stored for example in the data store .

At block operation of at least one of a speaker device and an earpiece output of the electronic device is verified. The system may automatically play back an audio signal via the speaker device of the electronic device and or an earpiece output of the electronic device . The system may listen for the audio output of the speaker device using the microphone . The system may sense the output of the earpiece output of the electronic device for example via a contact of the docking station . The system may compare the received audio output of the speaker device and or the earpiece output to a design and or manufacturing specification for the audio output. If the received audio output miscompares to the design and or manufacturing specification for the audio output an alert may be activated to cue the tester to the error and the audio output may be stored for example in the data store .

At block operation of a vibrator device of the electronic device is verified. The system may actuate the vibrator device for example using an application programming interface of the electronic device . The system may sense the mechanical vibration of the vibrator device using a mechanical sensor for example an accelerometer coupled to the docking station or by sensing with the microphone the acoustic energy emitted by the vibration of the vibrator device. If the system does not sense any mechanical vibration of the vibrator device an alert may be activated to cue the tester to the error and the error may be stored for example in the data store .

At block functionality of keys of the electronic device are verified. In an embodiment the keys of the electronic device may be electro mechanical buttons. Alternatively in an embodiment the keys of the electronic device may be provided as touch sensitive areas on a display of the electronic device . In an embodiment the electronic device may provide a combination of electro mechanical keys and touch sensitive areas. The system may actuate functionality of the keys using an application programming interface of the electronic device . Alternatively the tester may physically press the keys. Alternatively the system may comprise the optional keypad actuation robot and the optional keypad actuation robot under automatic control of the system and or of the auditing station may actuate the functionality of the keys.

The system receives feedback about the key actuations for example electrical signals and optional tones generated by the key actuations. The system determines if the functionality of the keys is satisfactory. If the key functionality is unsatisfactory an alert may be activated to cue the tester to the error and an error event identifying the faulty key and or keys may be stored in the data store . In an embodiment the system and or the auditing station may present an indication of progress of the key press test on the display . For example the display may indicate every key that has completed testing. The display may indicate every key that has been pressed once and every key that has been pressed twice. The display may provide a list of keys which have not yet been pressed twice.

At block the contents of the point of sale package is verified. The point of sale package may be expected to contain the electronic device the charger one or more documents and possibly additional items and or accessories. In an embodiment the contents of the point of sale package may be verified by weighing the point of sale package and comparing to an expected weight of a correctly stocked point of sale package . If the sensed weight of the point of sale package miscompares to the expected weight an alert may be activated to cue the tester to the error and the sensed weight may be stored in the data store .

At block the point of sale package is inspected for cosmetic defects. If the point of sale package exhibits unacceptable cosmetic defects a record of the defect may be stored in the data store . In an embodiment the point of sale package may be inspected by taking a digital picture of the point of sale package and analyzing the resultant digital image to identify cosmetic defects. At block an identification information item on the master carton is read for example using the electronic reader and the identification information item on the master carton is compared with an associated code on the point of sale package . For example the serial number on the master carton is compared with the serial number on the point of sale package the stock keeping unit number on the master carton is compared with the stock keeping unit number on the point of sale package and or the universal product code on the master carton is compared with the universal product code on the point of sale package . When any identification information on the master carton miscompares with the corresponding identification information on the point of sale package an alert may be presented to the tester and a record of the miscompare may be stored in the data store .

It is understood that the steps of method need not follow the order in which they are depicted in and and in an embodiment the order of some steps may be shifted. Additionally in an embodiment some of the steps of method may be combined. The method may be repeated for a plurality of electronic devices and a plurality of master cartons . The electronic devices may be a selected sample for example the first 100 units of a new mobile phone device being shipped to retail stores or from an original equipment manufacturer to a communication service provider. After completion of the method for a single instance of the electronic device a summary result record may be stored in the data store .

The data store after completion of testing of all of the electronic devices during a testing session may comprise a set of test result data data that includes the results of each test of each electronic device as well as more specific details about individual test step failures. This test result data may be analyzed to determine an overall pass fail ratio for a subject group of electronic devices . This test result data may further be analyzed to perform more specific statistical analysis to determine for example that the keypads of electronic devices shipped by a specific original equipment manufacturer are exhibiting a higher failure rate than corresponding keypads of electronic devices shipped by a different original equipment manufacturer. The results of the more specific analysis may be used to open a dialogue with the original equipment manufacturer producing electronic devices exhibiting a higher keyboard failure rate for example to persuade the subject original equipment manufacturer to implement more aggressive process controls or to more directly supervise a vendor of component parts.

Other examples of error trend analysis may include a variety of circumstances and or failures. For example an increased incidence of erroneous preferred roaming list PRL configurations in the electronic device may be identified and corrected. An increased incidence of speaker and or microphone failures of the electronic device may be identified and corrected. An increased incidence of miscompare between identification information on labels affixed to the electronic device identification information on the point of sale package and identification information on the master carton may be identified and corrected. It is contemplated that the results of the testing following method may be analyzed to identify other issues with the electronic devices the point of sale packages and or the master cartons . The automated automation system may promote avoidance of shipping electronic devices that may create a negative impression on customers. Additionally the automated system may promote rapid understanding and correction of process problems.

Turning now to a mobile device is described. While the mobile device is illustrated in as a mobile phone it is understood that the mobile device may take other forms such as personal digital assistant media player and other forms. In an embodiment the electronic device described above may correspond substantially to the mobile device .

The mobile device comprises a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may comprise a speaker and a microphone . The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory storage and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

