---

title: Image forming apparatus having display device displaying first group of functions including functions of higher frequency of use and second group of functions including functions of lower frequency of use
abstract: An image forming apparatus having a plurality of functions and executing a function designated from the plurality of functions includes a display device for displaying a function selection image allowing a user to designate any of the plurality of functions. The display device displays a first group of functions of which frequency of use is higher than a prescribed threshold value, and a second group of functions of which frequency of use is not higher than the threshold value, on mutually different function selection images, with a display item indicating that functions are displayed distinguished from each other. The image forming apparatus further includes: a designating device receiving a user input designating any of the plurality of functions displayed by the display device; and an image forming unit executing the function designated by the input received by the designating device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930823&OS=08930823&RS=08930823
owner: Sharp Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08930823
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100720
---
This nonprovisional application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a on Patent Application No. 2009 175101 filed in Japan on Jul. 28 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to an image forming apparatus forming an image on a recording medium typically on a sheet of recording paper based on image data using for example electrophotography. More specifically the present invention relates to an image forming apparatus having a large number of functions allowing the user to easily select a desired function from the large number of functions.

It has become increasingly common to connect an image forming apparatus having a printer function or a copy function to a network to allow use by a plurality of users. Further the number of apparatuses having a plurality of basic functions modes such as a copy function a facsimile function hereinafter facsimile may also be denoted as FAX or fax a network supported printer function and a scanner function such as MFPs multi function peripherals is increasing.

In such a multi function peripheral each user selects a basic function mode and sets a function of duplex two sided printing or collective printing such as 2 in 1 by which two pages of an original document are printed on one sheet or 4 in 1 by which four pages of an original document are printed on one sheet whereby images are formed on sheets of paper in a desired manner. Sometimes a function is selected and for the selected function a detailed function is further selected. In such a case we may consider that the function selection menu has a hierarchy. Specifically when a function of color adjustment is selected from a special function menu a menu of a lower layer is displayed and the user may select a detailed function from the submenu. Here the menu of lower layer includes for example three functions of RGB adjustment color balance and background erasure. 

In order to meet various and many demands of users recent image forming apparatuses come to have a larger number of higher functions. As a result the image forming apparatuses come to have a huge number of functions resulting in a complicated menu configuration a hierarchical menu configuration as described above . Further in addition to the hierarchical menu configuration as described above a menu belonging to one layer may consist of a plurality of pages. In such a case it is necessary to find a page having a desired function described thereon from among the plurality of pages and to designate the desired function on the page.

When such a multifunction peripheral image forming apparatus is used for example it is necessary for the user to perform the following operations. First the user selects the copy mode. The user inputs image data using a scanner unit. Then the user carries out various operations on an operation panel to designate desired functions so that an image forming process collection or the like is executed and the result is printed by an image forming unit on a sheet of recording paper. Since the image forming apparatus comes to have higher and larger number of functions it is necessary for the user to select a desired function from among a huge number of functions.

It is often the case that a user selects one function frequently. For such a user a menu image an image allowing selection of functions includes display of many unnecessary functions. Therefore the user feels it troublesome to select the desired function possibly because many menu images including displays of unnecessary functions are displayed before the user reaches a menu image allowing selection of a desired function.

Japanese Patent Laying Open No. 7 13732 hereinafter referred to as 732 Reference discloses a method of display letting the user know that an icon indicating a program or indicating a combination of a program and data has not been used for a long time in an information processing system such as a personal computer. According to the icon display method disclosed in 732 Reference icons are displayed on a display screen. When a user selectively designates a displayed icon information corresponding to the icon is designated. According to the display method elapsed time after the last designation of an icon is measured. If the counted time exceeds a first specific time the manner of display of the icon is changed to give an alarm. Further if the measured time exceeds a second specific time longer than the first specific time the alarm displayed icon is erased from the display screen.

According to the icon display method the user can grasp information icon not used for a prescribed elapse time. Further since display of an icon that is not used can be erased from the display screen the display screen can be used efficiently.

The icon display method disclosed in 732 Reference however has the following problem. Specifically the icon that is not used is eventually not displayed on the display screen. If the user wishes to use the icon again it is necessary to form the icon again. In other words simply by deleting information icon that is not used for a prescribed time period from the display screen it is impossible to appropriately meet the demand of the user to use the icon again.

It is unclear whether such a method of icon display can be applied to selection of a function in an image forming apparatus that comes to have a larger number of higher functions. Even if it is applied what is attained is only an erasure of a function that has not been used for a long time from the selection image. After the display of the function is erased it is impossible for the user to select the function. Therefore it is unclear if the application solves the problem of troublesome work in selecting the desired function by the user in an image forming apparatus. In addition the application possibly leads to inconvenience for the user if he she wishes to select the function.

If the number of icons functions of image forming apparatus increases it becomes difficult for the user to determine when an icon is simply erased from the selection image whether the icon is erased or the icon is not erased but displayed on some other selection image. Therefore the work of selecting a desired function is still troublesome for the user.

Therefore an object of the present invention is to provide an image forming apparatus having various and many functions that are appropriately selected and used by a user allowing the user to easily select a desired function from among the large number of functions as well as to provide a method of displaying a function selection image in the image forming apparatus.

The present invention provides an image forming apparatus having a plurality of functions and executing a function designated from the plurality of functions. The image forming apparatus includes a display device displaying a function selection image allowing a user to designate any of the plurality of functions. The display device displays a first group of functions of which frequency of use is higher than a prescribed threshold value and a second group of functions of which frequency of use is not higher than the threshold value on mutually different function selection images with a display item indicating that functions are displayed distinguished from each other. The image forming apparatus further includes a designating device connected to the display device for receiving a user input designating any of the plurality of functions displayed by the display device and an image forming unit connected to the designating device for executing the function designated by the input received by the designating device.

In the image forming apparatus when one function is designated as a function to be used from a plurality of functions functions belonging to the first group of high frequency of use and functions belonging to the second group of low frequency of use are displayed on separate function selection images with display items indicating that the functions are displayed in distinguished manner. Therefore the user can easily designate a function he she wants to use. The user can recognize that the functions that are frequently used and the functions that are not frequently used are displayed distinguished from each other and therefore the user can easily find and designate a desired function even if the function is not frequently used. Specifically in the image forming apparatus a function selection image in which the manner of display is changed appropriately reflecting the use history of the user is displayed in a manner distinguished in accordance with the frequency of designation use of each function. As a result in an image forming apparatus having various and many functions that are appropriately selected and used by a user the user can easily select a function he she wants to use from the large number of functions.

According to a second aspect the present invention provides in an image forming apparatus having a plurality of functions and executing a function designated from the plurality of functions a method of displaying a function selection image. The method includes the step of displaying a function selection image allowing a user to designate any of the plurality of functions. The display step displays a first group of functions of which frequency of use is higher than a prescribed threshold value and a second group of functions of which frequency of use is not higher than the threshold value on mutually different function selection images with a display item indicating that functions are displayed distinguished from each other. The method further includes the steps of receiving a user input designating any of the plurality of functions displayed at the display step and executing the function designated by the input received at the receiving step and forming an image on a recording medium.

By the image forming apparatus and the method of the present invention when various and many functions are provided and the functions are appropriately selected and used by the user the manner of display of the function selection image is changed appropriately reflecting the use history of functions by the user whereby the user can easily select a desired function from the large number of functions.

The foregoing and other objects features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the following description the same components are denoted by the same reference characters. Their functions and names are also the same. Therefore detailed description thereof will not be repeated. In the following description it is assumed that the image forming apparatus in accordance with the present invention is an MFP. The present invention however is not limited thereto. The image forming apparatus may be any device that allows selection of a desired function from a plurality of functions using a menu image function selection image displayed on a display panel. In the following description facsimile fax and FAX are used not specifically distinguished from each other.

Referring to an image forming apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention includes a document reading unit an image forming unit a paper feed unit and a discharge processing device . In the following operations in the copy mode facsimile mode and scanner mode of image forming apparatus MFP will be described as description of internal configuration of image forming apparatus . These are basic functions of image forming apparatus .

In the copy mode mainly document reading unit also referred to as a scanner unit and image forming unit operate to realize the copy function.

In image forming apparatus a document placed on a platen is read by document reading unit as image data and the read image data is input to CPU implemented for example by a microcomputer shown in . In CPU the image data is subjected to various image processing operations by the functions designated by a user logged in to image forming apparatus . The resulting image data is output to image forming unit .

Image forming unit is for printing an image of the document represented by the image data on a recording medium in most case on a sheet of recording paper . Image forming unit includes by way of example a photoreceptor drum a charger a laser scanning unit hereinafter also denoted as LSU a developer a transfer device a cleaning device a fixing device and a neutralizer not shown.

In image forming unit a main feeding path and a reverse feeding path are provided and a sheet of recording paper fed from paper feed unit is fed along main feeding path . Paper feed unit draws out sheets of recording paper stacked on a paper feed cassette or on a manual feed tray one by one and feeds the sheet of paper to main feeding path of image forming unit .

While the sheet of recording paper is fed along main feeding path of image forming unit the sheet passes between photoreceptor drum and transfer device and further passes through fixing device whereby printing is done on the sheet of recording paper.

Photoreceptor drum rotates in one direction and its surface is cleaned by cleaning device and the neutralizer and thereafter uniformly charged by charger .

LSU modulates the laser beam based on the image data to be printed and repeatedly scans the surface of photoreceptor drum with the laser beam in a main scanning direction whereby an electrostatic latent image is formed on the surface of photoreceptor drum .

Developer develops the electrostatic latent image by supplying toner to the surface of photoreceptor drum and thus a toner image is formed on the surface of photoreceptor drum .

Transfer device transfers the toner image on the surface of photoreceptor drum to the sheet of recording paper passing between transfer device and the photoreceptor drum .

Fixing device includes a heating roller for heating the sheet of recording paper and a pressure roller for pressing the sheet of recording paper. As the sheet of recording paper is heated by heating roller and pressed by pressure roller to heating roller the toner image is fixed on the sheet of recording paper. A heater not shown in heating roller is heated by electric power supplied to fixing device . By controlling power supply to the heater the temperature of heating roller is maintained at a temperature appropriate for fixing.

At a position of connection between main feeding path and reverse feeding path a separation pawl is arranged. When printing is done only on one side of the sheet of recording paper separation pawl is so positioned that the sheet of recording paper fed from fixing device is guided to paper discharge tray or to discharge processing device .

When printing is done on both sides of the sheet of recording paper separation pawl is turned to a prescribed direction so that the sheet of recording paper is guided to reverse feeding path . The sheet of recording paper passes through reverse feeding path turned upside down and again fed to main feeding path and while it is again fed along main feeding path printing is done on its rear surface.

The sheet of recording paper on which printing is done in the above described manner is guided to discharge tray or to discharge processing device and discharged to discharge tray or to any of the discharge trays of discharge processing device .

In discharge processing device finishing process is executed when a finishing function which will be described later is designated. The finishing process includes any of a process of sorting a plurality of printed sheets of paper to be output to different discharge trays a process of punching each sheet of recording paper and a process of stapling the sheets of recording paper or an arbitrary combination of these processes. Assume that a number of copies of the printing are to be prepared. In that case sheets of recording paper are sorted and discharged to paper discharge trays such that each tray contains each set of printed sheets sorting function is designated and the set of printed sheets in each tray is stapled stapling function is designated or punched punching function is designated whereby copies of prints are prepared. In addition a grouping function is also provided for grouping the prints.

In the facsimile mode document reading unit scanner unit and a FAX communication unit mainly operate for a transmission operation and FAX communication unit and image forming unit mainly operate for a reception operation whereby the facsimile function is realized. The operations of image forming apparatus in the Internet facsimile communication mode and the electronic mail communication mode scan to mail are substantially similar though the destination is not a FAX number but a computer address or a mail address or the communication interface is not FAX communication unit but network interface network IF .

In image forming apparatus the user designates the facsimile mode and places a document on a platen. The document is read by a document reading unit as image data and the read image data is input to CPU shown in . At CPU the image data is subjected various image processing operations. The resulting image data is output to the FAX communication unit FAX communication unit of .

FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus on the transmitting side connects a line to a designated transmission destination converts the image data to communication data in compliance with facsimile transmission standard and transmits the converted data to a facsimile machine on the receiving side. In the following description it is assumed that the facsimile machine on the receiving side is also an apparatus of the same type as image forming apparatus and the transmitting and receiving operations of image forming apparatus will be described together.

When the line is connected FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus on the receiving side detects a communication request signal from the transmitting side and transmits an acknowledgement signal. Thereafter by way of example FAX communication units of the transmitting side and receiving side pass performance information supported by each other determine highest possible speed of communication and method of coding code correction of image data and set the method of communication of modems. Then using the image signal format in accordance with the communication method data is transmitted from FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus on the transmitting side to FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus on the receiving side. When transmission ends the line is disconnected.

FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus on the receiving side converts the received data to image data and passes the data to image forming unit . Image forming unit prints an image of a document represented by the image data converted from the received data on a sheet of recording paper in a manner similar to the operation in the copy mode described above. A configuration in which the received data is converted to image data not by FAX communication unit but by image forming unit is also possible.

In the scanner mode mainly by the operation of document reading unit scanner unit the scanner function is realized.

A document placed on a platen is read by document reading unit as image data. The read image data is input to CPU . The image data is subjected to various image processing operations at CPU . Based on the image data an image is formed on the sheet of recording paper by image forming unit . Alternatively the image data may be stored in a storage transmitted to another image forming apparatus connected to a public line through FAX communication unit or may be transmitted to a computer connected to a network through network IF .

In image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment when any of the various modes copy mode facsimile mode and scanner mode and possibly printer mode is selected and the user further selects a function for the selected mode a menu image appropriately reflecting the use history of the user is displayed on display panel . This allows the user to easily select a desired function from among a large number of functions. Specifically in image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment in order to enable the user to easily select a desired function the function selection menu displayed on display panel is maintained.

Such a characteristic is realized by the hardware configuration of image forming apparatus as well as the hardware and software controlling image forming apparatus . In the following first the hardware configuration control block included in image forming apparatus for executing the control will be described followed by the description of the software configuration program .

Referring to image forming apparatus includes an operating device allowing settings related to the copy function facsimile function and scanner function an ROM Read Only Memory for storing programs and the like a hard disk as a non volatile storage area capable of storing programs and data and an RAM Random Access Memory for providing a storage area when a program is executed. Various tables described later are stored in hard disk and when the power is turned on the tables are transferred to RAM .

Image forming apparatus further includes a bus connected to document reading unit image forming unit FAX communication unit operating device ROM hard disk and RAM and a CPU connected to bus for realizing general functions as the image forming apparatus.

ROM stores programs and data necessary for controlling operations of image forming apparatus . CPU controls image forming apparatus in accordance with the programs and data stored in ROM and executes control related to various functions of image forming apparatus .

As shown in to FAX communication unit of image forming apparatus a public line is connected for transmitting receiving image data and to network IF a network line is connected. To the network line a computer or the like using image forming apparatus as a network supported printer or a computer or the like capable of transmitting receiving a mail through the Internet may be connected.

RAM provides a function of a working memory for temporarily storing results of operations and processes by CPU and a function of a frame memory for storing image data.

Document reading unit image forming unit a flat plate shaped operation panel and display panel of operating device ROM hard disk and RAM are controlled by CPU executing a prescribed program.

Operating device includes a plate shaped operation panel arranged on the right side on a surface of operating device provided with hardware keys including ten keys and various other operation buttons and a display panel formed of a small touch panel liquid crystal display device arranged on the central to the left side of operating device . Operation panel and display panel are held in one housing and operating device is formed integrally to be one piece.

On display panel of operating device a state of operation of image forming apparatus a menu and a submenu a menu of a lower layer than the menu displaying a plurality of functions allowing the user to select a desired function a state of saving of functions of low frequency of use and the like are displayed. On a display area of liquid crystal display device of display panel selection buttons are displayed. When a portion where the selection button is displayed is pressed the pressed position is detected by the touch panel. By comparing the display position of the selection button and the position where the touch panel is pressed using a program setting of a function or instruction of an operation of image forming apparatus becomes possible.

Here saving of functions means moving a function or functions from a commonly used menu system to another menu system. In the present embodiment a function or functions of which frequency of use is low are moved from the commonly used menu system to a menu system referred to as a saved menu. As a result only the menu items of which frequency of use is relatively high are left in the commonly used menu system. If any function is saved a UI User Interface component typically a software button as a display item allowing transition from the commonly used menu image to the saved menu is displayed in the menu. By operating the UI component it is possible to access to a function included in the saved menu.

For the purpose of function saving described above in image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment a history of a function provided by image forming apparatus and used by a user is stored. At certain timing frequency of use of each function in an immediately preceding prescribed period in the present embodiment immediately preceding one month is calculated based on the history. Based on the result of calculation a function of which frequency of use is low is saved from the commonly used function selection image menu image . By way of example a function of which frequency of use is not higher than a prescribed threshold value in the present embodiment 0 is saved. The history is stored in hard disk or RAM and stored as a table including fields as shown in . The table is referred to as a function use table.

Referring to each row of the function use table includes a history number continuous natural number a field for storing user ID identified by CPU at the time of log in a field for storing a function used by a logged in user in the following referred to as a used function field a field for storing date and time when the function is used in the following referred to as a used date time field . The user ID uniquely identifies a user who uses the image forming apparatus for example company member number . The history number is allotted to the function in latest first or oldest first order of the date and time of use.

The used function field includes a field for storing a function ID for uniquely identifying a function provided by image forming apparatus and fields for storing large classification middle classification small classification and minute classification of the function hereinafter respectively referred to as large classification field middle classification field small classification field and minute classification field . The large classification belongs to the highest layer of hierarchy and the middle small and minute classifications belong to lower layers in this order. In a field containing NONE means that the classification of that layer does not exist for the function. Specifically the functions form layers of hierarchy. The hierarchical layer will be referred to as a menu layer. 

The large classification corresponds to the modes copy mode facsimile mode and scanner mode as the basic functions of image forming apparatus . By way of example in a function having function ID of C0102 the row of history No. 003 corresponds to the large classification of copy mode middle classification of special meaning a special function small classification of color adjustment one of the special functions and the minute classification of RGB adjustment one sub function of the color adjustment functions . Such classifications menu layers may be stored separately in a table classifying types of functions related to function IDs. In the row of history No. 005 document corresponding to document filing which will be described later of the large classification corresponds to a function of storing scan to folder or transmitting scan to mail image data scanned in the scanning mode.

In image forming apparatus the functions may simply be classified in hierarchical layers and the classifications are not limited to the above. In image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment even when a function is saved the hierarchical structure of the functions lower than the saved function are maintained. Specifically when a function is saved sub function or sub functions belonging to the lower layer are also saved and these functions are displayed reflecting the original hierarchical structure in the saved menu.

A function management table for managing state of saving of each function is stored in hard disk or RAM .

Referring to the function management table uses the function ID shown in as a key. For each function identified by the function ID the function management table includes a field for storing a name or ID of middle classification hereinafter referred to as classification field a field for storing a flag indicating whether or not the function is saved hereinafter simply referred to as a flag a field for storing if the function is in a saved state the date and time of saving hereinafter referred to as saved date time field and a field storing a submenu saved together with the function hereinafter referred to as a submenu field . In the present embodiment the middle classification is used as the classification of each function. The reason for this is that in the present embodiment the saved functions are collected using the middle classification as a unit. Specifically in the present embodiment for each middle classification a function belonging to the middle classification and of which frequency of use is low is saved. By way of example the saving process performed in the middle classification of special function and the saving process performed in the middle classification of finishing function are separate processes on different objects though the contents of processing are the same. It is naturally understood that the function may be saved using the large classification as a unit. In that case in classification field of the name or ID of large classification of each function is stored.

In the present embodiment if a function is not saved 0 is stored and if the function is saved 1 is stored in the flag. Accordingly a plurality of functions are classified to a first group having the flag 0 and a second group having the flag 1. The values stored in the flag may be reversed. Other values may be used provided that the two states can be distinguished from each other.

In the submenu field a sub function or sub functions belonging to lower layers of a certain function are stored. Referring to the submenu field will be described using the function identified by the function ID C0102 as an example. It is assumed that the function of which large classification is copy mode middle classification is special function and function ID is ID C0102 is the color adjustment function as a small classification among the special functions. Further it is assumed that the RGB adjustment function color balance function and background erasure function belong to a layer lower than the color adjustment function. Here if the color adjustment function is saved data meaning that the RGB adjustment function color balance function and background erasure function are also saved is stored in the submenu field. On the other hand even if the background erasure function as a function belonging to a layer lower than the color adjustment function satisfies conditions to be saved such conditions for saving a function will be referred to as saving conditions in the present specification unless the RGB function and the color balance function satisfy the saving conditions the color adjustment function as the function of an upper layer of these is not saved. Since the function is saved using the middle classification as a unit together with the small classification units belonging to the lower layer the hierarchical structure of the saved function and the functions of the lower layer can be maintained.

If certain conditions are satisfied a saved function is moved from the saved menu back to the commonly used menu. The movement from the saved menu to the commonly used menu will be referred to as restore. The conditions for restoring a function will be referred to as restore conditions in the present specification.

Image forming apparatus includes a job executing unit processing a job selected by the user from among the large number of functions an auto saving unit for saving a function that satisfies the saving conditions among the large number of functions an auto restoring unit for moving restoring a saved function that satisfies the restore conditions to the original commonly used menu image menu image allowing selection of a function and a resetting unit for resetting the menu image allowing selection of a function to the initial state. In the initial state the saved menu is empty. The job executing unit auto saving unit auto restoring unit and resetting unit may be implemented in hardware. In the present embodiment however these units are implemented by the software described in the following. The job processed by the job executing unit actually executes a function selected by the user in the mode selected by the user.

The programs of which control structures are shown in are subroutine programs including subroutines of a subroutine. Therefore when finished these programs return to a main routine program not shown.

CPU of image forming apparatus executes in parallel with such subroutine programs a program realizing general functions of a computer or an image forming apparatus. The program however is not directly related to the characteristic portions of the apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment and therefore details thereof will not be described here.

Referring to at step hereinafter step will be denoted as S CPU determines whether or not a user of image forming apparatus requested log in. Here a dialog urging input of a user ID and a password or an image for fingerprint input is displayed on display panel and if the user ID and the password are input or biometric information such as the fingerprint of the user is input CPU determines that the user requested log in. Based on the user ID and the password or the biometric information of the user CPU determines whether or not the user who requested log in is a user registered in an authentication source and if the user is a registered user it permits log in. If CPU permits log in of the user the determination at S is positive. If it is determined that the user of image forming apparatus has logged in YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends. The process may be repeated until a user successfully logs in.

At S CPU stores the input user ID or a user ID registered in correspondence with the biometric information of the user.

At S CPU determines whether or not the logged in user requested execution of a desired job using image forming apparatus . It is assumed that image forming apparatus has three modes that is copy mode fax image transmission mode and document filing mode it may additionally have the printer mode . If any of software buttons corresponding to the three modes displayed at the uppermost portion of display panel see is pressed CPU determines that a mode is designated by the user. If a mode is designated by the user CPU determines that a request is made to execute a job. Specifically CPU determines that switching of an image is requested to enable selection of a function in the designated mode to execute the job. If it is determined that a request is made to execute a job YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU reads the function management table . With the process of S CPU displays a main menu image image for selecting the middle classification function corresponding to the mode selected by the logged in user on display panel .

At S CPU determines whether or not the user requested selection of a function. By way of example while a main menu image function selection image of the copy mode of image forming apparatus is displayed when any of the software buttons for example special function selection button duplex copy selection button finishing selection button and filing selection button corresponding to the four functions corresponding to the middle classification of the function use table shown in displayed on display panel is pressed it is determined that the user requested selection of a function. If it is determined that the user requested selection of a function YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU displays a function selection image including the commonly used menu for selecting a function from among the functions middle classification functions selected by the user based on the read function management table. Here functions having 1 stored in the flag of the function management table are not displayed on the commonly used menu. Such functions will be the elements of the saved menu separate from the commonly used menu. Specifically the commonly used menu displays only the functions that are not saved. The saved menu is a menu displaying only the saved functions. Both in the commonly used menu and in the saved menu images make transition in accordance with the hierarchical structure described above. When the commonly used menu is displayed if there is any function not saved in the mode large classification selected by the user the functions not saved selectable are displayed on display panel as a list commonly used menu and a to saved functions button is displayed. When the to saved functions button is pressed the saved functions in the mode large classification for the function middle classification are displayed as a list saved menu on display panel . In this manner functions small classification of a function middle classification such as special function duplex copy finishing and filing selected after selection of the mode large classification including copy mode facsimile mode and scan mode are displayed on the commonly used menu or on the saved menu depending on the state of the flag in function management table .

At S CPU determines whether or not the user designated a function whether or not a function of the small classification or in some cases whether or not a function of the minute classification is designated . Here if a function button displayed on display panel is pressed and OK button or previous button is pressed CPU determines that the function is designated. If it is determined that the user designated a function YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process returns to S and waits until it is determined that the user designated a function. In order to avoid an endless loop before any function is designated by the user preferably a time out error process may be performed.

At S CPU writes the date and time of use and the using user ID logged in user ID for the designated function in the management use table.

At S CPU executes the auto restore process subroutine . The auto restore process means the process of moving a function or functions that satisfy restore conditions to the commonly used menu.

Details of the auto restore function will be described later. At S in the mode selected by the user CPU executes a job of processing the functions designated by the user.

Referring to at S CPU determines whether or not a predetermined time period has passed from the last auto save process a process of extracting a function of which frequency of use in one month is 0 that is a function not used and automatically saving the function . The predetermined time period may be set for example to 24 hours. If it is determined that the predetermined time period has passed from the last auto save process YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU reads the function use table and the function management table . At S CPU extracts a function or functions having 0 stored in the flag and not used for one month or more from the last use. Here CPU extracts any function having 0 stored in the flag for which the date and time of use of the past one month is not stored in .

At S CPU determines whether or not any function is extracted. If any function has been extracted YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU displays an image allowing the user to confirm movement of the extracted function as the saved function on display panel .

At S CPU determines whether or not confirmation input is done by the user. Here on the confirmation image an approval button and a rejection button for the saving of function are displayed. In this image if the user presses a button approving saving of the function CPU determines that the saving is confirmed. If it is determined that the saving is confirmed by the user YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU stores 1 in the flag of corresponding function in the function management table . The process steps S and S are executed on all functions extracted by the process of S.

Referring to the control structure of a subroutine program realizing the auto restore process at S of will be described. At S CPU determines whether or not a saved function is designated by a user as a function to be used. If it is determined that the user has designated a saved function YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU reads auto restore conditions. The auto restore conditions are set by a system administrator and stored in hard disk or RAM . Here assume that as auto restore conditions one user designated a saved function 10 times or unspecified users designated a saved function 5 times are set. According to the setting a function designated by different users is restored with smaller number of repeated designations than a function used repeatedly by one user. Specifically a function designated by different users is restored with priority than a function repeatedly used by the same user. When restore conditions for a saved function are satisfied the function is restored to the original function selection menu. It is also possible to set the number of designations made by a specific user as the auto restore conditions. If the same number of designations is set for the same user and for unspecified users it is simply the setting of number and not the setting of a user or users.

At S CPU determines whether or not a function designated by the user from the saved functions satisfies the auto restore conditions. The determination may be made based on the use history designated after the date and time of saving stored in the function use table . More specifically as the first restore condition if the designation of the function by the same user is the 10th designation after the date and time of saving it is determined that the auto restore conditions are satisfied. If the first restore condition is not satisfied the second restore condition is considered. Namely if the designation of the function by different users is the 5th designation from the date and time of saving it is determined that the auto restore conditions are satisfied. If it is determined that either of the auto restore conditions is satisfied YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU displays an image allowing the user to confirm restore of the function that satisfies the auto restore conditions to the original function selection menu on display panel .

At S CPU determines whether or not the user confirmed the restore of the function to the original function selection menu. Here on the confirmation dialog buttons allowing the user to approve or reject the restore of function are displayed. If the user presses the button for approving the restore of function in this dialog CPU determines that restore confirmation is input. If it is determined that confirmation for the restore of the saved function is input by the user YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

Referring to at S CPU determines whether or not a request for resetting the saved states of all functions to the initial state is detected. At this time if a saved function reset button is pressed CPU determines that a request for resetting all functions to the initial state is detected. If the determination is positive YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU displays an image allowing the user to confirm resetting of saved state of all functions to the initial state to have no function saved on display panel .

At S CPU determines whether or not the user confirmed returning of all functions to the initial state. Here on the confirmation dialog buttons allowing the user to approve or reject the resetting are displayed. In this dialog if the button for approving a reset is pressed by the user CPU determines that the reset is confirmed. If the determination is positive YES at S the process proceeds to S. Otherwise NO at S the process ends.

At S CPU sets the flag to 0 for all functions all functions provided by image forming apparatus in the function management table .

An operation of image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment based on the configuration and flowcharts above will be described with reference to .

Using the system setting image the administrator inputs information related to saving of a function from a commonly used menu of the function selection menu to the saved menu of the saved function image and to restore of a saved function to the original commonly used menu.

Referring to in the setting image the system setting items include saving conditions for saving a function for which a prescribed time period has passed from the date and time of latest use and restore conditions for automatically restoring a saved function to the original function selection menu image. Here that the saved function is designated 10 times by the same user is set as the rescore condition A and that the saved function is designated 5 times by a plurality of users is set as restore condition B . Such saving conditions and restore conditions restore conditions A and B are stored in hard disk or in RAM .

Assume that a user wants to have an image scanned color image adjusted and to have the image data printed on a sheet of recording paper color adjusted copy . On display panel of image forming apparatus the log in dialog shown in is displayed. The user inputs appropriate user ID and a password to the log in name user ID field and the password field displayed on the log in dialog. If the input items have been registered in the authentication source it is determined that an authorized user has logged in to image forming apparatus YES at S and the user ID of the user is stored S . The user ID is kept displayed on display panel while the user is logged in. At the uppermost portion of initial dialog a copy tag button for selecting the copy mode a fax image transmission tag button for selecting the facsimile mode and a document filing tag button for selecting the scan mode are displayed.

The logged in user presses the copy tag button among the three tag buttons displayed at the uppermost portion of display panel to have the image data copied YES at S .

CPU reads the function management table . At the same time CPU displays a main menu image function selection image for the mode selected by the logged in user on display panel S . Here the main menu image in the copy mode shown in is displayed. As shown in as software buttons corresponding to functions belonging to the middle classification as a lower layer of large classification copy mode special function selection button duplex copy selection button finishing selection button and filing selection button are displayed.

When the user requests selection of a function for example if the user presses any of special function selection button duplex copy selection button finishing selection button and filing selection button YES at S based on the read function management table a function selection image allowing selection of a function small classification from the function middle classification selected by the user is displayed S . Examples of images displayed on display panel at this time are as shown in .

If a large number of functions is to be displayed the list of functions is displayed on a plurality of pages both on the images of . Arrows shown at the right end of a frame indicated as list of special functions on are the buttons for moving to other pages.

In the image shown in a list of functions not saved of the displayed middle classification commonly used menu is displayed. In the image shown in a list of saved functions saved menu is displayed. Specifically functions not saved and functions saved are displayed distinguished from each other on separate images.

Following the menu hierarchy in accordance with a common method of operation one must go through the commonly used menu shown in before arriving at the saved menu shown in . Therefore when the user starts from the top menu the commonly used menu appears preceding the saved menu. Specifically transition of menus is controlled such that the commonly used menu appears with higher priority than the saved menu. In the example shown in if at least one function is saved among the special functions in the copy mode the image of is displayed on display panel when the copy tag button of is pressed and the image of is displayed on display panel when the to saved functions button of is pressed. Specifically showing the list of not saved functions is displayed with higher priority than showing the saved functions.

From the comparison of with it can be seen that color adjustment function and bulk document function displayed in are not displayed in . Since display of these two functions is removed book replication function and tab copy function that are not displayed on to be displayed on the next page of are newly displayed on . Further in 3 is displayed as the number of saved functions and values corresponding to latest saving process color adjustment and 2009 07 31 10 00 22 are displayed as the latest saved function and the data and time of latest saving. By the display as such it is possible to efficiently search for a saved function. Since there are saved functions to saved functions button which is not displayed in is displayed in .

In the image shown in as the special functions saved color adjustment function bulk document function and card scan function are displayed. In a caption list of saved functions indicating that the image of is a list of saved functions is displayed and in place of to saved functions button shown in a to special functions button for making an image transition to the image of list of special functions is displayed. In the image of also latest saved function number of saved functions and latest date and time of saving are shown as in .

For comparison with an exemplary image displayed on display panel when color adjustment button shown in is pressed is shown in . Specifically shows an image displayed when the color adjustment function is designated in the small classification menu. The middle classification as a lower layer of large classification copy mode includes the special function. The small classification as a lower layer of the special function includes the color adjustment function. As the minute classification menu belonging to a still lower layer of the color adjustment function RGB adjustment function color balance function and background erasure function are displayed as shown in . shows an image displayed when the color balance adjustment button which corresponds to a not saved function shown in is pressed. Therefore a caption list of special functions is displayed as shown in not the caption list of saved functions .

From the comparison between it can be seen that RGB adjustment function color balance function and background erasure function are similarly displayed as minute classification menu of the lower layer of color adjustment function small classification menu . Specifically if the color adjustment function small classification menu is saved RGB adjustment function color balance function and background erasure function as the minute classification menu of the lower layer are also saved together and displayed as a submenu of the lower layer. This is because CPU processes the function to be saved together with the functions of its lower layer based on the data stored as submenu saved together in the function management table of . By such processing the trouble of saving a function of upper layer small classification menu only and leaving functions of lower layer minute classification menu in the original function selection menu can be avoided. Therefore even when the color adjustment function is saved to saved functions once the color adjustment function is selected from the saved functions RGB adjustment color balance and background erasure as the lower functions saved are displayed in the hierarchical manner as in the original function selection menu. Therefore it is possible for the user to easily select the minute classification menu.

It may be possible not to provide the field of submenu saved together shown in and instead to store the hierarchy of functions as in the function use table and when a function of a specific layer is to be saved functions of the layers lower than the specific layer are saved together the same applies to the restore .

Assume that the logged in user designates the color adjustment function of the list of saved functions shown in as a desired function. At this time when the user pressed the color adjustment button displayed on display panel color adjustment is set to the designated state indicated by double frames as shown in and as shown in a submenu selection image for the color adjustment function is displayed on display panel . The user may designate any of the RGB adjustment color balance and background erasure functions displayed as the minute classification menu YES at S . In the following it is assumed that this designation of the color adjustment function saved as the saved function is the fifth designation made by different users.

If the logged in user designates the color adjustment function of the original function selection menu list of special functions shown in he she pressed the color adjustment button displayed on display panel . Then color adjustment is set to the designated state indicated by double frames as shown in . Further as shown in a submenu selection image for the color adjustment function is displayed on display panel . The user may designate any of the RGB adjustment color balance and background erasure functions displayed as the minute classification menu YES at S .

Then color adjustment designated by the logged in user is written as a used function in the function use table together with the date and time of use and the used user ID S . Here it follows that the use history of color adjustment function contains records of designation by five different users after the color adjustment function was saved after the date and time of saving . By way of example the use history of color adjustment having the function ID of C0102 is as follows.

A further preceding date and time of use is more than one month older than the date and time when the color adjustment function was saved assumed to be Jul. 31 2009 here. For example the preceding date may be Jun. 30 2009.

In such a situation the function that has been saved in the example above the color adjustment function is designated as the function to be used by the user YES at S and the auto restore conditions are satisfied YES at S . Therefore the function restore confirmation image shown in is displayed on display panel S . As shown in the function to be restored color adjustment is displayed together with the message THE FUNCTION BELOW DESIGNATED TO BE USED IN THE PRESENT JOB SATISFIES RESTORE CONDITIONS 5 DESIGNATIONS BY DIFFERENT USERS . DO YOU WANT TO RESTORE THE FUNCTION AS FREQUENTLY USED FUNCTION Further YES RESTORE button and NO NOT RESTORE KEEP SAVED button are displayed. If the logged in user presses YES RESTORE button YES at S 0 is stored in the flag of color adjustment in the function management table . Thus the color adjustment function comes to be displayed not in the list of saved functions shown in but in the list of special functions shown in .

Thereafter the color adjustment process is done and the desired image data is formed on a sheet of recording paper S .

It is also possible that when a saved function is designated by a user as a function to be used YES at S other auto restore conditions are satisfied YES at S . In that case the function restore confirmation image shown in is displayed on display panel S . As shown in the function to be restored color adjustment is displayed together with the message THE FUNCTION BELOW DESIGNATED TO BE USED IN THE PRESENT JOB SATISFIES RESTORE CONDITIONS 10 DESIGNATIONS BY THE SAME USER . DO YOU WANT TO RESTORE THE FUNCTION AS FREQUENTLY USED FUNCTION Further YES RESTORE button and NO NOT RESTORE KEEP SAVED button are displayed. If the logged in user presses YES RESTORE button YES at S 0 is stored in the flag of color adjustment in the function management table . Thus the color adjustment function comes to be displayed not in the list of saved functions shown in but in the list of special functions shown in .

When 24 hours passed from the last function auto save operation YES at S the function use table and the function management table are read S . Any function having the flag 0 in the function management table of and for which date and time of use in the last one month are not stored in the function use table of is extracted S . If such a function is not found the process ends. Here it is assumed that the color adjustment function is extracted.

Since there is an extracted function YES at S the function saving confirmation image shown in is displayed on display panel S . As shown in the function to be saved color adjustment is displayed together with a message DO YOU WANT TO REMOVE THE FOLLOWING UNUSED FUNCTION AFTER REMOVAL ONLY THE FREQUENTLY USED FUNCTIONS WILL BE DISPLAYED. Further YES SAVE button and NO NOT SAVE button are displayed. If the logged in user presses YES SAVE button YES at S 1 is stored in the flag of color adjustment in the function management table S . Thus the color adjustment function comes to be displayed not in the list of special functions shown in but in the list of saved functions shown in .

A saved function reset button is displayed for example with the system setting image shown in . The system setting image can be operated only by the administrator. The process of saved function reset sets all the functions back to the initial state and no function is left saved. Thus it involves a significant change in the system. Therefore it is preferred that the saved function reset button is provided on the system setting image that can be operated only by the administrator. If the administrator pressed the saved function reset button YES at S the saved function reset confirmation button shown in is displayed on display panel S . As shown in a message DO YOU WANT TO RESET ALL FUNCTIONS INITIAL STATE IS RESUMED NO FUNCTION SAVED is displayed together with YES RESET button and NO NOT RESET button. If the administrator presses YES RESET button 0 is stored in the flags of all functions in the function management table S . As a result all functions of image forming apparatus come to be displayed in the list of special functions shown in . In the present embodiment the display of to saved functions button in disappears and therefore it becomes impossible to display the image of the list of saved functions on display panel . Even if the list of saved functions shown in could be displayed no function is displayed.

As described above in the image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment 1 the user presses a button corresponding to a desired function from among a plurality of function selection buttons displayed to designate a desired function 2 in the image forming apparatus even the function or functions displayed on the commonly used function selection menu are automatically saved if frequency of use is low 3 if the function saved by the auto save function is designated by a user as a desired function the image forming apparatus restores the function to the original function selection menu image and 4 if the user requests resetting of all functions the image forming apparatus restores functions provided by the image forming apparatus to the original function selection menu. In this manner in the image forming apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment the manner of display of function selection menu image is changed based on the use history. As a result when a desired function is to be selected from a plurality of function selection buttons it is possible to easily select the desired function even various and many functions are provided by the image forming apparatus. Particularly selection menu image of lower layers are maintained to have the same hierarchical structure before and after the saving. Therefore confusion by the user before and after the saving can be prevented.

In the embodiment described above the timing when auto save process shown in is executed is a predetermined time period after the last auto save process. The present invention however is not limited to such an embodiment. The timing may be when the image forming apparatus is powered on when a new log in by a user is detected when a user logs out when a prescribed number of functions have been executed or when log in of an administrator is detected.

The auto restore process shown in is not limited to the above described embodiment either. The timing of auto restore process may be those mentioned above power on new log in administrator log in .

When the image forming apparatus is exchanged when it is changed to a new type it may be desirable to maintain the saved functions in the new apparatus. In such a case the function IDs and the flags of function management table shown in are registered in the function management table of the new image forming apparatus. Alternatively the function management table may be copied to the new image forming apparatus. As a prerequisite the CPU of the new image forming apparatus must execute the flowchart the menu system menu hierarchy for selecting a function must be the same and the new image forming apparatus has all the functions of the old apparatus. If these conditions are satisfied functions of low frequency of use are displayed as saved functions even in the new image forming apparatus. Therefore even if the use history is not accumulated it is possible for the user of the image forming apparatus to easily designate a desired function.

In the embodiment described above the layers for selecting functions are maintained using classifications corresponding to hierarchical layers that is large classification middle classification small classification and minute classification for selecting a function. Any unit of classification may be used for saving provided that the layer from which the function is selected is the same in the non saved function selection menu and the saved function selection menu.

In the embodiment described above saved state is reset and all functions are collectively returned to the initial state. It is possible in list of saved functions shown in to display individual restore button together with a button for selecting a saved function. When a saved function is selected and the individual restore button is pressed the saved function can be restored one by one to the original function selection menu.

The embodiments as have been described here are mere examples and should not be interpreted as restrictive. The scope of the present invention is determined by each of the claims with appropriate consideration of the written description of the embodiments and embraces modifications within the meaning of and equivalent to the languages in the claims.

