---

title: Active head restraint utilizing solenoid activation and bar linkage transmission
abstract: An active head restraint for supporting the head of an occupant, includes a shell, and an actuator disposed within the shell, wherein the actuator further includes a spring-biased bar linkage system pivotally coupled to the shell, a radial ratcheting sector coupled to the linkage system, a pawl selectively engaging the sector, and a solenoid drivenly coupled to the pawl, and configured, when activated, to cause the pawl to disengage the sector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08408645&OS=08408645&RS=08408645
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 08408645
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100602
---
This patent application claims priority to and benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 186 891 entitled ACTIVE HEADREST UTILIZING SOLENOID ACTIVATION AND BAR LINKAGE TRANSMISSION filed on Jun. 14 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to adjustable head restraint assemblies and more particularly to an adjustable head restraint having a solenoid actuator and bar linkage deployment system.

Autonomously manipulable or active head restraints have been developed that change absolute positioning so as to selectively reduce the intermediate distance between the head restraint and the head of an occupant when desired. In an automotive setting for example manipulation may be autonomously effected when a crash event is detected or predicted or where on demand activation is provided according to operator preference. Conventional head restraints including those with partially moving or telescoping shells those presenting separate release and locking actuators and those that provide limited adjustability typically employ complex architecture. These head restraints present various concerns in the art including a crowded interior region and a large plurality of moving parts resulting in greater manufacturing repair and replacement costs.

This invention addresses these concerns and presents a novel head restraint that employs manually charged spring actuation a solenoid release and a bar linkage system to selectively manipulate e.g. adjust the positioning or compliance of the head restraint. As such the head restraint described herein is useful for autonomously providing increased protection to the occupant. Further the disclosed head restraint offers a lower profile and improved adjustability in comparison to conventional active head restraints. Finally the inventive head restraint presents unitary displacement and a more efficient actuator that combines releasing and locking functionality.

In general an active head restraint adapted for use with a seat and to selectively support the head of an occupant is presented. The head restraint includes an exterior shell defining an interior space and outer surface configured to engage the head of the occupant. An actuator is disposed within the space and operable to adjust the distance between the surface and head. The actuator includes a bar linkage system presenting at least one selectively deployable swing arm pivotally coupled to the seat and shell such that pivoting the arm causes the shell to translate relative to the seat. The actuator further includes a solenoid operable to enable the arm to pivot when exposed to an electric current. Finally the head restraint and more particularly the actuator is communicatively coupled to a power source operable to generate the current.

As such a second aspect of the invention presents a method of autonomously translating a head restraint between stowed and deployed positions. The method generally includes the steps of detecting a condition or event activating a solenoid releasing stored energy as a result of activating the solenoid causing a bar linkage system to swing from a first configuration as a result of releasing the energy and causing the head restraint to translate from the stowed and to the deployed position as a result of causing the system to swing.

The above described and other features are exemplified by the following figures and detailed description.

Disclosed herein is an active head restraint or headrest adapted to selectively support the head of an occupant . The active head restraint disclosed herein can be employed in front or rear seats child seats and the like and in association with various applications such as vehicular and aviation transportation etc. The head restraint includes a solenoid actuator and bar linkage system that cooperate to manipulate e.g. translate reposition etc. at least a portion of the head restraint from a normal or stowed position to a deployed position wherein the spacing between the head restraint and head is reduced. As further described herein the preferred head restraint is configured to shift autonomously from the stowed and to the deployed position upon detection of an event or condition and or on demand.

As shown in the head restraint includes a shell preferably formed of a front contact portion and a back portion which interconnect e.g. through snaps and cooperate to form an interior space . For example a one piece outer folding clamshell may be used wherein the front portion is the portion of the head restraint proximate the head . The preferred shell defines a cutout that provides access to the interior space so that the actuator may be manually accessed without removing the shell . As shown in it is appreciated that the shell advantageously moves in unison as an integrated body. In lieu of displacing the head restraint it is appreciated that the system and actuator may be alternatively configured to bear against so as to provide additional resistance or energy absorption capability to an otherwise stationary front surface of the head restraint . That is to say the system and actuator may also be used to adjust the stiffness or geometric shape of the head restraint .

The head restraint is supported by at least one structural support post slidably disposed within the seatback and fixedly secured relative thereto via locking means not shown . To enable movement relative to the posts the shell defines a lower opening through which each post enters the space and is able to translate. More preferably the shell defines slotted openings having a width congruent to the post diameter so as to effect linear translation. The preferred head restraint further includes a padding material exterior to and forming superjacent layers with the shell and an outer covering of soft durable material encasing the padding material to define the overall shape of the head restraint . The preferred padding and covering are removable so as to enable access to the actuator through the cutout .

The shell may be in pivotal communication with the structural support post or fixedly secured thereto. In the illustrated embodiment for example rod straps may securely interconnect the head restraint and posts or be configured to enable the head restraint to be manually rotated to the extent allowed by the lower slot openings so as to provide further adjustability through tilting.

The structural support posts can take many forms and are not intended to be limited to that shown. For example it is appreciated that a wishbone or goal type post structure can be used. Moreover more or less than two posts can be employed. Finally the fixed structure of the preferred head restraint further includes a main carrier plate that is secured to the posts and provides a flat planar surface which serves as a base for the actuator and bar linkage system .

The preferred bar linkage deployment system i.e. bar linkage comprises at least one swing arm and more preferably a plurality of laterally paired swing arms . As shown in the swing arms are pivotally coupled to the shell and fixed structure e.g. posts carrier plate etc. preferably at or near their distal ends for example through dowel pins not shown . The arms are inter linked to effect congruent motion. More preferably a parallel four bar linkage system with equivalent arm lengths and orientations may be employed consisting of cross bars between lateral swing arms and vertical braces not shown between vertically spaced arms . In the illustrated embodiment the preferably rigid side walls of the shell supplants the vertical braces. For each set of lateral arms the pivot axis defined by the fixed structure and arms is fixed relative to the plate while the outer pivot axis connected to the shell is free to translate. As such when the swing arms are caused to pivot in a first direction the head restraint is driven outward e.g. away from the posts and upward towards a deployed position as shown by hidden line type in .

In the illustrated embodiment deployment and or stowage is provided by releasing energy stored within upper and or lower torsion springs . The spring s are preferably sized such that translation is performed in a controlled manner and likewise present a predetermined k value leg angle and leg length. The mandrels of the springs are coaxially aligned and preferably configured to present a minimal spacing with the cross bars . It is appreciated that the lower spring may also serve as the lower link arm. Alternatively it is also appreciated that other types of springs e.g. extension springs etc. or biasing elements may be used.

In the preferred embodiment the actuator includes a pawl locking plate and ratcheting sector pendulum or ratchet that cooperate to prevent back drive when released and engaged. The sector is pivotally coupled to the carrier plate and caused to swing within a window defined thereby when the arms which are fixedly coupled to the sector are caused to pivot by the released springs .

The pawl is coupled to and driven by the solenoid and configured to selectively engage the sector . More particularly as shown in the solenoid is of the type including a telescoping and outwardly biased plunger and the pawl presents a rectangular planar body that defines a U shaped joint within which the plunger extends. For example the U joint may be connected to the solenoid through a steel pin not shown allowing for slight misalignment of the plunger and pawl . The plunger engages the pawl at a predetermined angle that minimizes the actuation force necessary to disengage the pawl from the sector and slide the pawl within a guide track which aligns with the plunger .

The sector presents a plurality of teeth including a first locking tooth followed by plural ratcheting teeth. The first tooth presents orthogonal surfaces that form superjacent and normally engaging surfaces with the pawl in both directions. As such when the first tooth is engaged the pawl and sector prevent relative rotation past each other which locks the head restraint for example in the stowed position. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the forward surface of the ratcheting teeth present a slope so as to engage the pawl at an angle. The resultant force vector produces a vertical component sufficient to drive the plunger downward thereby enabling the teeth and sector to continue to travel in the first direction. The ratcheting teeth present an orthogonal rearward surface such that once the pawl passes a particular tooth it is prevented from back driving past that tooth. Thus the pawl and sector slidingly slip past each other in one direction but inter lock in the other so as to support the head at incremental points along its translation. If unobstructed the head restraint will fully deploy .

As previously stated the actuator overcomes many of the disadvantages of conventional active head restraint actuators. For example a relatively smaller volume lower power requirement and increased distributed actuation capability are some of the solutions offered by the inventive actuator . The actuator includes a solenoid that is configured to cause the release of energy that results in the displacement of the swing arms . More particularly when an electric current is caused to flow within the coil not shown of the solenoid the magnetic flux generated thereby establishes poles within the plunger . The poles cause the plunger to translate inward pulling the pawl away from the sector . Thus it is appreciated that a power source is communicatively coupled to the actuator e.g. through a wire harness fed through the head restraint and plate and operable to generate the electric charge that activates the solenoid . In an automotive application for example the source may be the vehicle charging system or a capacitor operable to effect a sufficient discharge of energy when desired.

In a preferred embodiment the preferred actuator is autonomously triggered upon determining a condition wherein reducing the spacing between the head restraint and head and or changing the compliance of the head restraint is desired. For example the head restraint may be configured to respond to a dynamic load of the occupant generated by the inertial transfer during an automotive sudden stop event or to the determination of a pre crash or crash condition. As such a controller and sensor may be communicatively coupled to the actuator and source . The controller and sensor are cooperatively configured to actuate the head restraint .

In the preferred embodiment shown in a position sensor capacitance ultrasonic radar camera and the like may be provided on the vehicle e.g. near or within the seatback to determine the position of the head . Here the controller may be designed to deploy or withhold deployment of the head restraint based on the determined position of the head . For example the anthropometry properties of the occupant e.g. weight height size weight distribution and the like as well as seated geometry e.g. leaning back leaning forward head location with respect to the head restraint and the like can be input variables for deploying the head restraint at an appropriate time. Other exemplary sensors including pressure sensors displacement sensors velocity sensors accelerometers and the like which can be located in and about the vehicle seat and head restraint . Alternatively the sensor may present a manual input device wherein the controller is configured to receive input and activate the solenoid on demand.

While the disclosure has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Further description explanation and exemplary embodiments offered by the various appendices attached hereto are hereby incorporated by reference as exemplary but non limiting teachings of the present invention.

