---

title: Key assembly for an electronic device having one-piece keycaps and multi-touch preventing supports
abstract: According to one aspect, a keypad for an electronic device includes a plurality of switches and a plurality of keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of external contact portions defining a full row of the keypad. Each external contact portion corresponds to one of the switches and includes at least one of a text-entry character and a functional character. Each of the external contact portions is movable to actuate the corresponding switch. The keypad further includes a plurality of keycap supports. Each keycap support is disposed between adjacent external contact portions. After one of the external contact portions has been moved to actuate the corresponding switch, at least one of the keycap supports engages the keycap having the one of the external contact portions to inhibit the keycap from actuating at least one of the other switches.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08362371&OS=08362371&RS=08362371
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08362371
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100429
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 567 926 filed on Sep. 28 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 232 485 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to input devices and more particularly to key assemblies for handheld electronic devices and more particularly to a key assembly for handheld electronic devices having a multi character keycap.

Keypad and keyboard designs in handheld electronic devices often attempt to balance several design constraints which may include the ability to provide illuminated keys a visual separation between keys a tactile separation between keys tactile feedback to device users in response to a key press and while providing such features within a relatively thin device profile.

Modern keypad and keyboard designs often utilize dome switches rather than mechanical hard closing switches to provide a thinner device profile. Depending on the keypad or keyboard design which is used the use of dome switches may result in keys which are wobbly and unstable and more prone to damage.

Generally herein like reference numerals are used in the drawings to denote like elements and features.

According to some embodiments a key assembly for an electronic device comprises a plurality of switches and a plurality of keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of external contact portions defining a full row of the key assembly. Each external contact portion corresponds to one of the switches and includes at least one of a text entry character and a functional character. Each of the external contact portions is movable to actuate the corresponding switch. The key assembly further includes a plurality of keycap supports. Each keycap support is disposed between adjacent external contact portions. After one of the external contact portions has been moved to actuate the corresponding switch at least one of the keycap supports engages the keycap having the one of the external contact portions to inhibit the keycap from actuating at least one of the other switches.

In some embodiments each of the keycap supports has rounded edges proximate the plurality of keycaps.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises an actuator sheet disposed between the switches and the keycaps. The actuator sheet includes a plurality of actuators. Each actuator has a first side which is engaged by one of the external contact portions and each actuator has a second side which engages the switch corresponding to the one of the external contact portions. The keycap supports are disposed between the actuator sheet and the keycaps.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises a first keycap spacer that supports a first set of the plurality of keycap supports.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises a second keycap spacer that supports the first set of the plurality of keycap supports at a first side and a second set of the plurality of keycap supports at a second side.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises a third keycap spacer that supports the second set of the plurality of keycap supports.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycaps includes at least three keycaps each having ten external contact portions.

In some embodiments the at least three keycaps define a portion of one of a QWERTY type keypad layout a QWERTZ type keypad layout an AZERTY type keypad layout and a Dvorak type keypad layout.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycap supports includes twenty seven keycap supports and each keycap support is disposed between adjacent external contact portions of the keycaps.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycaps includes at least one keycap having five external contact portions.

According to some embodiments a key assembly for an electronic device comprises a base a plurality of switches supported by the base and a plurality of keycaps movably supported by the base. Each keycap has a plurality of external contact portions. Each external contact portion corresponds to one of the switches and includes at least one of a text entry character and a functional character. Each of the external contact portions is movable to actuate the corresponding switch. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of keycap spacers supported by the base and at least some of the keycap spacers are disposed between adjacent keycaps. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of keycap supports and each keycap support is disposed between adjacent external contact portions. Each keycap support is also supported by adjacent keycap spacers. After one of the external contact portions has been moved to actuate the corresponding switch at least one of the keycap supports engages the keycap having the one of the external contact portions to inhibit the keycap from actuating at least one of the other switches.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycap supports includes a first set of keycap supports a second set of keycap supports and a third set of keycap supports. The plurality of keycap spacers includes a first keycap spacer that supports the first set of keycap supports a second keycap spacer that supports the first set of keycap supports and the second set of keycap supports a third keycap spacer that supports the second set of keycap supports and the third set of keycap supports and a fourth keycap spacer that supports the third set of keycap supports.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycaps includes a first keycap disposed between the first keycap spacer and the second keycap spacer and engageable with first set of keycap supports a second keycap disposed between the second keycap spacer and the third keycap spacer and engageable with the second set of keycap supports and a third keycap disposed between the third keycap spacer and the fourth keycap spacer and engageable with the third set of keycap supports.

In some embodiments the first keycap the second keycap and the third keycap each include ten external contact portions to define a full row of the key assembly.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises an actuator sheet supported by the base and disposed between the switches and the keycaps. The actuator sheet includes a plurality of actuators. Each actuator has a first side which is engaged by one of the external contact portions and each actuator has a second side which engages the switch corresponding to the one of the external contact portions. The keycap supports are disposed between the actuator sheet and the keycaps.

In some embodiments the key assembly further comprises an actuator sheet support supported by the base. The actuator sheet support includes a plurality of support legs and each support leg is disposed between the base and the actuator sheet opposite one of the keycap supports.

According to some embodiments a key assembly for an electronic device comprises a plurality of switches and a plurality of keycaps. Each keycap has a plurality of external contact portions and each external contact portion corresponds to one of the switches and includes at least one of a text entry character and a functional character. Each of the external contact portions is movable to actuate the corresponding switch. The key assembly further comprises an actuator sheet disposed between the switches and the keycaps. The actuator sheet includes a plurality of actuators. Each actuator corresponds to one of the external contact portions and has a first side which is engaged by the one of the external contact portions and a second side which engages the switch corresponding to the one of the external contact portions. The key assembly further comprises a plurality of keycap supports. Each keycap support is disposed between adjacent external contact portions and between the actuator sheet and the keycaps. After the one of the external contact portions has been moved to actuate the corresponding switch via the corresponding actuator at least one of the keycap supports engages the keycap having the one of the external contact portions to inhibit the keycap from actuating at least one of the other switches.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycaps includes at least three keycaps each having ten external contact portions.

In some embodiments the plurality of keycaps includes at least one keycap having five external contact portions.

The teachings of the present disclosure relate generally to portable electronic devices for example mobile communication devices such as pagers cellular phones global positioning system GPS navigation devices and other satellite navigation devices smart phones wireless organizers wireless personal digital assistants PDA and tablet computers. The portable electronic devices could be a device without wireless communication capabilities such as a PDA electronic gaming device digital photograph album or picture frame digital camera or digital video recorder such as a camcorder. The portable electronic device may comprise a touch screen display as well as or instead of a keypad. These examples are intended to be non limiting. It is also possible that the teachings of the present disclosure could be applied to electronic devices other than handheld electronic devices such as notebook computers.

Reference is first made to which illustrate a key assembly or keypad for use in an electronic device in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. In example features have been illustrated by reference numerals. In some figures where there are multiple instances of the same feature in order to enhance the readability of the figures only a subset of these features have been numbered. For example in there are a plurality of actuators . In order to increase the readability of this drawing only two such actuators have been labeled.

The key assembly comprises a plurality of single piece keycaps formed of an at least somewhat flexible material such as a polymer. Each keycap is associated with and may identify a substantial portion of a row of keyboard characters. For example the keyboard may have a QWERTY type layout QWERTZ type layout AZERTY type layout or Dvorak type layout.

By way of example in some embodiments in which the keyboard is a QWERTY keyboard a first keycap may be associated with and identify a substantial portion of the row of keyboard characters which includes the text characters Q W E R T Y U I O and P . Similarly a second keycap may be associated with and identify a substantial portion of the row of keyboard characters which includes the characters A S D F G H J K and L . The second keycap may also include a functional character such as a character associated with the delete function or another function. A third keycap may be associated with and identify a substantial portion of the row of keyboard characters which includes the characters Z X C V B N and M . The third keycap may also include one or more functional characters such as characters associated with the aft and enter functions respectively.

The text characters associated with the keycaps include letters that may be used to write in one or more given languages. For example the characters may include letters of the English alphabet the French alphabet and so on. In some embodiments the characters may be an alphanumeric character set that includes letters and numbers.

The characters associated with the keycaps may be identified on the keycaps in a number of ways. For example in some embodiments the characters are identified by a visual identifier such as in mold labeling IML of the keycap . In other embodiments the characters are identified by in mold decoration IMD of the keycap . It will however be appreciated that other suitable labeling techniques may also be used to identify the characters associated with the keycap .

Each keycap has a plurality of external contact portions or character representing portions aligned in a single row along the keycap. Each character representing portion is associated with and identifies at least one text entry or functional character. In some embodiments each character representing portion is associated with a single character. In other embodiments a single character representing portion may be associated with multiple characters. For example in some embodiments a character representing portion may be associated with two text entry characters. For example a first character representing portion may be associated with the Q and W characters a second character representing portion associated with the E and R characters and so on. In such embodiments the handheld electronic device with which the key assembly is used may have a predictive text engine. In response to the depression of a character representing portion the predictive text engine may be used to predict a desired character from the plurality of characters associated with that character representing portion .

In at least some embodiments the keycaps may also include one or more function external contact portions or function key representing portions . These portions may be associated with a specific function of the electronic device in which the key assembly operates. For example the function key representing portions may include a graphic or other identifier which is used to identify to a user the specific function assigned to that function key representing portion . By way of example and not limitation one of the function key representing portions may be associated with an additional character function not shown . When the additional character function is activated the device displays a plurality of non standard characters on a display screen. The non standard characters are characters which may not have an associated character representing portion. For example the non standard characters may include the or characters. When the non standard characters are displayed on the display screen a user may select one of the non standard users by interacting with an input mechanism associated with the device.

Since each keycap contains a plurality of character representing portions the keycaps may be more stable than traditional keycaps in which each keycap only includes a single character representing portion . That is by providing multiple character representing portions on a single keycap the keycap may be less wobbly than traditional keycaps.

The keycaps in at least some embodiments have an externally facing side that includes tactile features which are shown for example in . More specifically the tactile features may be included on the surface of the character representing portions . The tactile features may for example include an externally protruding portion or an indentation for assisting the user in navigating the keypad. The tactile features may provide tactile feedback to a user to assist that user in locating a desired character representing portion . That is the tactile features may be used to assist a user in determining the boundaries of a character representing portion .

Each keycap includes deforming portions and which separate adjacent character representing portions . In the shown embodiment in each character representing portion is separated by respective mechanically deforming portions . The deforming portions act as a hinge to permit the keycap to bend at the deforming portions .

In some embodiments the deforming portions which may be seen in and of the keycap have a cross section that is thinner than a cross section of the character representing portions of the keycap . In such embodiments the mechanically deforming portions may be grooves in the keycap as shown for example in . In some embodiments the grooves may be formed on one side of the keycap as shown for example in . In other embodiments the grooves may be formed on opposed sides of the keycap . In some embodiments the mechanically deforming portions have a cross section that is approximately 0.25 mm in thickness.

In some embodiments the grooves may be provided on the externally facing side of the keycap to provide the dual functions of mechanical deformation to allow for key presses of the respective character representing portions of the keycap and visual or tactile separation between character representing portions of the keycap for key identification by device users.

In another embodiment the grooves are provided on an internally facing side of the keycap to provide mechanical deformation to allow for key presses of the respective character representing portions of the keycap .

In some embodiments where the grooves are provided on the internally facing side the externally facing side does not have grooves to define the limits of the character representing portions of the keycap . In such embodiments the externally facing side of the deforming portion of the keycap may have a surface which is level and or continuous with the surface of the externally facing side of the character representing portion which is adjacent to that deforming portion . That is the externally facing side may have no grooves at the deforming portion . In such embodiments the externally facing side may have no sharp transitions in gradient. Avoiding such sharp gradient transitions on the externally facing side such as grooves may in some embodiments be used to inhibit the accumulation of debris in the key assembly .

In embodiments where the externally facing side does not have grooves visual and tactile indications of the individual character representing portions of the keycap may be provided by other means for example through the use of other tactile features on the character representing portions of the keycap as described above.

The character representing portions and the deforming portions of the keycap are formed of a common material. In some embodiments the character representing portions and the deforming portions are formed of polycarbonate PC or a co polymer of PC and polyethylene terephthalate PET for example Xylex 8210 or Xylex 8303 although it is recognized that alternate materials with similar properties may be appropriate.

The key assembly also includes a plurality of dome switches . Each character representing portion of the keycap is associated with a separate one of the dome switches . The dome switches may be included on a dome sheet which mechanically connects the dome switches together to provide stability to the dome switches and to hold the dome switches in place within the key assembly .

In some embodiments each dome switch comprises a polyethylene terephthalate PET film which overlays a collapsible metal dome having a nickel plating over a gold plating on a flexible printed circuit board PCB . As will be explained in greater detail below when a character representing portion is pressed the dome of the respective dome switch collapses thereby connecting conductive platings on an adjacent printed circuit board PCB and completing a connection there between. The PCB includes an electrical connector which may be used to connect the PCB to a controller of a host electronic device. In the embodiment shown the electrical connector is a ribbon connector. The controller of the host electronic device receives an input signal in response to the connection of the conductive platings caused by actuation of the dome switch . The controller recognizes a corresponding input in response to the received input signal. In other embodiments other dome switch constructions could be used.

The key assembly further comprises a plurality of actuators for activating the dome switches . Each actuator actuates a different one of the dome switches . Further each actuator is associated with a different one of the character representing portions or the function key representing portions . In the embodiment shown each character representing portion is associated with a single actuator . The actuator has a first side which is illustrated in which engages the associated character representing portion or function key representing portion . In some embodiments the actuator directly engages its associated character representing portion or function key representing portion for example through direct contact. In other embodiments the key assembly may include a further layer not shown between the actuator and the character representing portions and the character representing portion or function key representing portion engages the actuator through this further layer. The actuator engages the associated character representing portion or function key representing portion in the sense that a force applied to the externally facing side of the character representing portion or function key representing portion is transferred in whole or in part to the actuator .

The first side of the actuator is proportionally shaped to the interior side of the associated character representing portion or function key representing portion in order to provide proper support. The keycap of the key assembly may in some embodiments be connected to the first side of the actuators using an adhesive although it is appreciated that alternative materials with similar properties may be suitable.

The actuator has a second side which is illustrated in which opposes the first side which engages the dome switch associated with that actuator . The second side may in some embodiments have a circular profile for contacting a circular dome switch . In some embodiments the actuator directly engages its associated dome switch for example through direct contact. In other embodiments the key assembly may include a further layer not shown between the actuator and the dome switch where the dome switch is engaged by the actuator through this further layer. The actuator engages the associated character representing portion or function key representing portion in the sense that a force applied to the externally facing side of the character representing portion or function key representing portion is transferred in whole or in part to the actuator which is then transferred in whole or in part to the dome switch .

The actuators are provided on an actuator sheet which includes a connecting web between the actuators which connects the actuators together to provide stability and hold the actuators in place within the key assembly . In the shown embodiment the actuator sheet connects all of the actuators . It will be appreciated however that in other embodiments the actuators or a subset thereof may be connected in other ways. For example in some embodiments a plurality of actuator sheets may be used. In such embodiments the actuator sheets may connect the actuators for example in a row wise or column wise manner. In embodiments in which row wise connections are used each actuator sheet may connect only the actuators in a given row of the key assembly . That is the actuators which are associated with the character representing portions on a first keycap may be connected together but actuators which are associated with the character representing portions on a second keycap are provided in a separate actuator sheet. Similarly where column wise connections are used each actuator sheet may connect the actuators in a given column of the key assembly .

In some embodiments the actuators and the actuator sheet may be formed of silicone rubber in order to permit the actuators to compress. As will be explained in greater detail below the compressing of the actuators may in some embodiments be useful for applying a pre loaded force to the dome switches to reduce the force required to depress the dome switches. However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments other materials may be used.

In some embodiments the actuator sheet or a portion thereof is comprised of a clear material which permits the transmission of light. The actuator sheet may thus act as a light guide permitting light generated on one side of the actuators to travel to another side of the actuators . For example in some embodiments the PCB includes one or more light generating elements such as a light emitting diode LED . The LEDs are located at positions which direct light through holes defined by the dome sheet and the light is then passed by the actuator sheet which is in at least some embodiments co molded with an actuator sheet support which may also be used to pass light and which is described in further detail below to the keycaps thus allowing the keycaps to be illuminated.

In some embodiments at least some of the character representing portions have a transparent portion or window for transmitting light from the light generating elements there through. In some embodiments each of the character representing portions have a transparent portion for transmitting light there through to provide backlighting of the key portions. In at least some embodiments the keycap is formed of a rigid polycarbonate. In some embodiments the keycap is formed of a transparent material such as a light diffusing polycarbonate which is painted with a desired color or colors and laser etched to remove a portion of the paint and expose the transparent material for transmitting light there through. In some embodiments the character representing portions are painted a first color which will provide the backlight color and then painted a second color which for example matches a color of the housing of the host electronic device . The second color is then laser etched in predefined shapes to expose the first color. The predefined shape may be used to provide a visual representation which informs the device user of a function of the respective character representing portions . The predefined shape is typically different for each character representing portion . The first color may vary between character representing portions . When assembled into the host electronic device activation of the LEDs on the PCB backlights the respective character representing portions so as to illuminate the laser etched shape in the respective background color e.g. the first color .

In some embodiments the key assembly includes an actuator sheet support which is disposed between the actuator sheet and the dome sheet and which supports the actuators .

The support defines a plurality of openings which receive the actuators and which permit the actuators to contact the dome switches of the dome sheet . The support is in contact with the connecting web of the actuator sheet . Through its contact with the connecting web of the actuator sheet the support supports the actuator sheet in spaced relation above the dome sheet .

In some embodiments the support may serve the dual purpose of supporting the actuator sheet and acting as a further light guide. The support may be constructed of a rigid plastic which may be formed for example by plastic injection. That is the support may be formed of a rigid polycarbonate using injection molding which is polycarbonate L1225L in some embodiments . Where the support also acts as a light guide the support is constructed of a material which is transparent or in some embodiments translucent. For example the support may be constructed of a clear plastic.

Due to the use of keycaps which have more than one character representing portion the keycaps in the key assembly may be larger than standard keycaps. Due to the increased size of the keycaps the keycaps may in some embodiments be more difficult to depress than standard keycaps. In order to permit easier depression of the keycaps in an unactivated or rest state in which no external forces are placed on the keycap for example from a user the actuators are held in a position in which they pre load the dome switches . That is in a rest state where the keycap is not depressed beyond its natural resting position at least some of the actuators preload at least some of the dome switches by exerting a force upon those dome switches . To accomplish this preloading the actuators are biased into a position in which they interfere with their associated dome switch and in which they exert a force upon that dome switch . The force is greater than 10 grams. In some embodiments the force is in the range of 20 to 60 grams. In some embodiments the force is approximately 40 grams. The amount of force used to preload the dome switches may vary based on the degree of rigidity of the dome switches . That is the preloading force may vary with the force required to depress a dome on a dome switch in order to close that dome switch .

To accomplish such preloading of the dome switches the support supports the actuator sheet and holds the actuators in a position in which the actuators exert a force upon their respective associated dome switches when the key assembly is in its rest position where no external forces are applied to the keycaps . In the rest state in which no external forces are applied to the keycap the support may 1 hold the actuators in a position in which the dome switches are partially depressed 2 hold the actuators in a position in which the actuators are forced upwardly away from the dome switches as a result of the preloaded force between the dome switch and the actuators or 3 hold the actuators in a position in which the actuators are compressed .

For example as shown in in some embodiments the support may hold the actuator in a position in which the dome switch is partially depressed in the rest state. In this position the force required to depress the dome switch need not be as large as in embodiments where there is no pre loading of the dome switch.

Similarly as shown in in some embodiments the support may hold the actuator in a position in which the actuator is forced upwardly away from the dome switches . In such embodiments the connecting web may deform to permit movement of the actuator .

Similarly in some embodiments illustrated in the support may hold the actuator in a position in which the actuator is partially compressed in the rest state. In such embodiments the compressed actuator preloads of the dome switch due to the natural tendency of the actuator to attempt to return to an uncompressed state. That is the compression energy of the actuator is applied to the actuator .

In various embodiments any combination of these various resulting positions may occur in the rest state. For example in some embodiments in the rest state the dome switch may be partially compressed and the actuator may also be partially compressed.

It will be appreciated that preloading the dome switches allows the dome switches to be engaged with less force from a user than would be required in systems which do not include preloading. It will also be appreciated that the preloading of the dome switches provides additional stability to the key assembly .

The specific position of the actuator in the rest state will vary depending on the material properties of the dome switches the actuators and the connecting web used to connect the actuators to the support. For example in some embodiments the actuator is constructed of a compressible material such as rubber. In such embodiments the actuator may be compressed when in the rest state as a result of the preloaded force between the dome switch and the actuators . In some embodiments the connecting web may be constructed of an elastic material such as rubber. In such embodiments when in the rest state the actuator may be forced upwardly away from the dome switches as a result of the preloaded force between the dome switch and the actuators . When this occurs the connecting web is extended beyond its natural resting position thereby creating elastic energy in the connecting web which assists in the preloading of the dome switches .

It will be appreciated that other mechanisms apart from those described herein may be used to support the actuators in a position in which they preload the dome switches .

In the shown embodiment in order to connect the support to the dome sheet the support has disposed around its perimeter a plurality of first connectors . These first connectors physically connect the support to the dome sheet .

The first connectors connect with mated connecting features on a back plate . More particularly a back plate or other support is disposed on the side of the dome sheet that opposes the side on which the support is located. The back plate may be but is not necessarily located in a layer of the key assembly which is adjacent to the dome sheet . For example in the embodiment shown the dome sheet is adjacent to the PCB . An adhesive layer is disposed between the PCB and the back plate . The adhesive layer connects the PCB to the back plate .

The back plate includes an edge which extends upwardly in the direction of the dome sheet . Thus the back plate acts as a housing for the dome sheet . The edge has disposed thereon the connecting features which mate with and connect to the first connectors of the support . The first connectors and its associated connecting features thus connect the support to the dome sheet .

Accordingly in the embodiment shown the support is connected to the dome sheet by compression fitting the dome sheet and the support . It will however be appreciated that other methods and connectors for connecting the support to the dome sheet may also be employed. For example in some embodiments the dome sheet may be connected to the support with an adhesive. Alternatively in some embodiments the support may be integrated with the dome sheet and formed as a single element.

The dome sheet and in some embodiments the actuator sheet are connected to the support by way of one or more second connectors . In the embodiment shown the second connectors are comprised of elongate bars which are disposed between adjacent keycaps . In the shown embodiment the second connectors act as separating members to space adjacent keycaps . Such spacers may serve a number of functions including for example spacing the keycaps in order to accommodate a user s fingers and inhibit the accidental depression of an adjacent keycap. The second connectors may also serve to act as a visual separator of adjacent keycaps . In such cases the second connectors may be a different color than the keycaps .

In the shown embodiment the second connectors have one or more protrusions thereon. The protrusions extend downwardly towards the dome sheet and may be received by corresponding holes defined by the actuator sheet and in some embodiments corresponding holes defined in a light shield layer the support the dome sheet the PCB the back plate and or a second back plate respectively. It will be appreciated that some of these layers may not be included in some embodiments.

The protrusion on the second connectors has an enlarged end which is larger than any of the holes . The enlarged end may be formed by a heat staking process. Once the key assembly is assembled the enlarged end holds the protrusion in the holes . That is the enlarged end inhibits the protrusion from escaping the holes .

In the shown embodiment the second connectors are each aligned with at least a portion of the connecting web of the support . The second connectors thus hold the actuator sheet against the support thus holding the actuators in a position in which a preload force is exerted on the dome switches .

In some embodiments the key assembly may further comprise a decorative spacer . The decorative spacer may be an elongate bar which resembles the second connectors . The decorative spacer is disposed adjacent to one or more keycaps . In the shown embodiment the decorative spacer is parallel to each of the second connectors . The decorative spacer differs from the second connectors only in that the decorative spacer does not include the protrusions . The spacer may be affixed to the key assembly by way of an adhesive. It will be appreciated that the spacer may be affixed to the key assembly in other ways.

The actuator sheet may be connected to the support using other connectors or methods than those described above. In some embodiments the actuator sheet is co molded to the support . This may be done for example by compressing or injecting a first material such as rubber which may be used for example for the actuator sheet to a second material such as plastic or metal which may be used for example for the support . In other embodiments the actuator sheet may be connected to the support using an adhesive.

In the embodiment illustrated the key assembly also includes a light shield . The light shield is an opaque layer which is disposed between the keycaps and the actuator sheet and serves to inhibit light from escaping in undesirable locations. That is the light shield focuses any light on the character representing portions and any possible function key representing portions of the keycap .

The shown embodiment also includes a second back plate disposed at a layer adjacent to the back plate . The second back plate has an edge which extends downwardly away from the dome sheet . The second back plate serves to house additional components . The additional components may for example be a stiffening support which is used to provide structural support to the key assembly . In some embodiments the back plate and the second back plate are metal layers. These metal layers are in some embodiments connected together for example by welding.

The key assembly typically includes a mounting subassembly not shown for mounting the key assembly to a host electronic device for example the handheld electronic device described below.

While portions of the key assembly are shown as separate elements some of these elements may be combined in other embodiments or formed together using co molding in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments the actuator sheet may be co molded with the support . It is also possible that some of the elements described as a single element may be implemented using multiple elements in other embodiments.

While the shown embodiment illustrated a key assembly in which the actuator sheet was connected to the support which was connected to the dome sheet in other embodiments the actuator sheet or the individual actuators may be connected directly to the dome sheet . For example the connecting web of the actuator sheet could be connected to the dome sheet .

Reference is now made to which illustrate an embodiment of the key assembly that includes additional support for the keycaps . As described in further detail below this additional support inhibits unintentional multi touches or unintentionally depressing one or more external contact portions when another external contact portion is intentionally depressed.

The key assembly includes a plurality of keycaps movably supported relative to a base . Each of the keycaps includes multiple external contact portions and each external contact portion includes one or more text entry and or functional characters.

In some embodiments each keycap defines at least a portion of a row of the key assembly e.g. three keycaps and include ten external contact portions and one keycap includes five external contact portions . Together the keycaps may provide a QWERTY type keypad layout a QWERTZ type keypad layout an AZERTY type keypad layout a Dvorak type keypad layout or the like.

As described above in some embodiments each keycap includes separate deforming portions that permit separate character representing portions to be depressed. In other embodiments each of the keycaps comprises an at least somewhat flexible material such as a polymer. In some embodiments the polymer may include polycarbonate PC or a co polymer of PC and polyethylene terephthalate PET for example Xylex 8210 or Xylex 8303.

Each keycap also includes a plurality of posts each post disposed opposite one of the external contact portions . Each post contacts an actuator supported on an actuator sheet .

As shown in the first side of each actuator is shaped to accommodate the post of the corresponding external contact portion in order to provide support for the post . The second side of the actuator engages a single switch corresponding to the external contact portion . In some embodiments the switches are dome switches supported on a dome sheet as described above. The actuator sheet may be supported by an actuator sheet support disposed above the dome sheet . The actuator sheet support includes a plurality of support legs each of which is disposed between adjacent actuators .

Like the device described in connection with each external contact portion may be depressed to displace the corresponding actuator and thereby actuate the corresponding switch . Such an action generally results in entering a character or performing a function associated with the external contact portion .

However without additional support as described below if a keycap is intentionally depressed proximate two external contact portions e.g. above one of the support legs a second switch may be unintentionally depressed. As a result a second character may be unintentionally entered or a second function may be unintentionally performed.

To inhibit such unintentional multi touches the key assembly includes a plurality of keycap supports disposed between adjacent external contact portions and between the keycaps and the actuator sheet . That is the keycap supports tend to inhibit the keycaps from being depressed when a force is applied proximate two external contact portions .

Furthermore when one of the external contact portions is intentionally depressed to actuate the corresponding switch the keycap supports engage the keycap to inhibit the other external contact portions from moving toward and thereby actuating their corresponding switches .

In some embodiments the keycap supports cause the keycaps to deform as illustrated by the deformation curve shown in when a single external contact portions is pressed.

Furthermore in some embodiments the keycap supports cause the keycaps to deform as illustrated by the deformation curve shown in when two or more external contact portions disposed on opposite sides of another contact portion are pressed simultaneously or concurrently i.e. pressing and holding a first external contact portion and then pressing a second external contact portion .

In some embodiments the key assembly includes a total of 27 keycap supports . A single keycap support is disposed between each set of adjacent external contact portions for each of the three keycaps and . That is a first set of keycap supports engage the first keycap a second set of keycap supports engage the second keycap and a third set of keycap supports engage the third keycap

Furthermore in some embodiments the key assembly may include additional keycap supports that engage the fourth keycap . Four keycap supports may be used to support the fourth keycap and as such the key assembly may include a total of 31 keycap supports . Further still in some embodiments the key assembly may include fewer keycap supports than shown in the figures. For example each of the three keycaps and may be replaced by two separate keycaps and the keycap support between each pair of separate keycaps may be omitted from the key assembly . As such the key assembly may include a total of 24 keycap supports .

In some embodiments each keycap support is disposed opposite a support leg to inhibit the keycap support from deflecting when engaged by a keycap . Furthermore in some embodiments the keycap supports are supported by the connectors or keycap spacers described above so that the supports are fixed relative to the base of the key assembly . That is a first key spacer supports the first set of keycap supports a second key spacer supports the first set of keycap supports on a first side and the second set of keycap supports on a second side a third key spacer supports the second set of keycap supports on a first side and the third set of keycap supports on a second side and a fourth key spacer supports the third set of keycap supports

The keycap supports are connected to the keycap spacers in one of various manners such as heat staking via an adhesive or in some embodiments the keycap spacers and the keycap supports are formed together using co molding or another appropriate process. In some embodiments the keycap supports are formed of a rigid plastic such as polycarbonate.

Regardless of the specific manner in which they are supported in some embodiments the keycap supports may have the same cross sectional shape. As shown most clearly in each keycap support has a generally trapezoidal cross sectional shape that tapers inwardly toward the keycaps .

Furthermore in some embodiments each keycap support has rounded edges proximate the keycaps . Such rounded edges may permit the keycaps to engage the keycap supports while causing less wear compared to an abrupt edge.

Further still in some embodiments the keycap supports are spaced apart from the lower surfaces of the keycaps when the keycaps are not depressed. Such a configuration may permit the keycaps to move a short distance before contacting the keycap supports and thereby provides desired amounts of tactile feedback. However the spacing between the keycap supports and the keycaps may be modified to provide different tactile feedback.

Other components features materials connection means and the like not described explicitly with reference to may be as described in connection with the key assembly shown in .

Reference is now made to which illustrates a handheld electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The handheld electronic device may be a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the handheld electronic device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smart phone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The handheld electronic device generally includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on or connected via a printed circuit board PCB which may be the PCB . The handheld electronic device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen a keypad constructed using a key assembly in accordance with the present disclosure such as the key assembly of possibly other input devices not shown flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. In other embodiments instead of the keypad the handheld electronic device may comprise a keyboard constructed using a key assembly in accordance with the present disclosure such as the key assembly of . The device may comprise a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input side connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the handheld electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which handheld electronic device is intended to operate.

The handheld electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The handheld electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

In some embodiments the handheld electronic device also includes a removable memory card typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the handheld electronic device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the handheld electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The handheld electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the handheld electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the handheld electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the handheld electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The serial data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The serial data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the handheld electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the handheld electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the handheld electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some embodiments the handheld electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their handheld electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the handheld electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The handheld electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the handheld electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the handheld electronic device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the handheld electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the handheld electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the handheld electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the handheld electronic device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the handheld electronic device .

The handheld electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and an optional voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the handheld electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the handheld electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the handheld electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the embodiments described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

