---

title: Social event recommendations
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing a plurality of event listings, accessing event information associated with the event listings, accessing social network information associated with a particular user, and ranking the event listings for the particular user based at least in part on the social network information and event information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700540&OS=08700540&RS=08700540
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 08700540
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101129
---
The present disclosure generally relates to online event management systems and recommendation systems.

Many websites allow users to conduct a variety of actions online such as view content write reviews order items purchase tickets etc. These websites often present the user with a plurality of actions to choose from and allow the user to select the type of action he would like to perform. Once the action is selected the website typically redirects the client system of the user to a webpage where the action can be completed. For example some websites allow users to organize events using an online event management system. An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow users to view event listings register for events and purchase tickets for events.

An online social networking system typically operates with one or more social networking servers providing interaction between users such that a user can specify other users of the social networking system as friends. A collection of users and the friend connections between users can form a social graph that can be traversed to find second third and more remote connections between users much like a graph of nodes connected by edges can be traversed.

Internet users may maintain one or more accounts with various service providers including for example online social networking systems and online event management systems. Online systems can typically be accessed using suitable browser clients e.g. Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer .

In particular embodiments a social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more social graphs. A social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example social graph details friend connections details user information user inputs and social network displays. A social networking system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . An event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details and event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . One or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from social networking system or event management system . A client system may access a social networking system or an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may access an event management system via a social networking system . A client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smart phone or a computing tablet.

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Connections may connect client system social networking system and event management system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

Social graphs are models of connections between users . A user of a social graph may be any suitable entity such as for example individuals users contacts friends players businesses groups associations concepts or other suitable entities. A social graph can have a node for each user and edges to represent relationships between users . A node in a social graph may represent any suitable user . An edge in a social graph may represent any suitable relationship between entities such as for example an association link connection friendship grouping pairing union or other suitable relationship. For purposes of illustration an edge in a social graph may be referred to as a friend connection but this term is not meant to be limiting and a friend connection may represent and suitable relationship. In particular embodiments a unique client identifier can be assigned to each user in the social graph.

The minimum number of edges or friend connections required to connect a first user to second user on a social graph is considered the degree of separation between the users. For example where the first user and the second user are directly connected one edge they are deemed to be separated by one degree of separation. The second user would be a so called first degree friend of the first user. Where the first user and second user are connected through one other user two edges they are deemed to be separated by two degrees of separation. The second user would now be a so called second degree friend of the first user. Where the first user and second user are connected through N edges or N 1 other users they are deemed to be separated by N degrees of separation. The second user would now be a so called Nth degree friend. As used herein the term friend means only first degree friends unless context suggests otherwise.

In particular embodiments each user of a social graph may have a social network within the social graph. A particular social network may be associated with a first user and may comprise the first user and set of second users of a social graph. A first user s social network may include all other users in the social graph within Ndegrees of the first user where Nis the maximum degree of separation allowed by the system managing the social graph such as for example social networking system or event management system . In some embodiments Nequals 1 such that a user s social network includes only first degree friends. In other embodiments Nis unlimited and a user s social network is coextensive with the social graph.

In particular embodiments one or more components of system may function as a social graph host. A social graph host may be a network addressable system that hosts and manages one or more social graphs wherein each social graph comprises a plurality of users and wherein each user is associated with one or more social networks. As an example and not by way of limitation a social graph may be managed by a social networking system e.g. Facebook Friendster Myspace . As another example and not by way of limitation a social graph may be hosted and managed by event management system . As yet another example and not by way of limitation social networking system may host and manage one or more first social graphs and event management system may host and manage one or more second social graphs.

In particular embodiments a user may have one or more first social networks on a first social graph host and one or more second social networks on a second social graph host. As an example and not by way of limitation the user may be a user of both event management system and social networking system and the user may have one or more social networks on each system. The user may have a social network on the event management system that is a subset superset or independent of the user s social network on social networking system . Similarly the user may have a social network on the social networking system that is a subset superset or independent of the user s social network on event management system .

In particular embodiments a first system may host and manage an internal social graph and may also access one or more second systems that host and manage one or more external social graphs. For purposes of illustration the first system will be referred to as the internal system and the one or more second system will be referred to as the external systems. A user may have an internal social graph on the internal system and an external social graph on the external system. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may host and manage an internal social graph and may access an external social graph hosted and managed by social networking system . In particular embodiments an internal system may maintain social graph information with edge type attributes that indicate whether a given friend connection is an internal connection an external connection or both. An internal connection may be an implicit or explicit friend connection between two users of an internal system. Similarly an external connection may be an implicit or explicit friend connection between two users of an external system. As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may maintain social graph information with edge type attributes that indicate whether a given friend connection is in the social graph hosted and managed by event management system and therefore an internal connection is in the social graph hosted and managed by social networking system and therefore an external connection or both. Although this disclosure describes particular systems hosting and managing particular social graphs and social networks this disclosure contemplates any suitable systems hosting and managing any suitable social graphs and social networks. As an example and not by way of limitation the internal and external social graphs and social networks described above may be hosted and managed by social networking system event management system or both.

As shown in User has direct connections with several friends. When User has a direct connection with a second node the second node is referred to as a first degree friend. User has external connections to a plurality of friends forming external social network . Here Friend 1 and Friend 2 are first degree friends with User in his external social network . User also has internal connections to a plurality of friends forming internal social network . Here Friend 2 Friend 3 and Friend 4 are first degree friends with User in his internal social network . In some embodiments it is possible for a friend to be in both the external social network and the internal social network . Here Friend 2 has both an external connection and an internal connection with User such that Friend 2 is in both User s internal social network and User s external social network . In a social graph it is possible for individuals to be connected to other individuals through their first degree friends i.e. friends of friends . As described above each edge required to connect a first user to a second user is considered the degree of separation. For example shows that User has four second degree friends that he is connected to via his connection to his first degree friends. Here second degree Friend 1 and Friend 2 are connected to User via his first degree Friend 1. The limit on the depth of friend connections or the number of degrees of separation for associations that User is allowed is typically dictated by the restrictions and policies implemented by the social graph host. In particular embodiments User s social network may include Nth degree friends connected to him through a chain of intermediary degree friends as indicated in . As an example and not by way of limitation Nth degree Friend 1 is connected to User via second degree Friend 3 and one or more other higher degree friends. In particular embodiments it is possible for User to have a friend connected to him both in his internal and external social networks wherein the friend is at different degrees of separation in each network. For example if Friend 2 had a direct internal connection with User Friend 2 would be a second degree friend in User s external social network but a first degree friend in User s internal social network. Various embodiments of this disclosure may take advantage of and utilize the distinction among the various degrees of separation between two nodes and the distinction between internal and external connections.

In particular embodiments a social graph host may maintain social network information for users of the social graph. Social network information may include a user s name sex geographic location interests employment history education schedule relationships groups friend connections friend connection scores social graph usage history and other suitable social network information. Social graph information may be generated by the user such as for example by inputting the information into a social network profile. Social graph information may also be generated by the social graph host such as for example by accessing other systems that have information associated with the user .

In particular embodiments the friend connections in a user s social network can be formed explicitly e.g. users must actively friend each other or implicitly e.g. system observes user behaviors and friends users to each other . As used herein a connection or friend connection refers to a first degree connection between two users in a social graph. Various embodiments of this disclosure may take advantage of and utilize the distinction between implicit and explicit friend connection between two nodes.

In particular embodiments a friend connection may be explicit when a first user and a second user indicate to a social graph host such as for example social networking system or event management system that the system should establish an edge between their nodes in the social graph. As an example and not by way of limitation User may access a webpage associated with Friend 1 s social network account and click Add as Friend to establish a friend connection. The social graph host may then require Friend 1 to accept or verify the friend request. If Friend 1 accepts the friend request the social graph host may generate a connection between the two users on the social graph thereby expanding the social networks of both users. Both internal connections and external connections can be formed explicitly.

In particular embodiments a friend connection may be formed implicitly when a social graph host such as for example social networking system or event management system determines that a relationship exists between two users. A social graph host may analyze social network information event history information and other suitable information to infer friend connections

In particular embodiments the social graph host may analyze social network information for one or more users and infer friend connections therefrom. As an example and not by way of limitation internal connections may be generated by referencing an external social network . For example if User and Friend 2 are friends on external social network e.g. Facebook the internal social graph host may presume a friend connection between them and create an internal connection in their respective internal social networks . In particular embodiments a user s internal social network may comprise the user s entire external social network and further comprise additional internal connections formed explicitly or implicitly. As another example and not by way of limitation the social graph host may form friend connections programmatically based a user s social network information e.g. friend connections may be implied between all users in the same geographic area in the same company or in the same school .

In particular embodiments the social graph host may analyze event history information for one or more users and infer friend connections therefrom. As example and not by way of limitation event management system may analyze event history information for User and infer friend connections based on this information. The event management system may access User s event history information which may identify one or more events User has attended or has registered to attend as well as the number type geographic location venue performer other users in attendance at the event and other suitable event information. For example event management system may identify that User and Friend 3 attended a particular concert. The event management system may prompt these users to add each other as friends on their internal social networks or may even automatically create an internal connection between them on the internal social graph.

In particular embodiments the social graph host may analyze user behavior which may be synchronous or asynchronous in nature including interactions that may be widely separated in time and infer friend connections therefrom. As an example and not by way of limitation User may access and view a webpage associated with Friend 4 s social network account several times over the course of a week. The social graph host may then presume a friend connection between User and Friend 4 based on User s viewing activity.

In particular embodiments the social graph host may weight different factors differently when determining whether to form an implicit friend connection. As an example and not by way of limitation the social graph host may only imply an internal connection between two users when their friend factor exceeds a value of 1.0 where a bidirectional external connection between two users has a value of 0.7 a unidirectional external connection has a value of 0.4 and each concurrently attended event has a value of 0.2. Formation of the internal social network may be aided by a rating system that allows users to provide feedback about other users in the social graph. Continuing the example above giving another user a positive review has a value of 0.3 while giving that user a negative review has a value of 0.8.

Unless otherwise indicated reference to a friend connection between two or more users can be interpreted to cover both explicit and implicit connections. A friend connection may be unidirectional or bidirectional. It is also not a limitation of this description that two users who are deemed friends with a social graph for the purposes of this disclosure are not friends in real life i.e. in disintermediated interactions or the like but that could be the case.

In particular embodiments friend connections may be given a score such that friend connections between different nodes in a user s social network may have different scores. A score may represent the weight value rating importance or significance of a friend connection. A higher score may represent a more valuable or significant friend connection. As an example and not by way of limitation a friend connection may be scored on a scale of 0 to 1.0 wherein a score of 0 represent no friend connection and a score of 1.0 represents a maximum friend connection. As another example and not by way of limitation a friend connection may be scored on a scale of 1 to 10 wherein a score of 1 represents a minimum friend connection and a score of 10 represents a maximum friend connection. Although this disclosure describes using particular scales to score friend connections this disclosure contemplates any suitable scale for scoring friend connections. As used herein a connection or friend connection refers to a first degree connection between two users in a social graph. In particular embodiments various factors can affect the scoring of a friend connection. Various embodiment of this disclosure may take advantage of and utilize the distinction among the various scores of various friend connections.

In some embodiments only a subset of node pair combinations within a social graph may be given a friend connection score. As an example and not by way of limitation the social graph host may only score implicit and explicit friend connections. In other embodiments all node pair combinations within a social graph may be given a friend connection score. As an example and not by way of limitation the social graph host may select any two nodes from the social graph and assign a friend connection score between the nodes even if no friend connection previously existed between the nodes. Although this disclosure describes scoring friend connections between particular nodes in a social graph this disclosure contemplates scoring friend connections between any suitable nodes in a social graph.

In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the social network information associated with the first and second users. Social network information may include a user s name sex geographic location interests employment history education schedule relationships groups friend connections friend connection scores social graph usage history and other suitable social network information. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the degrees of separation between the first and second users on a social graph. As an example and not by way of limitation if two users of an external social graph are separated by two edges their internal connection may be given a score of 0.3 on an internal social graph based on their second degree connection on the external social graph. As another example and not by way of limitation if two nodes on an external social graph are separated by three edges their internal connection may be given a score of only 0.1 on the internal social graph. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the geographic locations of the first and second users. As an example and not by way of limitation if the first user and second user both list San Francisco as their hometown the social graph host may change the score of their friend connection by 0.1 based on their listing the same hometown. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the interests of the first and second users. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user and a second user both list Dungeons Dragons as an interest on their social network profiles the social graph host may change the score of their friend connection by 0.2 based on their shared interest. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on their friend connection scores with a third user. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user and a second user both have high friend connection scores with a third user the social graph host may increase the score of the friend connection between first and second users based on the strength of their friend connections with the third user. Although this disclosure describes scoring a friend connection based on particular social network information this disclosure contemplates scoring a friend connection based on any suitable social network information.

In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the event history information associated with the first and second users. Event history information may include event information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the events. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the number of event attended concurrently by the first and second users. The social graph host may give higher friend connection scores to users that attend more events concurrently. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user and a second user concurrently attended a particular concert the social graph host may change the score of their friend connection by 0.2. As another example and not by way of limitation if the first and second users concurrently attended two particular events the social graph host may change the score of their friend connection by 0.3. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the type of events attended concurrently by the first and second users. The social graph host may give higher friend connection scores to users that concurrently attend particular types of events. As an example and not by way of limitation attended a concert concurrently may change a friend connection score by 0.2 while attending a festival concurrently may change a friend connection score by 0.5. As another example and not by way of limitation concurrently attending an event that costs 10 may change a friend connection less than concurrently attending an event that costs 200. In particular embodiments the social graph host may score a friend connection between a first and second user based on the geographic location of the events attended by the first and second users. The social graph host may give higher friend connection scores to users that frequently visit the same venue location or place either concurrently or separately. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user attends a concert at Golden Gate Park and a second user later attends an art exhibit at Golden Gate Park the social graph host may change the score of their friend connection by 0.1 based on their attendance of events at the same location. Although this disclosure describes scoring a friend connection based on particular event history information this disclosure contemplates scoring a friend connection based on any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the scoring of friend connections may be based on whether the friend connections are explicit or implicit. As an example and not by way of limitation a social graph host may assign an explicit friend connection a score of 0.4 and an explicit friend connection a score of 0.6.

In particular embodiments the scoring of friend connections may be based on user feedback and reviews. As an example and not by way of limitation a social graph host may include a rating system that allows users to provide feedback about other 101 users in the social graph. If a first user gives a second user a positive review that may increase the score of the friend connection between the first and second users. Similarly if the first user gives the second user a negative review that may decrease the score of the friend connection between the first and second users. For example a positive review may change the score of a friend connection by 0.3 while a negative review may change the score of a friend connection by 0.8.

In particular embodiments an event management system may allow users to organize and manage events. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Events may occur online such as for example a web based seminar and offline such as for example a live seminar in a lecture hall . An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets managing funds from ticket sales promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow event attendees to view and manage various aspects of registering for an event such as for example viewing event listings viewing event information viewing event history information registering for events and purchasing tickets for events. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may use event management system to organize an event. The first user may input event information associated with the event. One or more second users may then use event management system to register for the event. The second users may view an event listing associated with the event and then purchase tickets for the event. Although this disclosure describes particular types of events this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of events. Moreover although this disclosure describes organizing and managing particular aspects of an event this disclosure contemplates organizing and managing any suitable aspects of an event.

In particular embodiments each event that event management system is managing has an associated event listing. An event listing may be accessed and displayed by any suitable client system . An event listing may have an event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer attendees and other suitable event information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of event information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of event information.

In particular embodiments each user of event management system may have an event history information associated with the user . Event history information may include event information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the event. Although this disclosure describes particular event history information this disclosure contemplates any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the event management system may use unique client identifiers to identify a user . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each client system . The event management system may assign each client system with an unique client identifier based on the IP address of the client system tracking cookies on the client system which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by the client system the serial number or asset tag of the client system or other suitable identifying information. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each user which the user must provide to the event management system via a client system . The event management system may assign each user with a username and password that the user can input into client system which then transmits the username and password to the event management system . In particular embodiments the event management system can use the unique client identifier to determine that the user is accessing the system.

In particular embodiments the event management system may maintain an event management account for a user . The event management account may contain a variety of information about the user . As an example and not by way of limitation an event management account may contain personal information such as for example name sex location and interests social network information such as for example friend connections financial information such as for example income and credit history event history information such as for example the type data cost venue performers and geographic location of the events a user has organized registered for or attended and other suitable information related to the user .

In particular embodiments an event management system may use a shopping cart model to facilitate event registration. Event management system may present a user with a plurality of event listings. The user may select one or more of the events to register for. When the user selects an event listing on event management system the event management system metaphorically adds that item to a shopping cart. When the user is done selecting event listings then all the items in the shopping cart are checked out i.e. ordered when the user provides billing information and possibly shipment information . In some embodiments when a user selects an event listing then that event listing is checked out by automatically prompting the user for the billing and shipment information. The user then may be presented with a registration webpage that prompts the user for the user specific registration information to complete the registration. That webpage may be prefilled with information that was provided by the user when registering for another event or when establishing a user account on event management system . The information may then be validated by event management system and the registration is completed. At this point the user may be presented with a registration confirmation webpage that displays the details of the event and registration details.

In particular embodiments event management system may rank a set of event listings that are displayed to a user . A rank may represent the weight value rating importance or significance of an event listing. In particular embodiments the rank of an event listing represents a calculation by event management system of user interest in an event. Therefore a higher rank may represent an event that a user may be more interested in attending. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing may be ranked on a scale of 0 to 1.0 wherein a score of 0 represent no user interest and a score of 1.0 represents a maximum user interest. As another example and not by way of limitation an event listing may be ranked in relation to all other event listing in the set wherein each event listing is given a unique rank on a scale of 1 to n where n is the number of event listings in the set. For example if the set of event listings comprises five events event management system may assign each event listing a unique rank of 1 2 3 4 or 5 based on the date of the event where earlier events are given a higher rank. If the events are happening on Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday and Friday of this week event management system may rank the Monday event as 5 the Tuesday event as 4 the Wednesday event as 3 the Thursday event as 2 and the Friday event as 1. Event management system may then display these event listings to a user such that event listings with higher ranks are listed more prominently. Although this disclosure describes using particular scales to rank event listings this disclosure contemplates any suitable scale for ranking event listings. As used herein a connection or friend connection refers to a first degree connection between two users in a social graph. In particular embodiments various factors can affect the ranking of event listings. Various embodiment of this disclosure may take advantage of and utilize the distinction among the various ranks of various event listings.

Event management system may calculate a rank for an event listing based on a variety of factors such as for example event information associate with the event listing social network information associated with a user other suitable information or two or more such factors. The following is an example algorithm that event management system may use to calculate a rank for an event listing 

The following is another example algorithm that event management system may use to calculate a rank for an event listing 

Event listings may then be sorted based on their rank. Event listings with a ranking above a certain threshold may be displayed to a user . Although this disclosure describes calculating a rank for an event listing using a particular algorithm this disclosure contemplates calculating a rank for an event listing using any suitable algorithm. Moreover although this disclosure describes calculating a rank for an event listing using particular variables that represent particular information this disclosure contemplates calculating a rank for an event listing using any suitable variables representing any suitable information.

In some embodiments only a subset of event listings on event management system may be given a ranking. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may only rank event listings for events in a user s geographic area. In other embodiments all event listings on event management system may be given a ranking. Although this disclosure described ranking particular event listings this disclosure contemplates ranking any suitable event listings.

In particular embodiments the ranking of event listings may be based on social network information associated with a user . Social network information may include a user s name sex geographic location interests employment history education schedule relationships groups friend connections friend connection scores social graph usage history and other suitable social network information. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the geographic location of the user . As an example and not by way of limitation if user lists Manhattan as his current city in his social network profile event management system may give upcoming events in New York City a higher rank than events in Ithaca based on user s current city. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the interests of the user . As an example and not by way of limitation if user lists polka music among his interests in his social network profile event management system may give an upcoming polka music concert a higher rank based on user s interest in polka music. Although this disclosure describes ranking event listings based on particular social network information this disclosure contemplates ranking event listings based on any suitable social network information.

In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on event information associated with an event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer attendees and other suitable event information. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on type of event. The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for particular types of events. Event types that are typically more popular interesting or significant may be given higher ranks. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first event is a concert and a second event is a wine tasting seminar event management system may give the first event a higher rank than the second event based on the relative popularity of concerts versus wine tasting seminars. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the date of the event. The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for events that are closer to occurring. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first event occurs on October 14 and a second event occurs on October 23 the event management system may give the first event a higher rank than the second event based on the temporal proximity of the first event. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the cost to register for the event. The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for events that have a lower cost. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first event costs 20 and a second event costs 15 the event management system may give the second event a higher rank than the first event based on the lower cost of the second event. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the geographic location of the event. The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for events that are geographically proximate to a particular location such as for example a user s current location. Events that are in geographically remote unpopular or inaccessible locations may be given lower ranks. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first event is in San Francisco and a second event is in the Galapagos Islands the event management system may give the first event a higher rank than the second event based on the geographic remoteness of the second event. Although this disclosure describes ranking event listings based on particular event information this disclosure contemplates ranking event listings based on any suitable event information.

In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on event history information associated with a user . Event history information may include event information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the events. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the number of events attended concurrently by a user and one or more friends in the user s social network. The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for events that are similar to events a user concurrently attended with a friend in the user s social network. As an example and not by way of limitation user may have attended a concert with one or more friends and later attended a poetry reading alone. A user may be more likely to purchase tickets for an event that he can attend with friends. Therefore the event management system may give an upcoming concert a higher rank compared to an upcoming poetry reading based on user s history of attending concerts with friends. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the type of events previously attended by a user . The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for particular types of events. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user has attended numerous comic book conventions previously event management system may give an upcoming comic book convention a high rank based on the user s history of attending coming book conventions. As another example and not by way of limitation if a user has never attended an event costing more than 100 event management system may give an event costing more than 100 a low rank based on user s history of not attending more expensive events. In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on the geographic location of events previously attended by a user . The event management system may give higher ranks to event listings for events that are geographically proximate to events previously attended by the user . As an example and not by way of limitation if a user has attended events in San Francisco but has never attended an event in Oakland event management system may give an event in Oakland a low rank based on user s history of not attending events in Oakland. The event management system may also give higher ranks to event listings for events that are geographically proximate to a user s current geographic location. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user lives in Palo Alto event management system may give an event in Los Angeles a low rank based on the distance between Palo Alto and Los Angeles. Although this disclosure describes ranking event listings based on particular event history information this disclosure contemplates ranking friend listings based on any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on both social network information and event information. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may rank event listings based on the number of friends in a user s social network that have registered to attend each event. Event management system may access social network information such as for example from social networking system associated with the user to identify one or more friends in the user s social network. Event management system may then access event information associated with each event listing in a set of event listings. Event management system may then determine the number of friends of the user who are currently registered to attend each event. Event management system may then rank the event listings in the set based on the number of friends currently registered to attend each event where events with more friends currently registered are given a higher rank than events with fewer friends currently registered to attend. Although this disclosure describes ranking event listings based on particular social network information and event information this disclosure contemplates ranking friend listings based on any suitable combination of social network information event information and event history information.

In particular embodiments event management system may rank event listings based on user feedback and reviews. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may include a rating system that allows users to provide feedback about events. If a user gives an event at a particular venue a positive review the positive review may increase the rank of event listings for other events at that venue.

The recommended events section contains a plurality of the event listings that event management system has ranked and selected for display to User . As illustrated in the event listings displayed in section are a subset of the event listings managed by event management system that User has not yet registered to attend. Event management system may manage hundred or thousands of event listings however it has selected subset of five events to recommend to User . The recommended events section may be used to view one or more event listings that event management system has ranked. In this example the event management system has ranked the event listings based at least in part on User s social network information and the event information associated with each event listing. Each event listing in section displays the number of User s friends who are currently registered that event. For example four of User s friends are registered to attend the event Just Say Bucket Thursday s with Black Star Beer. Event management system may have accessed User s social network information and the event information associated with these events to determine which events User s friends have registered to attend. Event management system may rank events that User s friends have registered to attend more highly because User may be more likely to purchase tickets for an event that his friends are also attending.

The social details section contains a list of the friends in User s social network who have registered to attend a particular event. As illustrated in the social details section is displaying the friends in User s social network who have registered to attend the event Just Say Bucket Thursday s with Black Star Beer. The social details section may be used to view which friends in User s social network are attending a particular event and social network information associated with those friends. The social details section displayed in shows the names pictures and geographic locations of the friends of User who have registered to attend the event. User may access the social details section for an event listing by clicking on the event listing mousing over the event listing or otherwise interacting with the event listing.

The current registration section contains a list of the events that User is currently registered to attend. As illustrated in the list displayed in section is a subset of the events User is currently registered to attend. The current registration section may be used to view the event information associated with these events and to perform other actions such as modifying User s registration information purchasing more tickets printing tickets or checking in for an event. The current registration section displayed in shows a subset of the events that User is currently registered to attend. In this example the events are listed in chronological order with the soonest event listed first.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclsoure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

