---

title: Document signing systems and methods
abstract: A system and method for enabling electronic signing of an unsigned electronic document over the internet or similar network. Responsive to receipt of document and signer information from a document sender, a document execution server makes available to all signer users over a network, the unsigned electronic document, together with signature fields in the document. The document execution server receives over the network, from one or more of the signer users, signature data representative of signer user signatures associated with the respective signature fields of the unsigned electronic document. Responsive to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users, the document execution server generates a signed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594739&OS=09594739&RS=09594739
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09594739
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101020
---
This application is related to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 253 778 filed Oct. 21 2009 entitled Improved Systems and Methods for Document Signing U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 840 filed Oct. 20 2010 and entitled Computer Form Action Zone Summary System and Method and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 847 filed Oct. 20 2010 and entitled Form Completion Rate Enhancement System and Method all of which are fully incorporated by reference herein.

The present system and method relates to electronic commerce and more specifically to systems and methods for enabling users to execute electronic documents using biometric signatures.

Businesses and individuals rely on legally executed documents in a variety of contexts from completion of complex forms used by governments and institutions e.g. insurance forms car loan and purchase forms and the like to simple contracts between individuals e.g. lease agreements wills and a host of miscellaneous arrangements with a range of contracts in between.

Documents signed by overnight envelope take a minimum of one day to reach the recipient and an additional day to be returned. Due to intra office distribution delays and recipients tendency to put paper documents in to do piles the average cycle time using overnight envelopes is 5 7 days. Documents signed by fax have an average cycle time of 2 3 days due to intra office delays procrastination of paper document tasks and fax machine mishaps. Faced with the burden of signing a paper document and returning it by fax scan or mail many recipients put it down on their desk and forget about it.

While simply typing the signer s name fulfills the legal requirement for an online agreement users find a real signature more assuring and often third parties only accept documents signed by what appears to be a real signature i.e. one that looks as though an individual put pen to paper to apply a personal signature. For online document signing the presence of a handmade mark provides an extra level of authentication.

Some applications that allow documents to be signed online include typed signature i.e. a series of typed letters and or characters qualifies as a unique signer identifier. Others allow users to use an electronic pen on a separate pad piece of hardware to store an on site signature which signature then is correlated with a site specific activity i.e. signing for a credit card at the check out stand of a retail establishment. While graphics packages exist that allow users to create freestyle designs that are translated from a mouse or other peripheral device for purposes of developing creative works these typically are crude in effect and do not exactly mimic the weight velocity and other metrics that are associated with a unique user signature.

Thus there remains a need for a method and system for creating biometric signatures that have a high degree of specificity and correlation with the physical signing movements of a user. There also remains a need for having an integrated system that associates such a biometric signature with one or more documents to be signed and electronically transmitted over the internet for effective online document signing events.

In addition users are increasingly turning to exchanging executed documents online These documents not only include a field for including a signature such as the type described above but may also include additional fields that may require the signer to initial sign or take some other action. However in a large document signers may easily lose track of how many such fields they are required to complete i.e. sign initial fill with data and how many they already have completed. Thus when users of an online document exchange program encounter problems such as a signer not completing a document or a signer not understanding what actions are required they turn to customer support. This not only slows down the completion progress of a signing event but also increases the load on customer support. Thus there remains a need for a system that identifies the fields that require signer action.

The present system and method is directed to enabling electronic signing of an unsigned electronic document over the internet or similar network. Generally an unsigned electronic document includes content displayable to a signer user as text and or graphics on one or more pages and one or more signature fields at one or more locations on the pages wherein the signature fields are adapted to receive a signature of a signer user.

A document execution server is configured to receive over the network from a document sender the unsigned electronic document together with signer party data representative of the identities of one or more signer users who are to sign the unsigned electronic document. The server makes available to all signer users over the network the unsigned electronic document together with an online signature entry pad associated with each signature field in the unsigned electronic document. The document execution server receives over the network from one or more of the signer users signature data representative of one or more biometric actions by the respective signer users corresponding to entry of signer user signatures to the signature entry pads associated with the respective signature fields of the unsigned electronic document. In response to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users the document execution server generates a signed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document wherein the signed electronic document includes information representative of the signatures of the signer users and wherein the signed electronic document is displayable to signer users with the text and or graphic content and signature fields of the unsigned electronic document and a graphical representation of the received signature data in the respective signature fields.

Although the term signature field is used herein it includes entry fields for information or data other than signatures such as signer name signer initials addresses or any other information that may be requested by the document sender. The term signature may include any biometric action by the signer user such as freehand motion using a mouse electronic pen touch screen or any other method for detecting and recording either temporarily or in a stored location graphics unique to the signer user iris or other eye scan fingerprint s vocal sound or other biometrics as may be available.

In an alternative embodiment the document execution server establishes the received unsigned electronic document to be web ready. The document sender may be a signer user or the document sender is other than a signer user.

In another embodiment the document execution server generates authentication data associated with the received signature data from the respective signer users wherein the authentication data is substantially not changeable by any party. The document execution server may store the authentication data in association with the signed electronic document. The document execution server may also substantially irreversibly couple the authentication data with the signed electronic document. The document server may also send copies of the signed electronic document to the signer users.

In alternative embodiments the document execution server may prior to sending the unsigned document to the signer users modify the unsigned document to include flag data interpretable by the respective signer users to successively identify to the respective signer users the signature fields in the unsigned electronic document which require the entry of their signature or other action in the associated signature entry pads. This modified unsigned electronic document containing such flags may then be made available to the respective signer users for signing or other required action.

Alternatively the document execution server in conjunction with sending the unsigned document to the signer users may generate for each signer user summary data interpretable by each signer user to identify the locations in the unsigned electronic document requiring signature or other action by the respective signer users and sending the summary data to the respective signer users.

As used herein graphical representation of the received signature data in the respective signature data fields of the signed electronic document for the signer users may substantially match the signatures of the respective signer users. Further the signer party data representative of identities the signer users may include email addresses IP addresses SMS addresses or other electronic forms of address or identification for one or more of the signer users. Alternatively the signer party data representative of identities the signer users may include fax numbers for one or more of the signer users. A biometric action may correspond to a free form signature retina scan iris scan or fingerprint effected by a signer user.

The present system and method is directed to enabling electronic signing of an unsigned electronic document over the internet or similar network. As shown in the present system includes a document execution server DES in communication with a document and authentication data storage device . The document execution server is configured to receive over a network from a document sender an unsigned electronic document that contains one or more signature fields and data representative of the identities of signer users who are to sign the electronic document and parties to be copied. The document execution server sends the unsigned electronic document to one or more signer users identified by the document sender . Once each target signer user completes all designated signature fields for that signer user the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into a partially signed electronic document . Once all target signer users have completed all designated signature fields the input is combined to generate a completed signed electronic document . The completed signed electronic document may be logged and stored in the document and authentication data storage device for future use. The signed electronic document is made available either at the time of completion or at a later date to each of the signer users and the copied parties. In an alternative embodiment partial progress on an unsigned electronic document is saved by the signer user prior to that signer user completing the document.

The document execution server sends notifications to the document sender as well as user signers indicating the progress of the signing activity. For example the notifications may identify fields in the electronic document still requiring entry of data by one or more of the signer users.

In an alternative embodiment the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into an unsigned web ready document shown in having the same information and signature fields as the original document. Unsigned web ready documents are ready for dynamic entry of information into the signature fields by one or more signer users . This web ready conversion of the original documents may be achieved using standard conversion software and algorithms readily available and known to those skilled in the relevant art. For example a Microsoft Word Document can be opened in the OpenOffice Application exported as a PDF and then using pdf2swf from SWFTOOLS.org exported in Flash format which readily is displayable in most generally commercially available web browsers. In an alternative embodiment the unsigned electronic document is exported using similar tools into PNG files which are supported by commercially available web browsers and which technology is available in services such as DOCSTOC.com and SCRIBD.com.

After receiving the original unsigned electronic document and as applicable converting the document to an unsigned web ready document the document execution server makes available via a network either the original unsigned electronic document or the unsigned web ready document to a signer user together with an online signature entry pad associated with each signature field in the unsigned electronic document . In an embodiment the document execution server makes the unsigned electronic document available to multiple signer users either simultaneously or serially depending on instructions from the document sender or other external predetermined parameters and input. In an alternative embodiment the document execution server delivers the unsigned electronic document via an application programming interface API for access by predetermined signer users.

In response to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users the document execution server generates a signed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document and including the signature data.

In an embodiment the signed electronic document then is made available by the document execution server to all or a predetermined subset of the signer users and to the document sender for verification confirmation and other predetermined actions. In an embodiment the document execution server transmits the signed electronic document in a locked form to a document and authentication data storage device . This may be achieved for example by using common PKI signing techniques to generate a one way hash of the document that only could be generated from that specific locked document and only by an entity such as the document execution server with access to the PKI credentials. This hash fingerprint may then be stored in the authentication storage device or alternatively embedded back into the locked document in a process analogous to existing PDF signing standards.

As used herein a signer user may be the document sender or one or more third parties. In addition the term signature field as used herein includes entry fields for information or data that may include signatures signer name unique signer identifiers signature initials addresses or any other information that a document sender may identify as being acceptable forms information for a particular signature field. For example in one real estate transaction document one signature field type may require entry of the signer user s full legal name another signature field type may require entry of the target real property address another signature field type may include date data and such.

The term signature includes any biometric action by a signer user such as freehand motion using a mouse electronic pen touch screen or any other method for detecting and recording either temporarily or in a stored location graphics unique or capable of being associated with a particular signer user. It also includes iris or other eye scan data fingerprints vocal sound or voiceprints or other available biometrics. The freehand motion may either approximate electronically the signer user s traditional signature i.e. as performed with a pen or pencil on paper or may be a graphic that is quite dissimilar from the signer user s traditional signature. The freehand motion may include the velocity and timing of the user s movements in addition to or distinct from the resultant graphic image.

The flowchart of further illustrates an embodiment of the present method. As shown a document sender accesses the document execution server DES via a network such as the internet. The document sender then uploads the original electronic document to the document execution server. The document sender then indicates the name and contact information of each signer user each entity that will receive a copy of either the unsigned electronic document and or the signed electronic document and any order in which the signature fields contained in the subject document are to be completed by the designated signer users. The document sender also indicates at this time the locations of signature fields within the unsigned electronic document together with instructions regarding which signer user is required to complete which corresponding signature field. With multiple signer users different signer users generally are required to complete different signature fields as well as different signature field types. For example in a real estate transaction the buyer may be required to provide a signature a personal address and a date whereas an escrow agent may be required to provide a signature a license number and financial information.

As shown in in an embodiment the document execution server prepares a web ready version of the original document. The document execution server also may generate thumbnail displays flags or other indicia associated with the various signature fields for easier review by the signer user and a more expedient signer user completion of the designated signature fields.

Turning to once the document execution server receives the original document together with the additional document information from the document sender the document execution server follows the signing order instructions sent by the document sender. For each designated signer user the document execution server in effect prepares an unsigned electronic document associated with the original document and a signature entry pad for each signature field. All such information regarding the signer user and instructions related to the document are collectively referred to the envelope of the electronic document. Additional envelope information may include data associated with the identity of the signer user such as email address IP address SMS address facsimile number or other electronic forms of address or identification. This envelope is integrally associated with the original document and as such remains part of the associated electronic and web ready versions of the same document as such are generated by the document executive server.

In an alternative embodiment an API user such as another internet based device is the document sender which submits the original document and the associated signer user copied users signing order signature field locations and signature field authorizations to the document execution server. In an embodiment the API user receives delivery of the unsigned web ready documents on behalf of the designated signer users.

Once the unsigned electronic document is prepared the document execution server delivers an internet link code or embedded HTML via a network to the designated signer users. The network may include SMS email facsimile and other available technologies for distributing data. At a proximal time that the document execution server in effect transmits the unsigned electronic document to the signer users the document execution server may deliver updates of the event to the document sender and other designated entities to be copied on such transmission. In this manner the document sender can begin to track the progress of the document as the designated signer users complete the signature events.

Once the link code embedded HTML or other contact is made by the document execution server to a signer user that signer user then accesses the unsigned electronic document by following such link returning to the website interface for the document execution server interacts with the embedded HTML code from the API user or otherwise opens the unsigned electronic document. The document execution server locates the unsigned electronic document together with its associated envelope information and presents the same to each signer user.

In some embodiments web ready unsigned document versions are readied by the document execution server.

As continued in the signer user views the unsigned electronic document and enters the information requested in each of the signer user s respective signature fields. Information is entered into the signature field by the dynamic online signature entry pad associated with each signature field. Signature entry pads are dynamic fields that appear on the GUI to facilitate signer user entry of information required for the associated signature field. Such information may be entered using a touch pad mouse touch screen voice entry and other technologies generally commercially available.

Upon receipt of the entered information the document execution server creates a graphical representation of the signature field input received from the signer user. The document execution server then or at desired times in effect combines the graphical representations with the unsigned electronic document to generate a signed electronic document to define a signed event. In parallel with receiving the signature field input from the signer users and with generating each signed electronic document the document execution server delivers updates on the progress of the signing events to those entities identified as cc or copied entities as well as to the document sender. Once all signers have completed signing the document all graphical representations of all signature field input received from all signers is combined into a single signed document.

In alternate embodiments and as shown in the document execution server then may deliver a copy of the signed electronic document to each of the designated or selected ones of the signer users associated with that document. In an embodiment the document execution server optionally locks and stores a copy of the signed electronic document or may send a copy to a document and authentication data storage device for storage. In an embodiment the document execution server generates authentication data associated with the signed electronic document. Such authentication data may be data incorporated into the signed electronic document it may be part of the document envelope or may be some additional data used only for authentication purposes.

In an alternative embodiment of the present method predetermined template documents are created by third party entities or the administrator of the present method and stored in the document execution server for use by customer document senders via API. In such an embodiment as shown in a document sender or an application used by a document sender requests a list of template electronic documents. Such template documents have predetermined signature fields which are not generally changed or changeable by the document sender. An example of such an embodiment would be form lease agreements or other standard forms.

Upon receiving the request the document execution server delivers via API a list of available templates to the sender user. The sender user application selects a template. Upon receipt of the sender user template choice the document execution server performs document package pre process . This pre process generates a document ID associated with the template. It is possible that many document ID s are associated with each template and each unique document having an assigned unique document ID likely will have a unique envelope. The API then delivers the merge fields and roles associated with the envelope for the designated template. The sender user application provides merge data information relating to the signer users and other information and data required for the designated template. In this example the template is the unsigned electronic document identified and discussed above. The document execution server processes the unsigned template document in a manner similar to that described above and sends links via email to each designated signer user. Each designated signer user provides the information required for each signature field. Upon receipt of all signature field data such data is incorporated into an unsigned template document and the document execution server locks the resulting signed electronic document as described in further detail above.

At that point the signed electronic document may be stored in a document and authentication data storage device and copies of the signed electronic document sent to designated signer users the document sender and others as designated by the document sender.

In some embodiments the sender application obtains a PDF copy and or component data via API. And in some embodiments a PDF copy is emailed to the sender.

In alternate embodiments sender users may select a template unsigned electronic document from a website from the user s own library or from secondary sources. Alternatively the step of processing the document may be followed by an API delivery of embedded signing codes. In an alternative embodiment all communications between the document sender and the document execution server or between the document execution server and one or more of the designated signer users may be via email facsimile SMS and other electronic communications methods generally available.

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the document execution server may prior to delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modify the unsigned electronic document to include flag data to successively identify to each respective signer user the signature fields in that unsigned electronic document which required data entry. The flag data is associated with visual flags as shown in may be some visual insignia such as a colored arrow or any other indicator noticeable by the signer user and generally recognizable by signer users as a flag that requires attention. The flags may be static within the unsigned document i.e. one flag is visually affixed adjacent each signature field. Alternatively the flags may be dynamic such that once a signature field is completed the flag changes for example it disappears changes colors moves and the like. This flag data typically is removed when the document execution server combines the unsigned document and graphical representations of signature field data to create the signed electronic document.

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the document execution serve may prior to or contemporaneous with delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modify the unsigned electronic document to include summary data associated with the document to assist signer users identify the locations of signature fields in the electronic document. Such summary data may be presented as a summary in a side menu to the document may appear visually on the same page as a signature field or may be presented anywhere on the visual periphery of document pages. It may include indicators such as the total number of signature fields in the subject document the number of signature fields that have been completed the number of signature fields remaining to be completed or any combination of such data. The summary data may be presented graphically as a bar as buttons as text as color indicators e.g. red for incomplete signature fields green for completed signature fields and the like. The summary data may be static by presenting location identification data e.g. page paragraph information associated with each signature field or by presenting the total number of signature fields contained in the subject document. Alternatively the summary data may be dynamic changing as the signer user completes each signature field.

Turning now to this series of screen shots shows an exemplary embodiment of the present system and method. shows a start up home screen for a website using the present system and method. Note that the sender user is prompted to Choose a Document name the People Involved aka signer users and enter a document Description. In the sender user viewing this screen selects an NDA mutual.pdf document from a selection of available template documents. The document sender may also import a self generated document or select a document from another source as available.

Although these screen shots show one implementation of the present method and system there are many variations on the specific systems used software programs and languages used and layout and design used in implementing the present method and system within the scope of the claims.

The various methods described above may be embodied in and fully automated by software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer storage device or devices hard disk storage solid state RAM and the like . The steps may be implemented using any type of computer storage device or devices and using any type or types of data repositories relational databases flat files caches and the like to store any data.

As will be appreciated various combinations of the features and methods described herein may be incorporated into a given system according to the invention. Accordingly all combinations of the disclosed features and methods fall within the scope of this disclosure.

Although this invention has been described in terms of certain embodiments other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art including embodiments which do not provide all of the benefits and features set forth herein are also within the scope of this invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is defined only by reference to the appended claims.

