---

title: Location context mining
abstract: Concepts and technologies are described herein for mining location contexts within document text. Through an implementation of the concepts and technologies presented herein, functionality can be provided for location context mining within articles, websites, travelogues, or other such documents. A location context is a concept associated with a specific location. For example, the contexts “beach” and “hula” are associated with Hawaii. Similarly, “glacier” and “polar bear” are contexts associated with Alaska. Location context mining can automatically discover locations and location contexts by mining information from a set of documents. User interfaces to support queries of the mined information are also presented herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572076&OS=08572076&RS=08572076
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08572076
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100422
---
There is a rich body of documents that may provide information associated with a location. For example travelogues are textual descriptions of a person s experience with a particular location. For instance a person might travel to New York City and write a travelogue that describes their travel experience.

Travelogues are currently written and shared in a variety of different scenarios on the Internet. For instance travelogues can be shared by way of content presented on World Wide Web Web sites Web forums Web logs blogs social networking sites and in myriad other ways. A large number of such sites are currently available on the Internet for writing and sharing travelogues. The large number of disparate sites containing travelogues and similar documents may prove troublesome to users or automated search mechanisms attempting to find relationships of concepts and contexts within the documents.

Concepts and technologies are described herein for mining location contexts within document text. Through an implementation of the concepts and technologies presented herein functionality can be provided for location context mining within articles websites travelogues or other such documents. A location context is a concept associated with a specific location. For example the contexts beach and hula are associated with Hawaii. Similarly glacier and polar bear are contexts associated with Alaska. Location context mining can automatically discover locations and location contexts by mining information from a set of documents.

According to one aspect presented herein location context mining can leverage location name identification to recognize locations contained within the documents. Also context words associated with these locations may be identified from the documents. Associations between the geographical location names and contexts may be established and relevance scores may be determined to quantify these associations and support search queries.

According to another aspect presented herein a user interface and associated query can support identifying locations associated with a specified location context. Similarly a user interface and associated query can support identifying location contexts associated with a specified location. The user interfaces can support map displays to geographically locate results. Result listings may also be provided to support linking to associated documents and document locations.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter might also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for mining location contexts within document text. The technology presented herein can support location and context related searching within a set of documents. For example a user researching wild animals in Alaska may ask two types of questions. The first type may relate to the types of wild animals making their habitat in Alaska. The second type of question may relate to which locations such as which national parks may be associated with a specific type of animals. Similarly users planning an outing to the seaside may ask which location has beautiful beach. Traditional online map systems generally fail to directly answer these types of location associated questions. For example a user may have traditionally had to browse tens of online documents to find the desired information.

The location context mining system presented herein can support location information search such as those examples given above. The location context mining system presented herein can associate a style word or context word with a geographical specific location. For example beach and hula are context words that may be associated with the location name Hawaii and glacier and polar bear are context words that may be associated with the location word Alaska. These location context associations may be automatically mined from online travelogues and other sets of documents.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of a computing system computer readable storage medium and computer implemented methodology for mining location contexts within document text will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of one operating environment for the various embodiments presented herein will be described. A location context mining module can mine one or more documents for relationships between location names and location context words. The documents may be located on servers within a network . For example the documents may be travel web sites travel blogs travelogues or any other documents containing references to geographical locations. The location names may be identified within the documents as a set of locations . The location context words may be identified within the documents as a set of location contexts .

A task within the location context mining module supporting score generation may be configured to generate one or more scores for each possible pairing of locations and location contexts . A task within the location context mining module supporting user interface generation may be configured to respond to a query from a user or other automated system. User interface generation may include responding to queries with information. User interface generation may also include the generation of graphical user interfaces GUI such as those discussed herein for location searching and context searching.

Score generation may include various scores serving as metrics of the associations or relationships between each pairing of locations and location contexts . Such scores may be referred to as popularity scores relevancy scores and so forth. An example of such a score may reflect the relevance between locations and location contexts that can be calculated for a given set of documents D where a location list X is extracted. Each element of the list of location words Xis the jlocation in the document D. The set of all possible location context words cfor each location words Xcan be defined according to the following expression where wis the kword in the document D the function l . . . is a measure of the distance between two words and T is a predefined threshold. That is there are less than T words between the location word Xand the word win the document D. As such the possible context words for the location word Xis the set of words positioned within T words of Xin the document.

The context word set cwill generally contain many commonly used words that may not actually serve as context to the location word X. A measure of inverse document frequency IDF may be employed to reduce the scores of commonly used words such as those that are common across many documents and are thus less likely to meaningfully relate to location word X. Examples of such words may include a the however or having. In contrast words like luau or Jupiter are not likely to be observed commonly across many documents. Common words will generally have relatively high document frequency and thus relatively low IDF. Thus IDF may be multiplied or otherwise factored into the scoring to reduce the relevancy of such common words. For example a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF score may be calculated for X w where X is the set of all possible locations and w is the set of all possible context words.

The TF IDF score may serve as a metric of the relevance of a term to a document within a set of documents. The relevance is proportional to the number of times a word appears in the document. However the relevance is lowered by the number of times the word appears in all documents of the set. A term count within a document is the number of times that the given term appears in the document. The term count may be normalized to prevent a bias towards long documents. The term frequency TF may be determined according to the expression 

The IDF may be obtained by dividing the total number of documents by the number of documents containing the term. A logarithm may then be taken of that result such as in the following expression 

These results may then be combined according to the expression where a higher TF IDF score implies a higher term frequency and a low document frequency of the term in the whole set of documents. Thus the TF IDF score tends to filter out common words.

Referring now to a user interface diagram illustrating aspects of a context search user interface according to various embodiments presented herein will be described. A window web page or other user interface display may support location context mining by presenting a context search user interface . A user input element such as a set of radio buttons can support a user selecting between a location search and a location context search. In the case of a location context search being selected the user can enter a location context word into a text input box . The search will then identify locations associated with the specified location context word. In the case of a location search being selected the user can enter a location word into the text input box . The search will then identify location contexts associated with the specified location word.

In the illustrated example a context search is specified by the user at the radio buttons and the location context word panda is provided for the search basis in the text input box . In response to the specified search a location list may be generated listing locations associated with the location context word entered into the text input box . For example locations may be listed that are associated with pandas. These may be locations where pandas are found.

The association between the context panda and the resultant locations may be based upon the scores from score generation . The elements of the location list may be ordered according to the generated scores. The elements of the location list may be presented as a list of hyperlinks. When the user selects one of the hyperlinks the corresponding location may be centered and highlighted on a map display . Selection of the hyperlink may also provide access to the documents by which the relationships between the location words and location context words were established.

Referring now to a user interface diagram illustrating aspects of a location search user interface according to various embodiments presented herein will be described. A window web page or other user interface display may support location context mining by presenting a location search user interface . A user input element such as a set of radio buttons can support a user selecting between a location search and a location context search. In the case of a location context search being selected the user can enter a location context word into a text input box . The search will then identify locations associated with the specified location context word. In the case of a location search being selected the user can enter a location word into the text input box . The search will then identify location contexts associated with the specified location word.

In the illustrated example a location search is specified by the user at the radio buttons and the location word Hawaii is provided for the search basis in the text input box . In response to the specified search a context list may be generated listing context words associated with Hawaii such as beach surf luau and volcano. Also a map may be displayed showing the geographical location associated with the location word Hawaii entered at the text input box .

The elements of the context list may be ordered according to the generated scores. The elements of the context list may be presented as a list of hyperlinks. When the user selects one of the hyperlinks the corresponding documents may be displayed. These documents may contain the context words related to the location.

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein for mining location contexts within document text. In particular is a flow diagram showing a routine that illustrates aspects of one process presented herein for location context mining.

It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein with respect to and the other FIGURES are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. These operations may also be performed in a different order than those described herein.

The routine begins at operation where the location context mining module can receive one or more documents . The documents may be travel web sites travel blogs travelogues or any other documents containing references to geographical locations.

At operation the location context mining module can identify location words within documents. The location words may be identified within the documents as a set of geographical locations . The location words may be identified by location word extraction classification identification or recognition. These functions may involve searching the documents for location words listed in a predefined location gazetteer.

At operation the location context mining module can identify candidate location context words within documents. The location context words may be identified within the documents as a set of location contexts . The location context words may by common non geographical words within a certain word count range from a given location word within the document.

At operation the location context mining module can establish a set of possible pairings between the location words and the candidate location context words. Each of the locations extracted from a document may be paired with the nearby location contexts from the same document. Alternatively each location may be paired with all of the location contexts or any subset of the location contexts .

At operation the location context mining module can generate scores for each pairing. The score generation task within the location context mining module may be configured to generate one or more scores for each possible pairing of locations and location contexts . The score generation may include various scores serving as metrics of the associations or relationships between each pairing of locations and location contexts . Such scores may be referred to as popularity scores relevancy scores and so forth.

At operation the location context mining module can support a query of location words based on location context words. The query can specify a location context word. A search may then identify locations associated with the specified location context word. The location context query may also provide an appropriate user interface such as the context search user interface .

At operation the location context mining module can support a query of location context words based on location words. The query can specify a location word. A search may then identify location contexts associated with the specified location word. The location query may also provide an appropriate user interface such as the location search user interface . The routine can terminate after operation .

Turning now to an illustrative computer architecture for a computer that can execute the software components described herein for mining location contexts within document text. The computer architecture shown in illustrates a conventional desktop laptop or server computer and may be utilized to execute any aspects of the software components presented herein. It should be appreciated however that the described software components can also be executed on other example computing environments such as mobile devices television set top boxes kiosks vehicular information systems mobile telephones embedded systems or otherwise. The computer architecture may apply to the computer executing the program modules associated with the mining of location contexts within document text.

The computer architecture illustrated in can include a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that can couple the system memory to the CPU . The system memory may provide memory used for the location context mining module . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup can be stored in the ROM . The computer may further include a mass storage device for storing an operating system software data and various program modules such as those associated with the location context mining module . The program modules can execute portions of software components processes and routines described herein.

The mass storage device can be connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not illustrated connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media can provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available computer storage media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the network . The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not illustrated . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a printer or other type of output device also not illustrated . A display device may be used for providing output from the computer in the form of text graphics video graphical user interface any other user interface elements or any combination thereof.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked desktop laptop server computer or other computing environment. The mass storage device ROM and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device the ROM and the RAM may store the program modules associated with the location name identification module for execution by the CPU . The mass storage device the ROM and the RAM may also store other types of program modules.

In general software applications or modules such as those associated with the location context mining module may when loaded into the CPU and executed transform the CPU and the overall computer from general purpose computing systems into special purpose computing systems customized to perform location context mining. The CPU may be constructed from any number of transistors or other discrete circuit elements which may individually or collectively assume any number of states. More specifically the CPU may operate as one or more finite state machines in response to executable instructions contained within the software or modules. These computer executable instructions may transform the CPU by specifying how the CPU transitions between states thereby physically transforming the transistors or other discrete hardware elements constituting the CPU .

Encoding the software or modules onto the mass storage device may also transform the physical structure of the mass storage device or associated computer readable storage media. The specific transformation of physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the computer readable storage media whether the computer readable storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like. For example if the computer readable storage media is implemented as semiconductor based memory the software or modules may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the software is encoded therein. For example the software may transform the states of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory.

As another example the computer readable storage media may be implemented using magnetic or optical technology. In such implementations the software or modules may transform the physical state of magnetic or optical media when the software is encoded therein. These transformations may include altering the magnetic characteristics of particular locations within given magnetic media. These transformations may also include altering the physical features or characteristics of particular locations within given optical media to change the optical characteristics of those locations. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for location context mining from document text are provided herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

