---

title: Managing device connectivity and network based services
abstract: Methods and apparatus are provided for interoperating a device with network based services. In one embodiment, a method includes detecting registration with a service account, providing a graphical display for user selection during output associated with content stored by the device, the graphical display identifying a network based service based on the service account, and detecting user selection of the graphical display, wherein the network based service relates to a network accessible third party service associated with the device based on the service account. The method may further include transmitting the content by the device based on the user selection to the network based service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122861&OS=09122861&RS=09122861
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 09122861
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100730
---
The present invention relates generally to connectivity for network enabled devices and more particularly to device interoperation with network services and management of device connectivity.

Network based applications provide many services including media sharing social networking entertainment etc. With the development of web based applications devices have been developed for network connectivity. Nonetheless a drawback of many conventional devices including network connectable devices is the ability to transfer content to another device and or network based application. With respect to transferring content one conventional approach is to couple a device to computing device in order to load content of the device on the computer for subsequent transfer based on one or more applications of the computer. This approach however does not allow for direct transmission of content by a device to a third party application. Another approach involves the use of third party applications loaded on devices to access a particular network based service. However access to many network based services such as popular social networking websites e.g. Facebook and media sharing services e.g. Flickr YouTube etc. require login for transfer of media. Further many conventional devices doe not include a user interface to access to network based services. Accordingly content stored on these devices must be transferred to a users computer. Another conventional approach relates to DLNA devices to provide communication between devices. This approach however is typically limited to transfer of content between DLNA devices. Thus there exists a need to manage connectivity of network enabled devices.

Further there exists a need for managing functionality of device and third party services accessible by way of communication networks. For many web based services which require login information there exists a desire to allow for connectivity of devices with the third party services which does not require users to manually program and manage settings of each device. Especially devices that may be less suitable for text or character input. For example many users do not wish for a camera or photoframe to include a character entry keypad. Thus there is a desire to improve management of user devices and a user interface that allow for improved management.

Disclosed and claimed herein are methods and apparatus for interoperating with network based services and device management device. In one embodiment the method includes detecting by the device registration with a service account providing a graphical display by the device for user selection during output associated with content stored by the device the graphical display identifying a network based service based on the service account detecting user selection of the graphical display wherein the network based service relates to a network accessible third party service associated with the device based on the service account and transmitting the content by the device based on the user selection to the network based service.

In another embodiment a system is provided including a device configured to interoperate with network based services by way of a communication network and an account server configured to communicate with the device by way of the communication network. The account server is configured to detect registration of the device with a service account provide a user interface for the service account to the device via the communication network the user interface including a graphical display for user selection to manage connectivity of the device based on the service account receive a user selection of transmitted media for a network based service based on user selection of the graphical display and transmit the media to the network based service based on the user selection.

Other aspects features and techniques of the invention will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art in view of the following detailed description of the invention.

One aspect of the present invention relates to device interoperation with network based services. In one embodiment a system and methods are provided for a user to establish a service account for managing connectivity of one or more user devices and network based services. A service account may relate to a personal account for an individual user. Service accounts may allow users to register compatible devices services and media content with the service account. In one embodiment a process is provided for interoperation of a device with network services to transmit content from a network enabled device to one or more network based services. The process may include providing a graphical display for user selection to transmit content stored in the device to a network based service based on a service account. In that fashion content may be transmitted by the device to one or more third party applications based on user registration with a service account. Similarly content may be transmitted by the device to one or more devices registered with the service account.

Another aspect of the invention is directed to managing user devices and device settings. In one embodiment users may manage one or more device settings based on registration and connection with a service account. Management of device settings based on the service account may allow for remote configuration of one or more devices. As a result one or more device settings may be changed for devices with minimal or no user interface. Similarly tasks that require text input such as the input of payment information can be handled on a user access terminal via a communication network. In certain embodiments device settings may further be accessible to customer support for improved service and analysis.

As used herein the terms a or an shall mean one or more than one. The term plurality shall mean two or more than two. The term another is defined as a second or more. The terms including and or having are open ended e.g. comprising . The term or as used herein is to be interpreted as inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C means any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C . An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

Reference throughout this document to one embodiment certain embodiments an embodiment or similar term means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of such phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner on one or more embodiments without limitation.

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the invention is described below with reference to operations that are performed by a computer system or a like electronic system. Such operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that operations that are symbolically represented include the manipulation by a processor such as a central processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations such as in system memory as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

When implemented in software the elements of the invention are essentially the code segments to perform the necessary tasks. The code segments can be stored in a processor readable medium which may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable mediums include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory or other non volatile memory a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk etc.

Referring now to the figures depicts a simplified system diagram according to one or more embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment system may be provided for managing connectivity between one or more user devices and services based on a service account. As depicted system includes service account server communication network devices user terminal and one or more third party servers shown as .

System may be configured to provide one or more functions for a user based on a service account. In one embodiment user devices may be associated with the service account. In another embodiment third party services may be associated with a service account. The service account may additionally allow for association of physical and or digital media with the users service account management of connections between one or more devices registered with the service account managing connection of products to third party services managing device settings remotely by a user technical support remote browsing of data stored on a device managing connectivity between devices based on a users relationships with third party social networks and or managing device connectivity in general.

Service account server may be configured to manage one or more service accounts. In one embodiment users and or owners of a device may register the device with service account server . Users may then access the service account via a user interface associated with the service account. A service account may provide service functionality and interaction patterns for managing connectivity between one or more devices associated with a service account and services. Although depicted as having a single service account server in it may be appreciated that system include a plurality of service account servers. Communication network may allow for one or more of wired and wireless communication. For example communication network may allow for network based communications including but not limited to LAN WAN WI FI etc.

In one embodiment devices may be configured for network communication with one or more network entities such as account server and one or more third party servers via communication network . Each service account may allow for a plurality of different device types. Accordingly devices may relate different types of devices. For example devices may relate to one or more of a TV photoframe camera imaging device media player e.g. DVD Blu ray audio player etc. personal communication device. In one embodiment users of devices may create access and or manage a service account via the device. In certain embodiments devices may only include limited user interface controls.

According to another embodiment users may create access and or manage a service account via a user terminal . User terminal may relate to a computing device e.g. personal computer laptop etc. and may be configured to communicate with service account server via communication network . One advantage of the invention may be to provide media associated with one or more devices to third party servers without requiring a user to first transfer the media to user terminal . According to another embodiment management of the devices via user terminal may be provided based on a service account. Once a service account is created by the user the user may access the service account from service account server to manage devices social networking relationships etc.

Referring now to a process is depicted for managing connections of a device according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Process may be performed by one or more of the devices of for interoperation with one or more services based on a service account. In an exemplary embodiment process may be employed for transmitting content such as media to at least one of another device registered with the service account and a third party application service. Process may be initiated by detecting an association of the device with a service account at block . In one embodiment association of the device with the service account relates to registration of the device for communication with one or more of a server associated with the service account e.g. service account server and a server associated with a third party application. As will be discussed in more detail below with respect to a service account may be created during user registration of a device. Based on device registration the device may receive information and or data to recognize an association with the service account. In certain embodiments the service account may provide a compatibility service relative to one or more devices and users associated with a user based on the service account.

Process may continue by the device displaying a graphical display e.g. message icon etc. at block . In one embodiment one or more of a graphical message or display indicator may be displayed by the device to notify a user that media may be transmitted from the device based on the service account. Display at block may be performed by the device during user operation of the device. For example during playback of media on the device such as image data the device may display a graphical message that a user may select. Media output by the device may relate to image data audio data video table identifying media etc. The graphical message may identify a third party service device associated with the service account user and or friend service account etc. Display of the graphical message may be temporary and may coincide with display and or playback of media. In certain embodiments the graphical message may be a graphical icon which may be displayed during viewing of media by a user. When the device relates to a camera the graphical display may be provided by the device following capture of image data. In one embodiment the graphical display relates to a pop up graphical display including an identifier of one or more of a third party application and a device associated with the user s service account.

At block selection of the graphical display may be detected by the device. Selection may relate to user selection of a button on the device user selection of a touch screen displaying the graphical display and or user manipulation of one or more input output elements of a user interface of the device. Based on the user selection the device may transmit content associated with the selection at block . In one embodiment transmitting media relates to transmission to a server associated with a third party application. In another embodiment transmitting media relates to transmission to a device associated with the users service account.

Although process has been described above with reference to media or a media file it should be appreciated that other types of data and or files may be transmitted by a device based on process .

I O interface may include one or more buttons for user input such as a numerical keypad volume control channel control menu controls pointing device track ball mode selection buttons and playback functionality e.g. play stop pause forward reverse slow motion etc . Buttons of I O interface may include hard and soft buttons wherein functionality of the soft buttons may be based on one or more applications running on device . I O interface may be configured to allow for one or more devices to communicate with device via wired or wireless communication. I O interface may include one or more ports for receiving data including ports for removable memory. In another embodiment device may include one or more optical drives not shown in which may be configured to detect and decode one or more media files stored on a disc e.g. CD DVD Blu ray etc. .

Network communication interface may be configured to allow for network based communications including but not limited to LAN WAN Wi Fi etc. Display may be employed to display one or more of a user interface for a service account menu functions media file identifiers sources of media files etc.

Referring now to a process is depicted for registering a device with a service account according to one or more embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment association of a device e.g. device with a service account may be based on registering the device with an account server. Registration of a device with a service account may be performed by a user following purchase of the device. In certain embodiments devices may be pre loaded with software and or computer executable program code to allow a user to register the device during initialization and startup of the device. Compatible devices maybe configured for communication with a network e.g. temporary constant connection and may be configured to support one or more software and or computer executable programs for a service account.

Process may be initiated at block based on user access of a service account. In one embodiment a user interface may be provided by an account server e.g. account server via a communication network for access to a service account. The user may access the account server and register a device based on the user interface via a user terminal e.g. user terminal . In another embodiment users may access the a UI interface to register a device with a service account using a device to be registered. Process may continue by detecting user selection to register a device at block . User selection at block may be based on user selection of the interface. Alternatively user registration may relate to selection of a pop up image displayed by a device to be registered. Based on the user selection at block the account server may generate a registration code at block . In one embodiment the registration code may relate to a display pattern which may be displayed by the user interface and emulated by the user on a device for registration. In certain embodiments the registration code may relate to a certain pass phrase made up on one or more words string of characters etc.

At block a user transmission of the registration code may be received. At block a device may be registered with the account service when the registration is verified.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface of a service account according to one or more embodiments of the invention. User interface may relate to a user interface displayed during access to an account server e.g. account server by one or more of a device to be registered with the service account and a user terminal. In certain embodiments the user interface may be provided by a network browser application. As depicted in user interface includes address bar which may be employed to access the address of an account server e.g. URL associated with the account server . In certain embodiments address bar may be employed to access one or more third party services such as photo sharing websites social networking websites etc.

User interface includes a plurality of tabs shown as each of which may be selectable by the user for one or more management functions associated with a device. Based on a user selection such as Products as depicted in a window may be displayed by the user interface. Window includes a selection button for activating a product when no devices have been registered.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted for activating a device according to one embodiment of the invention. Device includes display and may be configured to provide graphical display to activate this product. Graphical display may be displayed by the device during the first power up. Based on the user selection of the graphical display the device may be configured to transmit data to an account server e.g. account server. In some instances the device may prompt the user to register with a service account when and or enter account credentials.

According to one embodiment of the invention registration of a device with a service account may be based on an activation pattern generated by an account server. By way of example based on user selection of a graphical display to register a device an account server may generate and transmit an activation pattern. In one embodiment the activation pattern may be sent to a user terminal employed by a user to register a device.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface displaying an activation pattern according to one or more embodiments. Based on user selection of a graphical display on a user interface e.g. graphical display and or a graphical display on a device e.g. graphical display a user interface may display a product activation pattern received by an account server. As depicted in selection of a Products tab shown by of the user interface may display window including activation pattern . Activation pattern relates to a grid pattern wherein certain blocks are selected or marked shown as . an activation pattern may allow for device manufactures to limit the number of buttons and or user interface options required on the device. Based on the displayed product activation pattern a user can register a device by emulating the activation pattern on the device. When an account server receives the proper activation pattern from a device the account server may register the particular device to the service account. One advantage of employing the service account based on an activation pattern may be to simplify entering a key code on the device. It may also be appreciated that a user enter device credentials into the user interface in one embodiment.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of entering a product activation pattern on a device according to one embodiment. Based on user selection of a graphical display on a user interface e.g. graphical display a user interface of the device may be prompted to display a pattern for the user to emulate the activation pattern. As depicted in device may display empty pattern. Display window includes empty pattern wherein boxes of the pattern are uniform according to one embodiment. Based on user selection of the device the display window may update the graphical display shown as display window . By emulating a pattern display on a user interface of a terminal the user may authenticate the device.

In certain embodiments once a devices is associated with a service account a user interface of the service account may display one or more registered devices. Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Based on user selection of a Products tab shown as the user interface may display window identifying one or more device associated with the service account. Display window may include a graphical display of each device associated with the service account such as camera and photoframe . Display window may further include identifying information for the camera shown as and identifying information for the photoframe shown as . According to another embodiment of the invention the display window may allow for management of the devices based on data of the device. For example the account server may be configured to request data of the device such as available storage space for camera shown as and or battery operating life for the photoframe shown as . Display window may further include one or more selectable links shown as a user may select to receive information and manage a device including but not limited to product settings connected services connected products and support. Display window may additionally display graphical display to activate one or more additional products.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface according to another embodiment of the invention. User interface may be employed for configuring a device. For example user selection of a device e.g. camera can result in graphical display of the device shown as and window including on or more selections for configuring set up of the device. For example as shown by the user interface may allow a user to set up backup settings of the device and configuration of media sharing associated with the device to allow or restrict others from viewing media on the device based on the network communication ability of the device. Once selections are made such as by selection of a check box the user may select update button to store setting of an account server. In that fashion the user interface may transmit the update settings to an account server.

Referring now to a process is depicted for changing device settings according to one embodiment of the invention. In one embodiment device settings may be accessed and or changed using a service account. In that fashion management of one or more remotely located devices associated with the service account may be provided. Similarly device operation may be controlled. For example a movie download at a users residence may be initiated for a device by assessing the service account. Process may be initiated by detecting selection of a registered device on a user interface at block and detection of one or more settings of a device at block . In one embodiment settings accessible by the service account may relate to full device settings a subset of device settings and a settings not accessible on the device itself. The account server may then check to determine if the device may be reached via the network e.g. network at block . When a device is not reachable via the network NO path out of decision block the account server may then store device settings at block . When a device is reachable via the network YES path out of decision block the account server may then transmit user selected device settings at block to the device. In that fashion management of device features may be provided based on an service account.

Process may advantageously allow for changing one or more setting of devices with minimal or no user interface such as a digital photoframe. Similarly tasks that require text input such as the input of payment information can be handled on a user access terminal which includes a full size keyboard. In certain embodiments device settings may further be accessible to customer support for improved service and analysis.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface for selecting one or more services based on a service account. User interface may include display of services such as third party services based on selection of a services tab shown by . According to one embodiment user interface may be configured to populate display window with third party applications for photo sharing video sharing social networking blogging messaging and data back up . In another embodiment the user interface may allow for a user to specify one or more services.

Referring now to a process is depicted for registering a third party service with an account. A service account may allow for a user to associate preferred third party services with the account. Process may be initiated by detecting user selection of a third party service at block . Third party services may be provided by one or more of public application programming interfaces APIs and negotiation of support wit the third party service provider. Detection of the third party service may be on a user interface provided by an account server e.g. account server and or via an application on a device. At block the account server may detect user authorization of a third party service. Authorization of the third party service may be provided by a user providing credentials for storage with the service account via the user interface. By storing user credentials for a third party service the service account can allow for connections to the service for any devices or other third party services registered to the service account. The account server may store the user credentials at block and associate the third party account with one or more devices at block . In one embodiment user credentials may relate to user login information including user identification and password. Alternatively it may be appreciated that user credentials stored at block provide access to a third party service without requiring the login identification and password of the third party service. For example one or more of a public key identifier and certificate may be employed for user authentication. One advantage of registering a third party service with a service account may be that changes to the third party service authentication e.g. password change need only to be made once not individually on every device associated with the service account.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface for registering a third party service with a service account. User interface may allow for integration of a third party service with a service account. As depicted user interface may display window based on user selection of a service. By way of example includes display of an Image Sharing Service e.g. third party service . Display window may include display of a graphical element associated with the service shown as . Display window may additionally include a description shown as of the service and login window . By entering credentials such as a username in box and password in box a user may associate the service account with the third party service by selecting activate service button . Display window may further include service information shown as to provide a description of the service.

According to another embodiment content may be exchanged relative to a device and services associated with the device based on the service account. The service account may support direct transfer of data between a source and destination that are both associated with the service account. Alternatively or in combination content may be transferred indirectly wherein content is first transferred to the service account via the communication network and then forwarded to a destination.

Referring now to a process is depicted for indirect transfer of content associated with a device according to one embodiment. In certain embodiments a device may transmit content to an account server via a communication network for transmission by the account server to a third party service. One advantage of process may be to avoid transmission from the device to a plurality of servers by providing a single transmission point. Further the account server may allow for repeated attempts to transfer data without requiring a user to login to the third party website via the device. Process may be initiated at block by the account server receiving content from the device. The account server may then store the content at block and check for availability of the third party service at block . When the service is available the content may be transmitted to the designated address by the account server at block . In certain embodiments process may be employed to transfer content to a device. For example transfer of content from a user device such as a camera to another user device such as a digital photoframe associated with the users service account.

In that fashion processes and may be employed to transmit a photo from a camera to a display device such as a display or photoframe wherein transmitting and receiving devices are associate with the service account. Similarly a photo may be transmitted from a third party service such as a social networking site and a photoframe wherein the third party service and photoframe are each associated with the service account. In a further example processes and may be employed to transmit content such as one or more photos from a camera to a third party service such as a social networking service where each of the camera and third party service are associated with the same service account.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface for connecting one or more devices to a third party service. User interface may be provided based on selection of a services tab shown as for display of window . Based on user selection of services tab the user interface may allow users to manage service account. Based on selection of a service such as Image Sharing Service window may allow for a user to connect one or more products to the service view products that may be compatible with the service and manage one or more settings associated with the service. As further depicted in Connect your products tab shown as is selected. User interface window may display one or more devices such as camera which may be associated with service . A user may associate device with the service ISS by selecting graphical display . Based on the selection the account server may associate a user device with the service.

Referring now to a graphical representation of a device providing a graphical display associated with a third party service is depicted. Device includes display which may be employed for playback of content stored by the device. In certain embodiments device may be configured to display a graphical display to allow a user to transfer content to one or more services associated with a service account. As depicted graphical display may be employed to transmit displayed content on display to a service such as a third party service. In that fashion users of a device may transfer content from a device associated with the service account to a third party service via a network connection without the need to manually transfer content first to an intermediary device.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface for connecting a device to a third party service. User interface depicts selection of a products tab shown as wherein a device associated with the service account may be displayed in window . For example photoframe is display by the user interface. Window may include information associated with photoframe shown as . Window of user interface may allow a user to select connected services tab shown as for associating one or more services with photoframe . As depicted the connected services tab may display information associated with one or more services such as the image sharing service . A user may select graphical selection button to associate the image sharing service with photoframe .

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of user interface for managing device connections. User interface may include window for managing connections to photoframe based on user selection of connected products tab shown as in window the user can manage transfer of content relative to photoframe and camera . By way of example user selection of graphical display may result in transfer of content stored by device to photoframe . Alternatively or in combination user selection of graphical display may establish a connection between photoframe and camera wherein content may be automatically transferred to photoframe .

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a device according to one embodiment of the invention. Device may include display for display of content. Display may further display graphical display for user selection to transmit content to a third party service based on a service account. Similarly display may include graphical display which may be selected to send content displayed to a device shown as a photoframe. Transmission of content may be performed by the device based on user selection.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface for managing content associated with one or more devices registered with the service account. Based on user selection of a library tab shown as display window of user interface may display a users library shown as . The users library may relate to one or more media files and or media content played by one or more devices associated with the service account. As depicted in library may include content for movies music and shared content. It should also be appreciated that the user interface may store additional types of content and or media such as digital books videos etc. A movie listing for example may including a plurality of movie titles wherein a graphical image associated with the movie may be displayed shown as . User interface window may further include display of information and or links associated with movie including title information a user review link and link to share with a friend based on a social network .

In certain embodiments information associated with content may be determined by the user device reading an identifier associated with the media. For example some digital disc media e.g. Blu ray may include a unique identifier which may be read by the device and provided to the account server. Based on the unique ID the account server may be configured to retrieve additional content such as special features deleted scenes associated with the media content.

Referring now to a process is depicted for registering digital media content with a service account. Physical media may contain individual identification for each manufactured medium to allow users to provide ownership and secure access to digital content such as individual identification codes embedded in high definition optical media discs. In one embodiment registration of physical media with a service account may provide user access to additional content. For example registering an optical data disc may secure access to associated video content in a different format e.g. a phone friendly format . In another embodiment registering physical media with a service account may allow for access to additional media content such as outtakes commentary and special features in general. Process may be initiated by playback of media on a device at block . For example the device may play an optical data disc such as a Blu ray disc. Playback of the media may include decoding data associated with content and metadata such as a unique identifier. At block the device may transmit the media ID to an account server. The account server may then register media content with the user service action at block b and grant the user access to additional content at block .

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of user interface for managing social relationships associated with a service account. Based on user selection of a friends tab shown as display window of user interface may display a one or more user with service accounts associated with a user shown as . Display window may include tabs for selecting friends based on all friends family and or a tab to manage a user profile. As depicted window may include content for one or more social associations including image data for each friend. Data associated with a friend may be retrieved from a third party application or social networking site based on one or more services associated with a service account. In certain embodiment s icons may be displayed associated with each third party application associated with a friend shown as . Based on user selection of the social networking icon user interface may access the social networking site. According to another embodiment of the invention the user interface may allow for a user to share content or media associated with a device with the social network site as shown by . For example user interface may allow for a user to transfer content to post on a friends social networking site.

Referring now to a process is depicted from managing device connectivity based on social relationships. Social relationships may relate to one or more friends or associations provided by a third party social networking service wherein the users friends are registered with a service account. In certain embodiments social relationships may be provided by a service account with one or more other users registered with the service account. In one embodiment a device may be configured to transmit media to another device based on a users social relationship. Transmission of content can require that devices registered with each users service account are compatible. Transfer of content may be provided based on a service account and social relationship between the users of each service account. Process may be initiated by detecting a device via the service account. For example the user of a first device may detect one or more devices associated with another user via the service account. Identification of devices may be based on a particular device of the first user such as an imaging device. Using the service account and or a user interface provided by the account server or application executed on the first users device a service request may be transmitted to the second users device at block . The service request may relate to a connection request for transferring content. Alternatively or in combination the service request may check if the second device is currently operating and or in a powered state. At block connections of the devices to a third party application may be checked. For example the device connections may be checked if connected to a social network. At determination block the second device may be checked to determine if the device is coupled to the network. When the second device is not in the network e.g. NO path out of decision block automatic connection of the devices will not be performed as shown by block . When the second device is coupled to the network e.g. YES path out of decision block an automatic connection will be granted to the devices at block . In that fashion the first and second devices may be connected to allow for a user of the first device to view content stored on the second device. In one embodiment data may be transferred via the third party application associating the two devices. According to another embodiment content may be transferred between devices via a communication network using the network address of each device. Content may also be transferred relative to the devices based on the account server associated with the service account.

Process may additionally allow for a first user to browse content of another user such as photos on a device associated with the first users service account such as a display device e.g. photoframe TV etc. . Similarly process may be employed by a first user to send photos from a camera registered with the first users service account to a second users photoframe. It may also be appreciated that a first user and a second user may be able to access photos captured by the first users camera and the second users camera for an event each attended based on metadata associated with time and location of the images captured.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

