---

title: Extended range optical imaging system for use in turbid media
abstract: An extended range optical imaging system and method for use in turbid media generates a beam of coherent light, modulates the beam of coherent light to encode scan information, directs the modulated beam of coherent light from a first location through the turbid medium toward a target, scans the modulated beam of coherent light over the target in a pattern, according to the scan information, to illuminate the target and to cause light to be reflected, detects the modulated light reflected from the target with a sensor at a second location in the turbid medium to derive an output signal that varies in proportion to the modulated reflected light, demodulates the output signal to derive information comprising the scan information, and constructs an image from the output signal and the scan information so derived.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08373862&OS=08373862&RS=08373862
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08373862
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100602
---
In general the intensity of light in a transmissive media decays exponentially. Over a round trip path the intensity of a beam of light is attenuated by ewhere c is the total attenuation coefficient of the medium and r is the distance from source to target. The distance at which light is attenuated by eis referred to as an attenuation length AL . In clear water this distance is between 20 to 30 meters and even less in a turbid media such as ocean water clouds fog smoke or tissue. This places practical limits on underwater optical imaging. At distances beyond about three AL laser based systems are typically used to image underwater targets. The U.S. Navy has been continuously developing underwater imaging systems for use in a variety of applications including Autonomous Underwater Vehicles AUVs and Remotely Operated underwater Vehicles ROVs to provide navigational data as well as other data for detecting the presence of mines and AUV s and ROV s.

Imaging theory based on the Modulation Transfer Function MTF predicts that an ideal self luminous source can be detected well over 15 AL under nighttime observation depending on the source size. In order to attempt to reach this theoretical limit the engineering task therefore becomes one of designing a system that can extract target detail as a sequence of discrete self luminous sources. One way to do this is to bring a laser source as close to a target as possible. However a nearby laser source that illuminates the entire target at the same time is not the answer. Scattering due to particles along the path between the target and a distant receiver a separate unit from the laser source will mix photons between neighboring pixels together and the target will become unrecognizable after a half dozen attenuation lengths. Under these circumstances a better imaging system especially for turbid media is one that makes use of an illuminator which scans each of the target pixels in a predetermined sequence as closely as possible to the target. The scanning of the target will produce a time varying intensity TVI signal at the distant receiver that is not adversely affected by scattering. This is due to the fact that since the laser illuminates only a small portion of the target of interest at a time all of the light that is reflected by the scene at each scan position even the multiply scattered light carries useable information about the target. Thus the receiver can collect all of the light reflected by each pixel in the scene and still produce high quality images over many attenuation lengths. An image of the target and its details can then be reconstructed remotely e.g. onboard a nearby ship as long as the predetermined scanning sequence used for target illumination is known.

Such a system was built in the early 1970 s at the Scripp s Visibility Laboratory and experimental data collected by this prototype system confirmed the soundness of the approach and an associated imaging capability of between 15 and 20 attenuation lengths at 640 nm. See S Q Duntley R. W. Austin R. L. Ensminger T. J. Petzold and R C. Smith Experimental TVI System Report Visibility Laboratory Technical Report 74 1 Part I July 1974 and Part II October 1974. A flash lamp co located with the laser source produced an optical signal that was used for synchronization. The flash of light indicated the beginning of a scan and the remote receiver synchronized its data collection with this optical trigger. This system produced impressive underwater images at greater than 20 attenuation lengths in turbid harbor water.

A drawback of this system was that a separate flash lamp source was needed to convey the start of a scan to the distant receiver. Moreover this was the only information that the receiver had concerning the scan. Therefore certain things had to be assumed by the receiver such as standoff distance scan rate and scan angle so that it could correctly recreate the image. Another disadvantage was the fact that this initial system used a red laser with a wavelength of 640 nm. Better performance is generally expected with a laser in the blue green region of the optical spectrum due to the lower absorption at shorter wavelengths. Finally two optical receivers were needed in order to separate the laser light reflected from the scene of interest from the flash lamp used to synchronize the beginning of the scan. Embodiments according to the present invention are directed to solving the foregoing problems.

In general in one aspect a method for optically imaging a target in a turbid medium includes generating a beam of coherent light modulating the beam of coherent light to encode scan information directing the modulated beam of coherent light from a first location through the turbid medium toward the target scanning the modulated beam of coherent light over the target in a pattern according to the scan information to illuminate the target and to cause light to be reflected detecting the modulated light reflected from the target with a sensor at a second location in the turbid medium to derive an output signal that varies in proportion to the modulated reflected light demodulating the output signal to derive information comprising the scan information and constructing an image from the output signal and the scan information so derived.

In general in another aspect an apparatus to optically image a target in a turbid medium includes a source of coherent electromagnetic energy that emits a beam that is transmissible in a turbid medium a modulator to modulate the beam of electromagnetic energy with information comprising scan information a scanner to direct the beam through the turbid medium and to scan the beam over the target a detector to detect the electromagnetic energy reflected from the target and to output a signal a demodulator to demodulate the output signal from the detector and to derive information comprising the scan information an analog to digital converter to digitize the demodulated output signal from the detector and an image processor to convert the digitized signal from the analog to digital converter to a grayscale image.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which are a part of this patent disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

A diagram of a laboratory prototype embodiment according to the invention is shown in . A blue green laser is intensity modulated by an external electro optic EO modulator to produce a modulated laser beam . The modulated laser beam is directed to a scanner for example a galvanometer scanner which scans the beam in a pattern over a target located in a turbid medium . In the laboratory prototype the turbid media is water to which Maalox antacid has been added to simulate scattering in seawater. Although a wide variety of lasers would work lasers that operate in the blue or blue green wavelength region are most suitable for underwater imaging applications and are thus preferred. In this embodiment laser is a 532 nm green diode pumped solid state continuous wave laser. 532 nm lasers are relatively inexpensive and readily available. In alternative embodiments other types of lasers which may be continuous or pulsed and of other wavelengths may be employed.

The EO modulator is driven by a radio frequency RF source . The RF source in this embodiment operates at a carrier frequency of 70 MHz. Other carrier frequencies could be used depending on the capabilities of the modulator and the bandwidth needs of a particular embodiment. RF source is modulated with scan information. The scan information includes a line delimiter which may be encoded as a phase shift a frequency shift a symbol or a combination of any of the foregoing. Scan information may also include for example indicia of the start and or the end of the scan or of a scan line the number of lines the scan rate and scan angles. As will be described below a variety of other information may also be added in alternative embodiments. Modulation is performed preferably via frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . Techniques based on modulating the amplitude of the RF source are not used since the amplitude of the RF envelope will be modulated by the reflectivity of the underwater object.

In the laboratory prototype constructed according to the present invention control functions are performed using National Instrument Company s LabVIEW a software program that runs on a general purpose computer PC and provides a wide variety of virtual test and measurement instruments. The virtual instruments are capable of interfacing with various I O devices. In this embodiment LabVIEW operates a Data Acquisition DAQ device which is a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card installed in the PC that outputs the FSK modulation to drive RF source . In this embodiment scan parameters number of lines scan rate scan angles etc. are input by an operator into the LabVIEW program. The scan parameters and DAQ device are also used to control scanner that directs the modulated laser beam in a predetermined pattern over the target . At the beginning of every scan and at the end of every scanned line the frequency of the RF source is changed. In other embodiments as noted the phase might be shifted or an alternative modulation symbol might be inserted to designate scan lines or other scan information. While LabVIEW is well suited for use in a laboratory test environment specialized software and hardware will perform the modulation synchronization scanning and image processing functions in embodiments designed for use in the field.

At some distance from target in the turbid media a photon detector detects the light scattered from target . Photon detector outputs a signal that varies proportionately with the intensity of the collected light. While a photomultiplier tube PMT is presently the device most suited to this application newly developed highly sensitive solid state photon detectors counters show promise for example silicon SiPM devices built from avalanche photodiode arrays. As such devices become commercially available they may be employed in alternative embodiments. The output signal from photon detector is split into an RF component and a DC component via a splitter which may be for example a bias tee. The DC component is conditioned by passing it through a low pass filter . The RF component is demodulated by an FSK demodulator and digitized by an analog to digital converter A D to retrieve the information that was encoded on the modulated laser beam i.e. start of scan number of lines scan rate scan angles etc. . The DC component which contains the reflectivity information from the target is also digitized by the A D . A voltage to grayscale image conversion processor then converts the DC digitized signal to grayscale levels. The frequency of the RF component is processed to decode the beginning of the scan as well as the end of each scanned line. Images are then created from the grayscale levels output by the grayscale image conversion processor . Separate images may be derived from both the DC and the RF components. In the laboratory embodiment where interference from other sources of light is not a problem only the DC component need be processed to construct images.

The modulated laser beam is transmitted to a scanner for example an X Y galvanometer which scans beam over an underwater target that is submerged in a turbid medium . As in the previous embodiment scan lines are delineated by a frequency change in the modulation or alternatively by a phase change or another modulation symbol or symbols.

At a distance of several AL s in the turbid medium a photon detector preferably a PMT detects the light scattered from the underwater target and outputs a signal that varies in amplitude in proportion to the intensity of the detected light. The output signal from photon detector is then split into an RF component and a DC component via a splitter preferably a bias tee . As in the previous embodiment the DC component is conditioned by passing through a low pass filter . In this embodiment RF component takes two paths. In one path the RF component is demodulated by an FSK demodulator and digitized by an analog to digital converter A D to retrieve the information that was coded on the transmitted waveform start of scan number of lines scan rate scan angles etc. . In the other path the amplitude of the RF component which contains the reflectivity information from the target is detected via an RF power detector and is digitized by A D .

The DC component which contains the reflectivity information from the target is simultaneously digitized by the A D . This digitized DC signal is monitored to ensure that the photon detector operates in a linear portion of its dynamic range. A voltage to grayscale image conversion processor converts the digitized signals from the RF power detector to grayscale levels. An image is then created from the grayscale levels output by the grayscale image conversion processor . In this embodiment the amplitude of the modulation envelope of the RF signal is preferably used to create the image instead of the DC coupled signal since the RF signal modulation envelope is not affected by changes in the ambient light level which can frequently take place in the field. As in the first embodiment the encoded information that was retrieved via the FSK demodulator is also used to construct the target images .

Embodiments of an extended range optical imaging system for use in a turbid media according to the present invention offer substantial benefits over the existing approaches. One distinct advantage is that modulation of the laser source may be used to provide the synchronization signal that informs the remote receiver that a scan has been initiated. Therefore the scattered light itself contains the synchronization information instead of relying on a separate optical trigger. The modulation may also be used to communicate information about the scan. For example the modulation phase may be varied on a pixel by pixel or a line by line basis so that the receiver can more accurately construct the images. The modulation phase may also be processed to obtain target range information to create three dimensional images. Additional comm data may also be encoded in the laser depending on bandwidth capabilities of the laser modulator. For example position reports as well as command and control communications including velocity timing and status may be communicated to from or among autonomous underwater vehicles as well as other underwater platforms that incorporate systems according to the present invention.

Other information besides the scan details could also be conveyed via the RF modulation such as location of the laser illuminator relative to the area being surveyed. It is also possible to establish a direct communications link between the laser illuminator and the distant receiver without reflecting first off of the underwater target . This may be particularly useful in scenarios where the underwater target has very low contrast and the signal reflected from the underwater target is very weak. This communications only signal could be transmitted via diffuse light as is the case when the light is reflected from a diffuse object which reduces the pointing and tracking requirements on an underwater optical communications link.

Additionally in alternative embodiments multiple AUV s may each be equipped with an imaging light source according to the present invention. Each AUV would be provided with its own uniquely identifiable illuminator to enable coordinated and rapid inspection of a region of interest. By assigning different modulation frequencies or by providing each AUV with a unique identifier a single remote receiver may discriminate among them and construct composite images. AUV s could also detect and process modulated light signals from other units in the vicinity and thereby avoid collisions with them as well as receive data concerning the location of hazards detected by other AUV s such as mines. Additionally an array of scanning lasers may be directed at one or more targets from a single location.

Although the embodiments illustrated in employ continuous wave lasers a modulated pulsed source could also be used instead of the modulated continuous wave sources described here. All digital approaches could also be used that would replace the RF splitter power detector and FSK demodulator with a high speed A D and a digital demodulator.

As has been shown embodiments according to the invention may be used to provide high quality images of targets submersed in a turbid media over an extended range. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims and their legal equivalents.

