---

title: Accelerated instant replay for co-present and distributed meetings
abstract: Techniques for recording and replay of a live conference while still attending the live conference are described. A conferencing system includes a user interface generator, a live conference processing module, and a replay processing module. The user interface generator is configured to generate a user interface that includes a replay control panel and one or more output panels. The live conference processing module is configured to extract information included in received conferencing data that is associated with one or more conferencing modalities, and to display the information in the one or more output panels in a live manner (e.g., as a live conference). The replay processing module is configured to enable information associated with the one or more conferencing modalities corresponding to a time of the conference session prior to live to be presented at a desired rate, possibly different from the real-time rate, if a replay mode is selected in the replay control panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08797380&OS=08797380&RS=08797380
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08797380
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
When people attend meetings or conferences e.g. business meetings lectures events etc. they often miss important parts of the discussion because they arrived late they had to step out of the room or they became distracted. As a result such persons generally would like to catch up on what they missed from the meeting. They may ask other meeting participants to update them on what they missed but such an approach may disrupt the flow of the meeting.

Different types of conferencing techniques exist for enabling persons located remotely from each other to participate in a meeting. For instance a teleconference is the live exchange of information in audio form among persons located remotely from each another using devices linked by a telecommunications system. A videoconference is similar to a teleconference where persons that are located remotely from each other are enabled to exchange information in not only audio but also video form. Telepresence is still another technology that enables remotely located persons to interact with each other such as being enabled to perform videoconferencing with application sharing. Such conferencing techniques for distributed meetings may also suffer from the deficiencies mentioned above for face to face meetings where persons may miss a portion of a conference and thus would like to catch up on what they missed. Moreover such persons may want to be able to catch up on what they missed while the conference is still being conducted so that they can participate in later portions of the conference. Such a situation is very different from a digital video recording scenario where it does not matter if the recorded content is watched live e.g. watching a broadcast television program as it is received or in recorded form e.g. recording the broadcast television program and watching it later . Reviewing portions of a conference while it is still live is a different and much more difficult problem than watching recorded television programs.

Research has been performed on developing techniques for meeting capture and replay. According to the majority of such techniques however replay is enabled to be performed after the meeting is over. Another existing meeting capture and replay technique enables faster audio replay. The audio portion of a conference is recorded analyzed less important segments of audio are dropped and the remaining audio is played back to enable persons to hear earlier portions of the conference. Removing unnecessary segments from audio has the effect of speeding up playback causing the replay to catch up with the live conference. However as described above modern conferences may have more modalities than just audio such as video text and shared data. Eliminating unimportant parts for video and shared data modalities is not trivial and prone to errors.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Methods systems and computer program products are described herein for recording and replaying aspects of live meetings conferences. Aspects of a conference are recorded and during the meeting users are enabled to replay the recorded information so that they can hear and or see portions of the meeting that they missed and or that they want to hear see again. Furthermore when replaying a past portion of a conference the user may simultaneously be attending the conference in a live fashion. As such the user is enabled to review past portions of the conference while participating in the live conference.

For instance in one implementation a conferencing system is provided that includes a user interface generator a live conference processing module and a replay processing module. The user interface generator is configured to generate a user interface that includes one or more output panels and a replay control panel. The live conference processing module is configured to receive conferencing data associated with a conference session to extract information included in the received conferencing data that is associated with one or more or conferencing modalities and to display the information in the one or more output panels in live form. The replay control panel is configured to enable a user to select a replay mode by interacting with the replay control panel. The replay processing module is configured to enable conference information that corresponds to a time of the conference session prior to live discussion to be presented if a replay mode is selected.

Examples of the conferencing modalities that may be displayed in live form and in replay form include video audio shared content and a textual transcript of the conference.

In one example implementation a method for performing a conference is provided. Conferencing data associated with a conference session is received. A user interface that includes a replay control panel and an output panel is generated. Information included in the received conferencing data that is associated with one or more displayable conferencing modalities such as video text and or data is displayed in the output panel in live form. Audio of an audio conferencing modality may be played in live form that is based on audio data included in the received conferencing data. A user is enabled to interact with the replay control panel to select a replay mode. Information associated with the first conferencing modality that corresponds to a time of the conference session prior to live is enabled to be displayed if a replay mode is selected.

For instance in one aspect during the live conference a textual transcript of the conference session video associated with participants of the conference session and or shared content of the conference session may be displayed in the first output panel in live form. A second replay control panel and a second output panel may be displayed if a replay mode is selected. The user may be enabled to interact with the first and or second replay control panel to select a replay time. Text of the textual transcript video and or shared content of the conference session corresponding to the selected replay time may be displayed in the second output panel to the user. Additionally or alternatively audio of the conference session corresponding to the selected replay time may be played by an audio output device to the user. Each modality that is being replayed to the user including video text shared content and or audio may be replayed at a normal rate an accelerated rate or a reduced rate of playback.

Computer program products are also described herein that enable live conferencing as well as the pausing of a live conference and or the replaying of recorded information of the live conference even while the conference is still live.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to techniques for recording and replaying aspects of meetings conferences in a live manner including videoconferences. Aspects of the meeting are recorded and during the meeting users are enabled to pause the conference such that the conference is being recorded but is not being played to the user and or to replay the recorded information so that the user can hear and or view past portions of the meeting that they missed and or that they may want to hear see again. When replaying a past portion of a conference the user may also be attending the conference in a live fashion e.g. hearing and or viewing live aspects of the conference . The prior portions of the meeting may be replayed at a normal rate a reduced rate or an accelerated rate. An accelerated replay rate may be used to enable a user to catch up to the live discussion. Replay is enabled for any one or more aspects or modalities of meetings including one or more of audio video shared content a textual transcript of the meeting etc. All the selected modalities may be replayed in synchronism.

Any conference modality may be played solely in a live manner may be played in a live manner and in a replay manner simultaneously or may be played solely in a replay manner. Any combination of conference modalities may be played live and or in replay simultaneously. For instance video presented during a conference may be selected for replay simultaneously with live conference video or either of the live or replay conference video may be displayed. Similarly shared content presented during conference may be selected for replay simultaneously with live shared content or either of the live or replay shared content may be displayed. A textual transcript may be generated e.g. speech to text for the conference in a live manner such that users can read what was previously said what is currently being said etc. during the conference. With regard to audio both past audio of the conference and present audio of the conference may be listened to by a user simultaneously or one of the past or present audio may be muted so that the user can listen to one or the other. Users may be enabled to scroll or otherwise traverse through the recorded audio video shared content and or textual transcript during the conference e.g. using a scrollbar to move backwards and forwards etc. and or may be enabled in further ways to replay a conference.

In embodiments areas of interest of a conference may be indicated during the conference in a manual and or automatic manner. For instance users may be enabled to indicate times during a recorded conference timeline that they desire to return to later for review e.g. may set a checkpoint flag in the textual transcript or elsewhere . Furthermore various user interface cues may be automatically provided to users and indicated in the conference recording to be displayed to the users to enable the users to review corresponding areas of interest. Examples of such areas of interest are speech activities such as speech by particular participants speaker change events and content change events such as changes in presentation slides or other shared content changes in displayed video etc. Still further aspects of the conference may be summarized automatically. For example the speech to text transcript may be analyzed to generate keyword clouds short summaries and or other textual descriptions of the conference. The checkpoints and other indicated areas of interest keyword clouds short summaries etc. may be used to enable users to more easily locate and review specific parts of the conference. For example users may be enabled to select the indicated areas of interest keywords of a keyword cloud words in a generated summary etc. to automatically be transferred to portions of the conference corresponding to the selection for viewing listening.

Example embodiments are described in detail in the following sections subsections. For instance example conferencing systems are described in the next section followed by descriptions of example conferencing devices user interfaces and conferencing replay configurations that enable replay of conference content during live conferences.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in conferencing systems that enable multiple parties to share information in a live manner including one or more of audio e.g. participant speech video e.g. participant images shared content e.g. shared desktop a transcript of the meeting etc. Various types of conferencing systems may be used. For instance shows a block diagram of an example multi party conferencing system . System is an example of a conferencing system that uses a centralized conference server e.g. a Multipoint Control Unit MCU to collect conference content from each of the conference participants and to combine and redistribute the combined content back to the conference participants. Embodiments may alternatively be implemented in non centralized conferencing systems e.g. where each conference participant communicates directly with each other conference participant such as in a H.323 standard decentralized multipoint configuration and in other types of conferencing systems.

System is described as follows for purposes of illustration as an example conferencing system and is not intended to be limiting. As shown in system includes a conference server and a plurality of conference enabled devices e.g. participant devices . One or more users may be present at each of conference enabled devices and may use the corresponding conference enabled device to participate in a multi party conference. For example the users may speak talk into one or more microphones at each conference enabled device to share audio information in the conference call. Images of the users may be captured by cameras at each conference enabled device to share image video information in the conference call. Furthermore data content may be provided by users at each conference enabled device to share content information in the conference call. For instance one or more users may be enabled to share their device desktop with the other users participating in the conference which may include a document open in a word processing or presentation application a web page open in a browser and or any other suitable content.

As shown in each of conference enabled devices may generate one of data streams e.g. streams of data packets . Each data stream includes audio video and or other data generated based on one or more of sound e.g. voice from talkers etc. images shared content etc. captured at the corresponding conference enabled device . Data streams may each include multiple separate data streams corresponding to any audio data image data or other data that may be provided by the corresponding device . Each of data streams is received at conference server . At any particular moment conference server may be configured to select all or a portion of data streams to be transmitted back to each of conference enabled devices as the shared conference audio. For example the data streams that are selected by conference server to be shared may be all of the data streams or may be just those data streams that that are provided from active participants.

Note that conference server may transmit the same shared data stream to all of conference enabled devices or may generate a shared data stream specific to some of conference enabled device . For instance conference server may not include a conference enabled device s own audio video or other data in the shared data stream transmitted to the conference enabled device.

Embodiments may be implemented in devices that enable parties to participate in multi party conferences in a live manner. For example such conferencing enabled devices may enable users to provide to other conference participants and to receive from the other conference participants one or more of audio video shared content a meeting transcript etc. Various types of conferencing devices may be used. For instance shows a block diagram of a conference enabled device that is an example of a conference enabled device according to an embodiment. Conference enabled device is shown in as configured for audio video and data conferencing. In embodiments conference enabled device may be configured for any one or more of audio video and or data conferencing and or alternative types of conferencing e.g. instant messaging text sharing etc. . Examples of conference enabled device include a desktop computer e.g. a personal computer etc. a mobile computing device e.g. a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer e.g. an Apple iPad an HP Slate etc. a netbook etc. a conference phone e.g. a videophone a conference enabled television or other type of conference enabled device.

As shown in conference enabled device includes a processing module a video camera a video encoder a speaker a voice CODEC a microphone a video decoder a display device a network interface and storage . These components of device are further described as follows.

Processing module is coupled to each of video encoder voice CODEC video decoder network interface and storage . Processing module may be individually coupled to these components or one or more of these components may be connected to processing module in a common bus structure. Processing module may be implemented in various ways including in the form of one or more processors e.g. a CPU and or logic components. Processing module may include or be configured to execute program code that enables functionality described herein for enabling device to participate in a conference.

Video camera and video encoder may be present in video conferencing applications. When present video camera captures video images as configured by one or more users of device . For example video camera may capture still or video images of the one or more users at device participating in a conference may capture video images of a white board or other board may capture video images of a lecture and or may capture any other video of interest to a conference. Video camera may be a webcam or other type of video camera that can capture still photographs video data and which can be coupled into device . Video camera generates a video stream that is received by video encoder and that includes one or more images and or video. The video stream may include digital data or analog information that is converted to digital form by an analog to digital A D converter of video encoder . Video encoder encodes e.g. compresses the video data of the received video stream. Video encoder generates an encoded video data stream that is received by processing module .

Microphone and voice CODEC may be present in audio conferencing applications. When present microphone captures audio as configured by one or more users of device . For example microphone may capture voice and or other sounds generated by the one or more users participating in the conference through device . Microphone may be any type of microphone. Microphone generates an audio stream that is received by voice CODEC . The audio stream may include digital data or analog information that is converted to digital form by an analog to digital A D converter of voice CODEC . Voice CODEC encodes e.g. compresses the audio data of the received audio stream. Voice CODEC generates an encoded audio data stream that is received by processing module . Furthermore device e.g. processing module may include a speech to text converter configured to convert speech in the audio stream to text.

Processing module may further enable users of device to provide shared content. For example a user of device may be enabled to operate a program such as a word processing application a presentation application or any other application and or may be enabled to interact with a web page using a browser etc. which may be displayed to the user at display device . Interaction of the user with the content may be captured in the form of shared data that is generated and or received by processing module .

Processing module receives the encoded video audio and or shared data streams. Processing module may buffer the video data audio data and or shared data in storage . Storage may include any suitable type of storage including one or more hard disc drives optical disc drives memory devices e.g. FLASH memory devices etc. Processing module streams the data to network interface .

Network interface interfaces device with a communications network e.g. shown coupling devices and server in . For example in an embodiment network interface is a network interface card NIC for interfacing with an Ethernet network. In embodiments network interface may be configured to enable a wired and or wireless connection with communications network . For example network interface may enable a wireless local area network WLAN link including an IEEE 802.11 WLAN standard link and or other type of wireless communication link. Communications network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other network. Network interface may alternatively enable a phone line link e.g. network may include a phone line or other type of communications link depending on the particular application.

Network interface generates a stream of data packets or other form of data that includes the video audio text and or shared data and transmits the data packet stream to conference server or directly to each other conference enabled device depending on the conferencing configuration over network as data stream . Furthermore network interface receives a stream of data packets from conference server or from each other conference enabled device over network that includes the audio video text and or shared data from other devices of the conference. Network interface provides the received data stream to processing module .

Processing module may extract the audio video and or shared data from the received data stream and optionally processes the extracted data. In an embodiment processing module includes a digital signal processor DSP . When present the DSP may apply special effects to the received audio data e.g. an equalization function video data e.g. background extraction and or substitution etc. and or shared data e.g. resolving conflicting commands merging concurrent commands etc. . Processing module may buffer the received data in storage . Processing module provides the video data to video decoder and the audio data to voice CODEC . Any received text and or shared data may be displayed by processing module at display device .

Video decoder receives and decodes e.g. decompresses the video data and optionally the received shared data . Video decoder generates a video data stream analog or digital which is received by display device . Display device displays images corresponding to the received video data. For example display device may display multiple panels of video each panel corresponding to a different participant of the conference. Display device may include any type of display mechanism including a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a flat panel monitor e.g. an LCD liquid crystal display panel or other display mechanism.

Voice CODEC performs bit stream decoding of the received audio data if needed and converts the decoded data to an analog signal. Speaker receives the analog signal and outputs corresponding sound e.g. voice . For example speaker may output sound that is a combination of the voices of the participants of the conference. The combination of voices may or may not include the voice s of the user s of device depending on the particular implementation.

Video encoder voice CODEC and video decoder may be implemented in hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof. Video encoder voice CODEC and video decoder may be configured to perform encoding and or decoding of data according to proprietary and or conventional audio and or video data compression decompression encoding decoding standards such as those mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known. In an embodiment video encoder and video decoder may be combined in a video CODEC.

Thus in embodiments device may be used to capture video audio audio text and or other data to contribute to a conference and to receive and display video text and or shared content and or to receive and play audio related to the conference. Device is described herein for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. Embodiments may be implemented in further types of conferencing enabled devices.

Conferencing applications that enable remotely located participants to interact in a conference may be configured in various ways and may provide various types of interfaces for the conference participants to interact with each other. For instance shows a block diagram of an example user interface window that may be generated e.g. by a conferencing application for display by a conference enabled device. Window displays features of a live conference as the conference is conducted between conference participants. Window may be displayed concurrently with audio of the conference being played by an audio output device e.g. a loudspeaker associated with the conference enabled device.

In the example of window includes first and second video display regions and and a shared content display region . Video images of the remote conference participants transmitted from corresponding remote conference enabled devices are displayed in first and second video display regions and respectively. Shared content display region displays content being shared by a conference participant with the other conference participants. Any user participating in the conference may be enabled to take control of the content being shared in shared content display region . Although not shown in window may provide further conference related features including displaying a list of conference participants a status of each participant a control interface for entering and or exiting the conference etc. Window does not enable a user to replay portions of a live conference however.

As shown in window includes a plurality of modality display regions and a replay control interface region . Modality display regions each display aspects of a corresponding modality supported by the live conference associated with window . Examples of modalities include a video modality a shared content modality and a textual transcript modality. Further or alternative modalities may be supported by window . Any number of one or more modality display regions may be present in window and each displays aspects of a corresponding modality.

Replay control interface region is a user interface that enables replay of a portion or entirety of a conference to a user while the conference is live. For instance replay control interface region may enable the user to start playing the conference from the beginning or from a particular point of time during the conference. Furthermore replay control interface region may enable the user to replay the conference at a normal e.g. recorded rate a slower rate or a faster rate. Any combination of modalities e.g. audio video shared content textual transcript etc. may be replayed simultaneously and synchronized at the normal slower or faster rate. Still further replay control interface region may enable the user to select which of the modalities of the conference are to be replayed.

Replay control interface region may include any number and combination of user interface elements to enable replay of a live conference. Examples of such user interface elements include graphical icons visual indicators menus radio buttons check boxes sliders etc. In embodiments by interacting with replay control interface region one or more windows may be invoked and displayed that display one or more modalities of the conference in replay form and that may provide further replay control user interface elements.

Modality display regions and replay control interface region may have any form in window including having the form of panels widgets etc. Furthermore in embodiments modality display regions and replay control interface region may be included in a single window e.g. window or may be included in multiple windows provided by a display device.

Conference replay functionality may be implemented in conference servers and or in conference enabled participant devices in various ways. For instance shows a block diagram of a conference replay system according to an example embodiment. As shown in conference replay system includes storage a replay processing module a replay request interface and a render module . Portions of system may be implemented in a conference server or in participating conference enabled devices depending on the particular embodiment. System is described as follows.

As shown in storage receives an audio data stream a video data stream and a shared content data stream and may receive transcript data . In embodiments storage may receive any one or more of audio data stream video data stream and shared content data stream depending on the particular types of data provided in the particular conference. Storage may be located in a conference server e.g. conference server of or in a conference enabled device. When located in a conference server storage may receive audio data stream video data stream and or shared content data stream from each participating conference enabled device. When located in a conference enabled device storage may receive audio data stream video data stream and or shared content data stream containing combined data output from the conference server when present or may receive an audio data stream a video data stream and or a shared content data stream from each participating conference enabled device. Storage stores the data received in each of audio data stream video data stream and shared content data stream

A user is shown in that is a user of a conference enabled device participating in the conference. User may decide to replay a portion of the conference that user may have missed or may want to re play. In such case user may interact with replay request interface to request that a portion of the conference be replayed. For instance user may indicate a start time for replay of the conference. As shown in replay request interface generates a replay request . Replay request indicates the request by user for replay of a portion of the conference. Replay request may indicate a replay mode e.g. which available content of the conference is to be replayed a time of the conference at which replay is to begin and or other information.

Replay processing module may be located in a conference server e.g. conference server of or in a conference enabled device. Replay processing module receives replay request . Replay processing module determines the point of time at which replay of the conference is to begin based on replay request and retrieves corresponding replay conferencing data from storage . For example replay conferencing data may be streamed from storage to replay processing module that starts at the determined begin time and continues to be streamed e.g. until user indicates that replay is complete or until live conference time is reached . Replay conferencing data may include one or more conference modalities including audio data video data shared content data textual transcript data etc. Replay processing module may process replay conferencing data and generates processed replay conferencing data . For example replay processing module may increase a rate at which replay conferencing data e.g. may remove video frames etc. is played may decrease a rate at which replay conferencing data may be played or may otherwise process replay conferencing data to generate processed replay conferencing data .

Render module receives processed replay conferencing data and displays plays processed replay conferencing data . User receives e.g. sees and or hears the displayed played information. For example render module may include a graphical rendering module to render video shared content a textual transcript and or other graphical data of processed replay conferencing data to be displayed to user by a display device. Render module may alternatively or additionally include an audio rendering module to render audio of processed replay conferencing data to be broadcast to user by an audio output device.

Storage may include one or more of any type of storage mechanism e.g. storage of including a magnetic disc e.g. in a hard disk drive an optical disc e.g. in an optical disk drive a magnetic tape e.g. in a tape drive a memory device such as a RAM device a ROM device etc. and or any other suitable type of storage medium. Replay processing module may be implemented in any suitable manner such as being implemented in processing module of e.g. when included in a conferencing enabled device . Replay request interface and render module may each be implemented in any manner.

System of may operate in various ways and may be configured in various ways to enable replay during live conferences. For instance shows a flowchart providing example steps for multi party conferencing with selective replay according to an example embodiment. is described with respect to for illustrative purposes. shows a block diagram of a conference enabled device according to an example embodiment. The example of device is shown in as being configured to process two conferencing modalities but in embodiments may be modified to process any number of one or more modalities and any combination of modalities as would be understood to persons skilled in the relevant art s from the teachings herein. As shown in device includes a network interface a live conference processing module storage a replay processing module a user interface generator and a user interface . Other structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Note that the steps shown in do not necessarily need to be performed in the order shown. Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step conferencing data associated with a conference session is received. For instance as shown in a conferencing data stream may be received by network interface from a network e.g. network of . Conferencing data stream may be received from a conference server if present or may include data streams received directly from other participating conference devices. Conferencing data stream may include one or more data streams associated with various conference modalities such as audio data video data shared content data textual transcript data etc. For instance in the example of data associated with a first conferencing modality e.g. one of video data shared content data textual transcript data etc. and audio data are included in conferencing data stream . In other embodiments other data modalities may be received in conferencing data stream . Network interface may be configured to extract the data from conferencing data stream . As shown in network interface outputs audio data and first modality data .

In step a user interface is generated that includes a replay control panel and an output panel. For example as shown in user interface generator may be configured to generate a user interface for device . Users may interact with user interface to participate in a conference. The generated user interface may have any form and arrangement and may support any number of conference modalities. For instance shows a block diagram of a user interface window that may be generated by user interface generator for display by device e.g. by display device of according to an example embodiment. Window is an example window that may be included in user interface . Window displays features of a live conference as the conference is conducted between conference participants. Window may be displayed concurrently with audio of the conference being played by an audio output device associated with device e.g. audio output system .

In the example of window includes first third output panels and which are associated with corresponding conference modalities and a replay control panel that enables conference replay while a conference is live. Panels and are described in terms of graphical panels for purposes of illustration but may have any suitable form e.g. including or not including boundary lines etc. . Furthermore although panel is shown in an upper location panel is shown in a left side location panel is shown in a right side location and panel is shown in a lower location of window in panels and may be arranged in window in any manner or pattern. Furthermore panels and may have any relative sizes in window .

In the example of first output panel is a video output panel that displays one or more video images received from other participating conference devices. In the example of video display regions are included in first output panel . Live video feeds transmitted from remote conference devices may be displayed in video display regions . For example images of the remote conference participants white boards etc. may be displayed in video display regions . Any number of video display regions may be present in first output panel corresponding to remote participants.

In the current example second output panel is a shared content output panel that displays content e.g. a desktop view etc. being shared by a conference participant with the other conference participants. Any user participating in the conference may be enabled to take control of shared content in second output panel .

Furthermore in the current example third output panel is a transcript panel that displays a textual transcript of the current live conference. For example textual transcript may have the form of a text box where text e.g. generated from speech of the conference is displayed. Text of textual transcript may automatically scroll so that the most recent text is displayed in third output panel . To generate the text a speech to text conversion for the whole conference may be performed in device e.g. by speech to text converter of or in a conference server or may be performed at each participating conference device for the speech received locally at the microphone of the corresponding participating conference device. Thus device may perform speech to text conversion for speech received by a microphone of device . When transcription of locally received speech is performed at each participating conference device the transcribed text may be combined e.g. interleaved in order in the conference server when present or in device to form textual transcription . Thus device may interleave transcribed text received from each participant device with locally transcribed text. As such a user of device and users of other participating conference devices can view an interleaved transcription of both the local and remote participants that resembles a conversation flow similar to an instant messaging conversation. Each participant s text may be preceded with the participant s user name may be shown in a different color than the text of the other participants and or may be highlighted in another fashion to distinguish the participants e.g. based on their source conference devices etc. .

Although not shown in window may provide further conference related features including displaying a list of conference participants a status of each participant a control interface for entering and or exiting the conference etc. Furthermore fewer additional and or alternative panels may be present in window corresponding to fewer additional and or alternative conference modalities depending on the particular embodiment.

Referring back to in step information included in the received conferencing data that is associated with a first conferencing modality is displayed in the output panel in a live manner. For example referring to live conferencing processing module is configured to process data of one or more conference modalities for live presentation during a conference. In the example of live conference processing module includes a modality processing module and an audio processing module . As such live conference processing module is configured to enable audio and another conference modality e.g. video shared content a textual transcript etc. to be provided to a user of device during a conference. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or alternative modules may be present in live conference processing module corresponding to fewer additional and or alternative conference modalities.

As shown in modality processing module receives first modality data . Modality processing module processes first modality data according to the particular configuration of modality processing module as described further below e.g. video processing interfacing shared content processing interfacing textual transcript processing interfacing etc. . For example modality processing module may perform one or more of video decoding e.g. similar to video decoder video image optimization etc. As shown in modality processing module generates processed first modality data . User interface generator receives processed first modality data and causes information e.g. video shared content a textual transcript etc. in processed first modality data to be displayed in the first output panel of user interface in a live manner. In other words the video shared content textual transcript and or other information of processed first modality data is displayed in the first output panel during the live conference such that a user of device can view the displayed information and interact with other participants in the conference in a live manner with little or no delay from live action.

For instance referring to user interface generator may display video information included in processed first modality data in an output panel of user interface similar to first panel . If processed first modality data includes shared content data user interface generator may display shared content information in an output panel of user interface similar to second panel . If processed first modality data includes textual transcript data user interface generator may display textual transcript information in an output panel of user interface similar to third panel .

As shown in storage may also receive processed first modality data . Storage is an example of storage shown in . Storage may store processed first modality data for subsequent access during conference replay as described further below.

Referring back to in step audio based on audio data included in the received conferencing data is played in live form. As described above in the example of live conference processing module includes audio processing module . Audio processing module receives audio data . Audio processing module processes audio data and generates processed audio data . Audio processing module may process audio data in any manner to generate processed audio data including providing gain an equalization function filtering decoding etc. Audio output system receives processed audio data and plays corresponding audio. Audio output system may include a digital to analog D A converter to convert digital processed audio data to analog form or a D A converter may be included in audio processing module or elsewhere in device to perform the conversion. Furthermore audio output system may include one or more speakers e.g. a headset one or more free standing or mounted loudspeakers etc. configured to broadcast audio. Audio corresponding to processed audio data is played by audio output system during the live conference such that a user of device can hear the audio e.g. speech of other participants etc. and interact with other participants in the conference in a live manner with little or no delay from live action. In an embodiment audio may be played in a spatialized manner as described in further detail below.

As shown in storage may also receive processed audio data . Storage may store processed audio data for subsequent access during conference replay as described further below.

In step a user is enabled to interact with the replay control panel to select a replay mode. For instance referring to a user of device may interact with the replay control panel displayed by user interface to select a replay mode for content of a live conference. Referring to replay control panel is an example of the replay control panel displayed in user interface and is an example of replay control interface region shown in . Replay control panel enables the user of device to replay of a portion or entirety of a conference to the user while the conference is live. As shown in replay control panel may include one or more user interface elements that enable conference replay. User interface element s may be configured to enable the user to start replay of a conference from the beginning or another point of time during the conference to replay the conference at a normal e.g. recorded rate a slower rate or a faster rate and or to select one or more modalities of the conference for replay. By interacting with user interface element s one or more windows and or panels may be invoked and displayed by user interface that enable one or more modalities of the live conference to be displayed in replay form. User interface element s may have any form mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known to enable conference replay.

For instance shows a view of a replay control panel according to an example embodiment. Replay control panel is an example of replay control panel shown in and is provided for purposes of illustration. As shown in replay control panel includes a plurality of user interface elements including a first button a second button a third button a conference progress timeline and a time selection slider . Conference progress timeline indicates a length of time that a conference has currently progressed in live form. In the example of conference progress timeline indicates that the conference has been active for 54 minutes and this length of time indication is configured to increase with time as the conference progresses. The user may interact with slider to select a point in time during the conference. As shown in slider may be slid along a rail that is parallel to timeline e.g. by click and drag by finger touch and drag on a touch screen etc. . The user may slide slider along rail to a particular point of time during the conference as indicated by timeline to catch up to the live conference the user may slide slider all the way to the right end of rail . In the example of slider is adjacent to time 0 and thus the beginning of the conference is currently selected. As shown in the selected time may be indicated in replay control panel by a time value indication e.g. Selected Time 0 00 .

In an embodiment button e.g. labeled set checkpoint may be present to enable a user to set one or more checkpoints during the live conference. Such checkpoints may be set by the user for any reason including to indicate time points during the live conference that the user is interrupted and or may otherwise want to replay. To set a checkpoint the user may slide slider to a selected point of time and may select button e.g. by mouse click touch screen interaction keyboard interaction etc. to cause a checkpoint flag to be indicated at the time selected by slider . If slider is all the way at the right end of rail the user may select button to set a checkpoint flag at the current live conference time. Examples of a checkpoint flag include the text checkpoint a checkpoint icon e.g. a flag icon and or other checkpoint symbol which may be indicated on timeline in a textual transcript etc. As shown in if a user sets a checkpoint flag using user interface a checkpoint indication is generated by user interface . Checkpoint indication is provided through user interface generator to replay processing module . Responsive to checkpoint indication replay processing module may store an indication of a checkpoint flag being applied to a particular time point of the live conference. In an embodiment when a user selects button a checkpoint flag entry e.g. showing the text checkpoint may be entered into the textual transcript at the time indicated by slider .

Thus checkpoint flags may be applied to content of a live conference in a manual fashion e.g. by a user . In another embodiment checkpoint flags and other types of user cues may be inserted into the textual transcript that are automatically generated. Such user cues may be generated to enable the users to locate and review areas of interest of a conference. A content data analyzer may be included in replay processing module live conferencing processing module or elsewhere in device to analyze received conferencing data for such areas of interest. For example as shown in device includes a conference data analyzer . Conference data analyzer is configured to receive stored conferencing data from storage or any one or more of data and to analyze conferencing data for areas of interest. Conference data analyzer generates areas of interest indications which may be stored in storage in association with conferencing data to indicate the locations of determined areas of interest in the stored conferencing data. Indications may subsequently be displayed in video audio shared content and or a textual transcript of the conference to highlight the areas of interest to users. Examples of such areas of interest that may be detected and highlighted are speech activities such as speech by particular participants change events such as changes in presentation slides or other shared content speaker change events etc. For instance processed audio data in storage may be analyzed by conference data analyzer to determine speech activities such as time points where a particular speaker begins speaking or stops speaking etc. Such a determination may be made by analyzing recorded speech amplitude in the received conference data and associating changes in such amplitude with particular participants determined according to speech recognition techniques and or by identifying the source conferencing device. Processed first modality data may be analyzed by conference data analyzer to determine changes in video or shared content e.g. determining abrupt changes in displayed image color and or intensity to show changes in video shared content etc. . Indications may be highlighted by being displayed as textual indications e.g. in textual transcript output video output shared content as audio sound cues in output audio and or as video cues in output video and or shared content .

As described above a user of device may interact with replay control panel to initiate conference replay. For instance the user may select one of buttons and to select a replay mode for the conference corresponding to the time selected by slider . By selecting button which is labeled replay with audio a full conference replay mode may be initiated that includes audio replay as well as replay of any other available conference modalities. By selecting button which is labeled replay without audio a partial conference replay mode may be initiated that includes replay of any available conference modalities except for audio. In the replay without audio mode the audio associated with the conference replay is muted and thus the user may refer to the textual transcript if present for words spoken during the conference replay.

Note that additional and or alternative buttons than shown in may be present in replay control panel to enable further and or alternative conference replay modes. Such buttons may be configured to enable replay of any one or more available conference modalities. For example a transcript only button may be present that may be selected to enter a transcript only replay mode. In the transcript only replay mode users may be enabled to scroll through the textual transcript and read what was spoken in the conference during their absence but are not presented with replays of other conference modalities. A last checkpoint button may be provided to automatically scroll through the textual transcript to the location of a closest previously set checkpoint. Automatic scrolling of the textual transcript may be disabled after a user selects the last checkpoint button or when they begin scrolling the transcript manually. Automatic scrolling of the transcript can be re enabled by checking an auto scroll checkbox. Furthermore a pause button may be present to enable a user to pause the conference such that the user may be enabled to perform some other task while the conference continues to be recorded but is not played to the user. The user may be provided with a resume button such that the user is enabled to resume the conference at the point in time the pause button was selected. The user may also be enabled to select another time of the paused conference to begin play replay.

Referring back to in step information associated with the first conferencing modality that corresponds to a time of the conference session prior to live is enabled to be displayed if a replay mode is selected. As shown in if a user selects a replay mode using user interface a conference replay request is generated at user interface . Conference replay request is provided through user interface generator to replay processing module . Responsive to conference replay request replay processing module may initiate conference replay from an indicated time point e.g. indicated by slider according to the particular replay mode.

Conference replay may be enabled in various ways by replay processing module . For instance shows a flowchart providing example steps for enabling conference replay according to an example embodiment. Flowchart may be performed during step of flowchart for example. Other structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a second replay control panel and a second output panel are displayed if a replay mode is selected. For example referring to if a replay mode is selected by a user interacting with user interface e.g. according to step a second replay control panel and a second output panel may be displayed. The second replay control panel may enable the user to control conference replay aspects and the second output panel may display replay of a conference modality. Any number of additional output panels corresponding to any one or more of replayed video textual transcripts shared content etc. may be displayed if a replay mode is selected.

For instance shows a block diagram of a second user interface window configured to enable a user to perform conference replay according to an example embodiment. Window is an example window that may be included in user interface . For instance window and window may be simultaneously displayed by a common display system such that a user can view window to interact with the conference in live form and can view window to replay modalities of the conference e.g. can switch their view from window to window and vice versa as desired . Window is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. Window may have other configurations as would be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s from the teachings herein.

In the example of window includes first third replay output panels and which are associated with corresponding conference modalities and a second replay control panel that enables a user to control aspects of conference replay. Panels and are described in terms of graphical panels for purposes of illustration but may have any suitable form e.g. including or not including boundary lines etc. . Furthermore although panel is shown in an upper location panel is shown in a left side location panel is shown in a right side location and panel is shown in a lower location of window in panels and may be arranged in window in any manner or pattern. Furthermore panels and may have any relative sizes in window .

In step the user is enabled to interact with the second replay control panel to select a replay time. As described above a user may be enabled to select a replay time by interacting with replay control panel shown in . For instance referring to the user may select a replay time using slider and then may invoke conference replay e.g. by selecting one of buttons and . Alternatively or additionally the user may be able select or modify a replay time by interacting with the second replay control panel invoked in step .

For instance referring to replay control panel is an example of the second replay control panel that may be invoked by selecting a conference replay mode. The user may interact with replay control panel to select and or modify a replay time. As shown in replay control panel may include one or more user interface elements that control conference replay. For instance user interface element s may be configured to enable the user to start or change conference replay to a particular point of time during the conference to replay the conference at a normal e.g. recorded rate a slower rate or a faster rate and or to select one or more modalities of the conference for replay. Replay control panel may include any number and combination of user interface elements mentioned elsewhere herein or otherwise known to configure conference replay.

Play speed radio button enables a user to select a replay rate for the modalities of the conference being replayed. For example in play speed radio button provides a plurality of predetermined replay rates indicated as Normal Fast and Faster. The user may select one of the provided replay rates. If the normal replay rate is selected conference modalities are replayed at normal e.g. real world rates. If the fast replay rate is selected conference modalities are replayed at a greater than normal e.g. e.g. by a predetermined factor greater than 1.0 . If the faster replay rate is selected conference modalities are replayed at a rate faster than the fast replay rate. In the example of the Fast replay rate is shown selected.

Current settings indicator indicates various current setting for conference replay. In the example of current setting indicator indicates a currently selected time by slider as Selected Time 0 00 a currently selected play speed as Play Speed 1.30 e.g. a rate of 1.3 times normal speed and a current play time as Currently Playing 7 30 e.g. 7 minutes and 30 seconds from the beginning of the conference .

Note that the user interface elements shown in and are provided for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting. Other types of user interface elements may alternatively be present. For instance timeline and rail may be combined into a single timeline rail in an embodiment. Furthermore in other embodiments play speed may be selected using a slider bar or other user interface element rather than using radio button .

In step the information corresponding to the selected replay time is displayed in the second output panel. For example referring to information of the conference corresponding to the selected replay time e.g. selected in step may be displayed in the second output panel provided by user interface . Replay processing module is configured to retrieve and optionally process data of one or more conference modalities for replay. In the example of replay processing module includes a modality replay module and an audio replay module . As such replay processing module is configured to enable audio and another conference modality e.g. video shared content a textual transcript etc. to be replayed to a user of device . In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or alternative modules may be present in replay processing module corresponding to fewer additional and or alternative conference modalities.

As shown in modality replay module retrieves first modality replay data from storage beginning at the selected replay time. First modality replay data is data of the modality to be replayed corresponding to the selected replay time. Modality replay module optionally processes first modality replay data according to the particular configuration of modality replay module as described further below e.g. video processing interfacing shared content processing interfacing textual transcript processing interfacing etc. . Modality replay module outputs generates processed first modality replay data . User interface generator receives processed first modality replay data and causes information e.g. video shared content a textual transcript etc. in processed first modality replay data to be displayed in the corresponding replay output panel of user interface . In other words the video shared content textual transcript and or other information of processed first modality replay data is displayed in the replay output panel so that a user of device can view replayed conference information while the conference is live and being provided to the user in live form in one or more other output panels e.g. panels of window of .

As described above includes example replay output panels corresponding to various example conference modalities. For instance first replay output panel of window in is a video replay output panel corresponding to video output panel of that displays replay of one or more video images received from other participating conference devices. For instance show block diagrams of modality processing module and modality replay module according to an example video modality embodiment. As shown in modality processing module includes a video interface . Video interface is configured to interface video data received in conferencing data stream e.g. video data of first modality data with user interface generator to be displayed in user interface in live form. As shown in modality replay module includes a video retriever . Video retriever is configured to retrieve video data received in conferencing data stream and stored in storage that corresponds to the selected replay start time and to provide the retrieved video data to user interface generator in processed first modality replay data to be replayed in user interface .

Thus in an embodiment while first output panel of displays live video associated with the conference replay output panel of may display conference video replayed from a time selected in replay control panel . In the example of video display regions are included in first replay output panel . Thus replays of the video feeds transmitted from remote conference devices may be displayed in video display regions 

In the current example second replay output panel of window is a shared content replay output panel that displays replayed shared content e.g. a desktop view etc. . Second replay output panel corresponds to second output panel of which displays shared content in a live manner. For instance show block diagrams of modality processing module and modality replay module according to an example shared content modality embodiment. As shown in modality processing module includes a shared content interface . Shared content interface is configured to interface shared data received in conferencing data stream e.g. shared content data of first modality data with user interface generator to be displayed in user interface in a live manner. As shown in modality replay module includes a shared content retriever . Shared content retriever is configured to retrieve shared data received in conferencing data stream and stored in storage that corresponds to the selected replay start time and to provide the retrieved shared content data to user interface generator in processed first modality replay data to be replayed in user interface .

Thus in an embodiment while second output panel of displays live shared content associated with the conference replay output panel of may display conference shared content replayed from a time selected in replay control panel .

In the current example third replay output panel of window is a transcript panel that displays a textual transcript of the current conference in replay form. Third replay output panel corresponds to third output panel of which displays textual transcript in a live manner. For instance show block diagrams of modality processing module and modality replay module according to an example textual transcript modality embodiment. As shown in modality processing module includes a textual transcript interface . Textual transcript interface is configured to interface textual transcript data received in conferencing data stream e.g. a textual transcript of first modality data or generated in device with user interface generator to be displayed in user interface in a live manner. As shown in modality replay module includes a textual transcript retriever . Textual transcript retriever is configured to retrieve textual transcript data in storage that corresponds to the selected replay start time and to provide the retrieved textual transcript data to user interface generator in processed first modality replay data to be replayed in user interface .

Thus in an embodiment while third output panel of displays a live textual transcript associated with the conference replay output panel of may display a textual transcript of the conference replayed from a time selected in replay control panel .

In an embodiment audio associated with a conference session corresponding to the selected replay time may be replayed. For example as shown in audio replay module retrieves replay audio data stored in storage as processed audio data beginning at the selected replay time. Audio replay module optionally processes replay audio data e.g. decoding equalization filtering amplifying etc. . Furthermore audio replay module may be configured to modify replay audio data to modify a replay rate of audio data e.g. increase the replay rate from normal decrease the replay rate from normal etc. according to user input e.g. to a user interface as described elsewhere herein . For instance to solve audio pitch and understandability issues that arise when audio is played back at an accelerated rate audio replay module may implement audio speed up technology that employs pitch correction and silence adjustment techniques to make sure that replayed audio sounds meaningful even when played at a faster rate. Audio replay module outputs generates processed replay audio data . Audio output system receives processed replay audio data and plays corresponding audio. In other words the audio of processed replay audio data is played by audio output system so that a user of device can hear replayed conference audio while the conference is live. Live conference audio may simultaneously be provided to the user by audio output system which receives processed audio data .

In one embodiment the live conference audio may optionally be muted while the replay conference audio is being played by audio output system . In another embodiment the replay conference audio may be muted while live conference audio is being played by audio output system . In another embodiment the live conference audio and replay conference audio may be played by audio output system simultaneously. For example in one embodiment the live conference audio and replay conference audio may be played simultaneously from the same one or more speakers of audio output system . Alternatively the live conference audio and replay conference audio may be played through different speakers of audio output system or may be played through the same set of speakers but in a spatialized manner. In this manner the user may be better enabled to distinguish the live conference audio from the replay conference audio.

For instance shows a portion of device according to an example embodiment. As shown in device may include an audio spatialization module used to spatialize the live conference audio and the replay conference audio. For example as shown in audio spatialization module receives processed audio data e.g. live audio and processed replay audio data e.g. replay audio . Audio spatialization module is configured to perform techniques of audio spatialization to provide the live conference audio and replay conference audio with different audio angles of arrival so that the user may be enabled to distinguish the live conference audio from the replay conference audio. Such techniques of audio spatialization that may be used by audio spatialization module are known to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

As shown in audio spatialization module generates first and second output audio signals and which are respectively received by a first audio output device and a second audio output device of audio output system . In an embodiment first and second output audio signals and respectively include the live conference audio and the replay conference audio. In such an embodiment first audio output device broadcasts live conference audio and second audio output device broadcasts replay conference audio. In another embodiment first and second output audio signals and each contain both of live conference audio and replay conference audio with their respective amplitudes and or phases modified to cause the live conference audio and replay conference audio to be perceived as being received from predetermined desired angles of arrival. In further embodiments audio output system may include further audio output devices to enable further audio spatialization. First and second audio output devices and may be any type of audio output device including a headphone speaker pair e.g. right and left ear speakers free standing loudspeakers mounted loudspeakers etc.

In an embodiment live conference processing module or replay processing module may be configured to generate summary information associated with a live conference. For example as shown in replay processing module or live conference processing module may include a conference summary generator . Conference summary generator is configured to generate a concise description of the live conference as the conference is being performed. For example conference summary generator may be configured to receive a textual transcript of the conference e.g. textual transcript from storage or elsewhere and to generate a concise description of the textual transcript in one or more forms such as a keyword cloud e.g. by searching for frequently used words or a relatively short or any other length summary of the conference session. The generated concise description may be displayed to the user in user interface and the user may interact with the concise description to navigate quickly within the textual transcript. For instance the user may be enabled to select a keyword in the keyword cloud or short summary to cause textual transcript to scroll to the next instance of the keyword in textual transcript . Keywords of the keyword cloud may be indicated in the keyword cloud with different weights e.g. text size text color etc. to indicate relative importance e.g. frequency of the keywords.

For instance the generated concise description such as the keyword cloud the text summary and or an event change index e.g. that tracks speaker change events content change events etc. may be used to as a way to control where in the conference to start replay and or may be used as an indicator of a topic and or the point in time at which the live meeting is taking place and of a topic and or the point in time is at which the conference is currently being replayed. For instance the keyword cloud may highlight a first word in a first manner e.g. the word is bolded is changed to a selected first color etc. that represents indicates a topic currently being discussed in the live meeting and may highlight a second word e.g. the word is italicized is changed to a selected second color etc. that represents indicates a topic being discussed in the portion of the conference being replayed.

In an embodiment a user status may be displayed by user interface for each user of the conference e.g. except for the local user optionally so that each user can determine the statuses of the other users. When the user is live with the conference not pausing or replaying the conference the user s status may be indicated as active or as some other suitable indication. If a user pauses a conference as described above the user s status may be indicated as in a pause mode. If the user is replaying a conference the user s status may be indicated as in a replay mode. A user status may be indicated in any manner including being shown as an icon a textual description a color etc. in association with an identifier e.g. a name for the user. In an embodiment a user may not desire other users to know the user s status e.g. does not want other users to know the user is in pause or replay mode . In such case a user may be enabled to disable status mode changes for the user. In an embodiment if the user does not desire other users to know that the user is not actively participating in the conference video of the user may be frozen or repeated e.g. looped to cause it to appear at other participating devices in the conference that the user is actively participating.

Replay processing module replay request interface render module live conference processing module replay processing module user interface generator modality processing module audio processing module modality replay module audio replay module conference data analyzer video interface video retriever shared content interface shared content retriever textual transcript interface textual transcript retriever audio interface audio retriever audio spatialization module and conference summary generator may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example replay processing module replay request interface render module live conference processing module replay processing module user interface generator modality processing module audio processing module modality replay module audio replay module conference data analyzer video interface video retriever shared content interface shared content retriever textual transcript interface textual transcript retriever audio interface audio retriever audio spatialization module and or conference summary generator may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors. Alternatively replay processing module replay request interface render module live conference processing module replay processing module user interface generator modality processing module audio processing module modality replay module audio replay module video interface video retriever shared content interface shared content retriever textual transcript interface textual transcript retriever audio interface audio retriever audio spatialization module and or conference summary generator may be implemented as hardware logic electrical circuitry.

As shown in computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processing unit . Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. System memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in ROM .

Computer also has one or more of the following drives a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media. Hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer. Although a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk are described other types of computer readable media can be used to store data such as flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM. These programs include an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . Application programs or program modules may include for example computer program logic for implementing replay processing module replay request interface render module live conference processing module replay processing module user interface generator modality processing module audio processing module modality replay module audio replay module conference data analyzer video interface video retriever shared content interface shared content retriever textual transcript interface textual transcript retriever audio interface audio retriever audio spatialization module conference summary generator flowchart and or flowchart including any step of flowcharts and .

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display device is also connected to bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor computer may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

Computer is connected to a network e.g. the Internet through an adaptor or network interface a modem or other means for establishing communications over the network. Modem which may be internal or external is connected to bus via serial port interface .

As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as the hard disk associated with hard disk drive removable magnetic disk removable optical disk as well as other media such as flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like.

As noted above computer programs and modules including application programs and other program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM. Such computer programs may also be received via network interface or serial port interface . Such computer programs when executed or loaded by an application enable computer to implement features of embodiments of the present invention discussed herein. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer .

Embodiments of the invention are also directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing devices causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments may employ any computer useable or computer readable medium known now or in the future. Examples of computer readable mediums include but are not limited to storage devices such as RAM hard drives floppy disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices MEMs nanotechnology based storage devices and the like.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

