---

title: Filtered smoking article inspection system, and associated method
abstract: An inspection system and associated method are provided for inspecting a smoking article having a smokable rod and a filter element serially secured together by a tipping material circumscribing a longitudinal periphery of the filter element and a portion of a longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod adjacent to the filter element. A transport device is configured to transport individual as-formed smoking articles from a first to a second position such that the tipping material associated with each smoking article is accessible at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article. An inspection device is configured to optically inspect each smoking article, at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material, as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions, and to automatically determine from the optical inspection whether the inspected smoking article is defective.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08760508&OS=08760508&RS=08760508
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 08760508
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100113
---
The present disclosure relates to smoking articles such as filtered cigarettes and more particularly to a filtered smoking article inspection system and associated method.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz PCT Publication No. WO 2006 064371 to Banerjea and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0056600 to Coleman III et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper in order to provide a so called filtered cigarette. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting the lighting end terminus thereof opposite the filter element and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter element or mouth end terminus of the cigarette.

More particularly the filter element may be attached to the tobacco rod using tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping paper that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap circumscribing the filter tow and the outer surface of the wrapping material paper wrapper surrounding the smokable material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another. The adhesive may also function to secure the overlapping ends of the tipping material circumscribing the filter element and tobacco rod.

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution provisions such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap. The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. Otherwise so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution provisions to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette.

The dimensions of a representative filtered cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and can have diameters of about 7.5 mm e.g. circumferences of about 20 mm to about 27 mm often about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm and can have total lengths of about 70 mm to about 120 mm often about 80 mm to about 100 mm. The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have total lengths of about 15 mm to about 40 mm often about 20 mm to about 35 mm. For a typical dual segment filter element the downstream or mouth end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm and the upstream or tobacco rod end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm.

However in the manufacture of filtered smoking articles such as filtered cigarettes the procedure for securing the filter element to the tobacco rod during the tipping process or for forming the tobacco rod itself i.e. wrapping a smokable material with an outer circumscribing layer of a wrapping material may result in certain undesirable defects in the smoking article formed thereby. For example the tipping material may be misaligned with respect to the smoking article i.e. forming a spiral instead of a cylinder when wrapped about the smoking article the wrapping material may be misaligned with respect to the smokable material the tipping material or the wrapping material may be wrinkled the tipping material or the wrapping material may be visibly contaminated i.e. spots or other undesirable discolorations or stains the wrong tipping material may be used i.e. the actual tipping material may not correspond to the specified material the wrong wrapping material may be used multiple units of the tipping material may be applied to the smoking article i.e. units of the tipping paper in excess of the specified amount may get stuck together and applied about the smoking article multiple units of the wrapping material may be applied to the smokable material the adhesive securing the tipping material may not be evenly applied about the smoking article or the tipping material may be inconsistently adhered to the smoking article or the overlapping ends of the tipping paper may not be securely adhered together the overlapping ends of the wrapping material may not be securely adhered together thus exposing the smokable material the tipping material may be rolled over itself along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod i.e. forming a raised collar about the smoking article the tipping material may not completely secure the tobacco rod to the filter element i.e. the tobacco rod may not be secured to and may thus easily separate from the filter element the tipping material may not extend at least along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod as specified the wrapping material may have been punctured i.e. torn pulled or had a hole formed therein for instance by stem portions in the tobacco material comprising the smokable material to expose the smokable material and excess adhesive securing one of the tipping material about the smoking article and the wrapping material about the smokable material may be exposed.

It follows that due to the high speed nature of the cigarette manufacturing process many of the defects that may occur during the tipping process may not be readily apparent or otherwise detected before the product is packaged for sale. As such it may often be the smoker end user opening the pack of cigarettes discovering any defects in individual cigarettes. Such a situation is generally undesirable to the perception of the quality of the product. As such there exists a need for a method and system for inspecting individual smoking articles such as filtered cigarettes for defects prior to the products being packaged for distribution and sale. In some instances such an apparatus and method may desirably be used to halt or pause the production process upon detection of certain defects amount of defects and or frequency of defects such that the cause of the defects can be expediently addressed. It may also be desirable for such a solution to be readily implemented with respect to existing cigarette production machinery.

The above and other needs are met by aspects of the present disclosure which in one aspect provides a filtered smoking article inspection system for a smoking article comprising a filter element having a mouth end terminus and a smokable rod having a lighting end terminus opposite from the filter element wherein the smokable rod includes a smokable material having a circumscribing outer layer of a wrapping material and wherein the smokable rod and filter element are serially secured to each other by a tipping material circumscribing the filter element along a longitudinal periphery thereof and the smokable rod along a portion of a longitudinal periphery thereof adjacent to the filter element. Such an inspection system comprises a transport device configured to transport individual as formed smoking articles from a first position to a second position such that the tipping material associated with each smoking article is accessible at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article. An inspection device is operably engaged with the transport device and is configured to optically inspect each smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions. The inspection device is further configured to automatically determine from the optical inspection whether the inspected smoking article is defective.

In another aspect the transport device may be configured to engage the mouth end terminus of the filter element of the smoking article such that the smoking article is supported by at least the mouth end terminus between the first and second positions. In yet another aspect the transport device may be configured to engage the lighting end terminus of the smokable rod of the smoking article such that the smoking article is supported by at least the lighting end terminus between the first and second positions. In some instances a rotation device may be operably engaged with the transport device with the rotation device being configured to rotate the smoking article about a longitudinal axis thereof so as to allow the inspection device to inspect the smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material.

In order to accomplish the optical inspection an imaging device may be configured to capture at least one image of each smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions. In some instances a display terminal may be operably engaged with the imaging device and configured to display the at least one image of each smoking article. In other instances the inspection device may further comprise a computer device configured to automatically process the at least one image from the imaging device to determine whether the inspected smoking article is defective.

According to another aspect a selection device may be operably engaged with the transport device with the selection device being responsive to the inspection device to remove any smoking article determined to be defective by the inspection device. In this regard the inspection device may be further configured to determine whether a defect exists in the smoking articles from the optical inspection thereof with the defect being determined for example according to whether the tipping material is misaligned with respect to the smoking article whether the wrapping material is misaligned with respect to the smokable material whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material is wrinkled whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material is visibly contaminated whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material corresponds to a specified material whether multiple units of the tipping material have been applied to the smoking article whether multiple units of the wrapping material have been applied to the smokable material whether the tipping material is adhered as specified about the smoking article whether the wrapping material is adhered as specified about the smokable material whether the tipping material is rolled over itself along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article whether the tobacco rod is secured to the filter element by the tipping material whether the tipping material extends at least along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod as specified whether the wrapping material has been punctured to expose the smokable material and whether adhesive securing one of the tipping material about the smoking article and the wrapping material about the smokable material is exposed.

According to yet another aspect the inspection device may be configured to determine from the optical inspection of each smoking article whether the smoking article corresponds to a non defective smoking article. In such instances for example any smoking article not corresponding to a non defective smoking article through the optical inspection may be determined to be defective.

In one aspect the transport device includes a rotatable cylinder configured to retain an individual smoking article about an outer surface thereof as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions wherein the inspection device may further comprise an imaging device disposed adjacent to the rotatable cylinder and wherein the imaging device may be configured to optically inspect each smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smokable rod is transported therepast upon rotation of the cylinder.

Yet another aspect of the present disclosure comprises a method of inspecting a smoking article comprising a filter element having a mouth end terminus and a smokable rod having a lighting end terminus opposite from the filter element wherein the smokable rod includes a smokable material having a circumscribing outer layer of a wrapping material and wherein the smokable rod and filter element are serially secured to each other by a tipping material circumscribing the filter element along a longitudinal periphery thereof and the smokable rod along a portion of a longitudinal periphery thereof adjacent to the filter element. Such a method comprises transporting individual as formed smoking articles from a first position to a second position with a transport device such that the tipping material associated with each smoking article is accessible at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article. Each smoking article is then optically inspected with an inspection device at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions and the inspection device is configured to automatically determine whether the inspected smoking article is defective from the optical inspection thereof.

In some instances such a method may further comprise engaging the mouth end terminus of the filter element of the smoking article with the transport device such that the smoking article is supported by the mouth end terminus between the first and second positions. In another instance such a method may further comprise engaging the lighting end terminus of the smokable rod of the smoking article with the transport device such that the smoking article is supported by the lighting end terminus between the first and second positions. Further in some instances the smoking article may be rotated about a longitudinal axis thereof with a rotation device operably engaged with the transport device so as to allow the inspection device to inspect the smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material. In other instances at least one image of each smoking article may be captured with an imaging device at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions.

In one aspect such a method may further comprise displaying the at least one image of each smoking article on a display terminal operably engaged with the imaging device. In another aspect such a method may further comprise automatically processing at least one image from the imaging device with a computer device to determine whether the inspected smoking article is defective. In still another aspect any smoking article determined to be defective may be removed with a selection device operably engaged with the transport device in response to the determination by the inspection device. In this regard determining whether a defect exists in the smoking articles from the optical inspection thereof may be determined according to for example whether the tipping material is misaligned with respect to the smoking article whether the wrapping material is misaligned with respect to the smokable material whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material is wrinkled whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material is visibly contaminated whether one of the tipping material and the wrapping material corresponds to a specified material whether multiple units of the tipping material have been applied to the smoking article whether multiple units of the wrapping material have been applied to the smokable material whether the tipping material is adhered as specified about the smoking article whether the wrapping material is adhered as specified about the smokable material whether the tipping material is rolled over itself along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article whether the tobacco rod is secured to the filter element by the tipping material whether the tipping material extends at least along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod as specified whether the wrapping material has been punctured to expose the smokable material and whether adhesive securing one of the tipping material about the smoking article and the wrapping material about the smokable material is exposed.

In yet another aspect such a method may further comprise determining from the optical inspection of each smoking article whether the smoking article corresponds to a non defective smoking article. In such instances for example any smoking article not determined to correspond to a non defective smoking article through the optical inspection may thus be determined to be defective.

In one instance the transport device may include a rotatable cylinder and the method may further comprise retaining an individual smoking article about an outer surface of the rotatable cylinder as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions. In such instances the inspection device may further comprise an imaging device disposed adjacent to the rotatable cylinder and the method may further comprise optically inspecting each smoking article with the imaging device at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported therepast upon rotation of the cylinder

Aspects of the present disclosure are thus capable of inspecting individual smoking articles such as filtered cigarettes for defects prior to the products being packaged for distribution and sale. In some instances aspects of the present disclosure may also be used to halt or pause the production process upon detection of certain defects amount of defects and or frequency of defects such that the cause of the defects can be expediently addressed. Aspects of the present disclosure may also be readily implemented with respect to existing cigarette production machinery. As such aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented to improve the physical integrity and or aesthetic qualities of the formed cigarettes. Aspects of the present disclosure thus address the above needs and provide these and other advantages as otherwise detailed herein.

The present disclosure now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawing. The disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements.

Referring to there are shown components of a smoking article in the form of a filtered cigarette. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a smokable rod or tobacco rod . The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end or lighting end terminus and at the other end is shown a filter element .

The cigarette normally includes a filter element or other suitable mouthpiece positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element has a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof is essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element are open to permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. plasticized cellulose acetate tow that is overwrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . The filter element can comprise two or more filter segments not shown and or flavor additives incorporated therein.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod by a tipping material which circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. Opposite to the tobacco rod the filter element includes a mouth end or mouth end terminus . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive e.g. a water based adhesive of the type traditionally employed by cigarette manufacturers for application of tipping paper during filtered cigarette manufacture . That is the tipping material extends around the longitudinally extending periphery of substantially the entire length of the plug wrap and a portion of the longitudinally extending periphery of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod in a region of the tobacco rod immediately adjacent to the filter element. Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with air dilution provisions such as a plurality or series of perforations not shown each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap . Adhesive may also be applied to a longitudinally extending seam line or lap zone not shown of the tipping material such as is conventionally employed during cigarette manufacture.

In some instances the cigarette may also possess one or more additional layers of tipping material not shown overlying and circumscribing the inner layer of tipping material . All or selected portions of the inner surface of the additional tipping material can be fixedly secured to the outer surface of the inner tipping material . As such in some aspects the additional tipping material may overlie the entire length of the filter element and the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. In one aspect both tipping materials may extend essentially equal distances along the region of the tobacco rod that is adjacent the filter element. For certain cigarettes the inner and outer tipping materials may be substantially identical in overall dimension e.g. those tipping materials have comparable thicknesses widths and lengths . Optionally a ventilated or air diluted smoking article may be provided with air dilution provisions such as a series of perforations each of which extends through the outer tipping material the inner tipping material and the plug wrap . Adhesive can be applied to each of the tipping materials using techniques generally similar to those employed conventionally for tipping material application during cigarette manufacture.

Referring to there is shown a representative two up cigarette that can be subdivided along hashed line in order to provide two filtered cigarettes A B. In addition representative manners or methods for providing preferred types of cigarettes are described with reference to . A two up filter segment A is provided. That representative filter segment A possesses filter material circumscribed by plug wrap as in . Two tobacco rods A B are aligned at each end of the two up filter segment A. A layer of tipping material e.g. a so called patch of tipping material is wrapped around the aligned components such that the tipping material circumscribes the entire length of the two up filter segment A and a portion of the length of each tobacco rod A B in the respective regions thereof adjacent the filter segment. Typically that layer of tipping material circumscribes about 3 mm to about 4 mm of the length of each tobacco rod. As such a so called two up cigarette is provided. For certain preferred aspects the tipping material may be selected from types of tipping material and applied in a particular manner comparable to that traditionally used for commercial filtered cigarette manufacture. Optionally the cigarette can be air diluted e.g. using laser perforation techniques by forming at least one circumscribing ring of perforations through the layer of tipping material and underlying plug wrap. Then the two up combined segment A is cut in half i.e. through the two up filter segment A along hashed line perpendicular to its longitudinal axis to provide two finished cigarettes A B. As such the two finished cigarettes A B are each characterized by a smooth mouth end terminus wherein the mouth end terminus of the filter material plug wrap and tipping material are all in the same plane.

Cigarette rods typically are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 131 416 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 486 to Hartmann U.S. Pat. No. 7 275 548 to Hancock et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 281 540 to Barnes et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 271 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction transport systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities and types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in Johnson Development of Cigarette Components to Meet Industry Needs 52T.S.R.C. September 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 944 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Pat. No. 7 237 559 to Ashcraft et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 565 818 to Thomas et al. and U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and 2007 0246055 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably the entire smokable rod is composed of smokable material e.g. tobacco cut filler and a layer of circumscribing outer wrapping material.

Components for filter elements for filtered cigarettes typically are provided from filter rods that are produced using traditional types of rod forming units such as those available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. Typically filter material such as filter tow is provided using a tow processing unit. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. Other types of technologies for supplying filter materials to a filter rod forming unit are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker which are incorporated herein by reference.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials or additives used in connection with the construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers.

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1 100 CORESTA units to about 26 000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

Cigarette filter rods can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods then can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles dispersed within cellulose acetate tow e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced essentially of flavored plasticized cellulose acetate tow filter material at the other end. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that traditionally have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Representative types of filter designs and components including representative types of segmented cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 761 174 to Jupe et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 678 to Crooks et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2007 0056600 to Coleman III et al. PCT Publication No. WO 03 009711 to Kim and PCT Publication No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

The length of the filter element of each cigarette can vary. Typically the overall length of a filter element is about 20 mm to about 40 mm and often about 25 mm to about 35 mm. For a typical dual segment filter element the downstream or mouth end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm and the upstream or tobacco rod end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm.

Filter elements or filter segment components of combination filters typically are provided from filter rods that are manufactured using traditional types of cigarette filter rod making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX 2 MAX S MAX 80 or MAX 90 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Greene Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 434 585 to Holmes and U.S. Pat. No. 7 296 578 to Read Jr. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0169295 to Draghetti each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture. Manners and methods for applying adhesives to tipping materials during automated cigarette manufacture will be apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. For example a filtered cigarette can be tipped with a first layer of tipping material in an essentially traditional manner using a Lab MAX tipping device that is available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and that tipped cigarette can be collected and tipped again using that device e.g. using the device in an essentially traditional manner or in a suitably modified manner to provide a desired pattern of adhesive application in order to provide a filtered cigarette possessing two or more layers of tipping material if necessary or desired.

In instances of a single layer of tipping material the tipping material most preferably extends over the entire length of the filter element and about 2 mm to about 6 mm often about 3 mm to about 5 mm and frequently about 4 mm over the length of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The tipping material that is used for any of the one or more tipping material layers can vary. In certain preferred aspects the material used as the tipping material has the characteristics and qualities commonly associated with cigarette tipping materials known in the art. Typical tipping materials are papers exhibiting relatively high opacities. Representative tipping materials have TAPPI opacities of greater than about 81 percent often in the range of about 84 percent to about 90 percent and sometimes greater than about 90 percent. Typical tipping materials are printed with inks typically nitrocellulose based which can provide for a wide variety of appearances and lip release properties. Representative tipping papers or materials have basis weights ranging from about 25 m mto about 60 g m often about 30 g mto about 40 g m. Representative tipping papers are available as Tervakoski Reference Nos. 3121 3124 TK652 TK674 TK675 A360 and A362 and Schweitzer Mauduit International Reference Nos. GSR270 and GSR265M2. See also for example the types of tipping materials the methods for combining cigarette components using tipping materials and techniques for wrapping various portions of cigarettes using tipping materials that are set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al.

Adhesives used to secure tipping materials to each other or to other filtered cigarette components can vary. Typical exemplary adhesive formulations that are used for application of tipping material to other cigarette components in commercial filtered cigarette manufacturing operations are water based emulsions incorporating mixtures of ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and polyvinylacetate. Representative adhesives that are useful for applying tipping materials to cigarette components are available as Reference Nos. 32 2049 and 32 2124 from National Starch Adhesives Corp. See also for example Skeist Handbook of Adhesives 2Edition 1977 Schneberger Adhesive in Manufacturing 1983 Gutcho Adhesives Technology Developments Since 1979 1983 Landrock Adhesives Technology Handbook 1985 and Flick Handbook of Adhesives Raw Materials 2Edition 1989 .

Cigarettes can be air diluted. Tipping materials can be pre perforated or air diluted on line using laser perforation techniques. For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution provisions to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette.

Referring to some conventional type or suitably modified tipping devices such as for example a Lab MAX MAX MAX 2 MAX S MAX 80 or MAX 90 tipping device from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG are configured with one or more substantially cylindrical rotatable devices i.e. a drum cylinder etc. defining longitudinal channels or otherwise including longitudinally arranged securing mechanisms for receiving individual filter element tobacco rod assemblies smoking articles and for transporting the assemblies in a machine direction which may be for example in the direction of rotation of the rotatable device about the longitudinal axis thereof. For example in some instances each rotatable device may have a plurality of securing mechanisms operably engaged therewith and angularly spaced apart about the cylindrical surface thereof. Each securing mechanism may comprise for example contact members A B spaced apart along the axis of the rotatable device by about the length of the filter element tobacco rod assembly .

As previously disclosed a smoking article includes a filter element having a mouth end terminus and a smokable rod having a lighting end terminus opposite from the filter element wherein the smokable rod includes a smokable material having a circumscribing outer layer of a wrapping material and wherein the smokable rod and filter element are serially secured to each other by a tipping material circumscribing the filter element along a longitudinal periphery thereof and the smokable rod along a portion of a longitudinal periphery thereof adjacent to the filter element to form the assembly or smoking article . With such tipping devices an assembly may be received between the contact members A B and secured with respect to the rotatable device for example through a friction fit between the contact members A B or through a vacuum applied to the filter element tobacco rod assembly through either or both of the contact members A B. In one aspect the rotatable device may be configured such that the tipping material associated with each smoking article received thereby is accessible at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article to which it is applied.

In some instances one rotatable device associated with the tipping device may be configured to be actively engaged in the application of the tipping material paper about the filter element tobacco rod interface. In such instances for example that rotatable device may be configured to receive the assembly after an adhesive has been applied to the tipping paper seam line or the adhesive may be applied to the tipping paper seam line after being received by the rotatable device . In other instances the rotatable device may receive the assembly from a previous serially disposed rotatable device for inspection and or for removing rejected assemblies from the production process wherein the transfer of the assembly therebetween also forwards the assembly along the tipping device in a machine direction. As such the tipping device may also comprise a transport device configured to transport individual as formed smoking articles assemblies from a first position to a second position in a machine direction.

Upon the tipping device executing the filtered smoking article tipping process the manufacture of the smoking article is essentially complete. As such an opportunity may be present to examine each of the assemblies for any apparent defects. Some such apparent defects may include for example tipping material that is misaligned with respect to the smoking article i.e. forming a spiral instead of a cylinder when wrapped about the smoking article wrapping material that is misaligned with respect to the smokable material tipping material or wrapping material that is wrinkled tipping material or wrapping material that is visibly contaminated i.e. spots or other undesirable discolorations or stains the wrong tipping material i.e. the actual tipping material may not correspond to the specified material the wrong wrapping material multiple units of the tipping material applied to the smoking article i.e. units of the tipping paper in excess of the specified amount may get stuck together and applied about the smoking article multiple units of the wrapping material applied to the smokable material adhesive securing the tipping material that is unevenly applied about the smoking article or tipping material that is inconsistently adhered to the smoking article or overlapping ends of the tipping paper that are not securely adhered together overlapping ends of the wrapping material that are not securely adhered together thus exposing the smokable material tipping material that is rolled over itself along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod i.e. forming a raised collar about the smoking article tipping material that does not completely secure the tobacco rod to the filter element i.e. the tobacco rod may not be secured to and may thus easily separate from the filter element tipping material that does not extend at least along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod as specified wrapping material that has been punctured i.e. torn pulled or had a hole formed therein for instance by stem portions in the tobacco material comprising the smokable material to expose the smokable material and excess adhesive securing one of the tipping material about the smoking article and the wrapping material about the smokable material that is exposed.

In this regard there may exist some methods for evaluating the completed smoking article for defects. For example in one instance a pressure vacuum or airflow test could be conducted on the smoking article via the contact members A B while the smoking article is secured to the rotatable device thereby. More particularly an air flow or a vacuum pressure may be directed through either or both of the contact members A B to interact with the smoking article secured therebetween. The measured effect of the interaction may be used to infer certain defects in the smoking article but may not be useful to determine certain other defects. For example an airflow pressure vacuum test may be useful in determining whether the tipping paper is properly adhered about the filter element tobacco rod interface i.e. if a specified vacuum cannot be maintained across the smoking article there may be a leak about the filter element tobacco rod interface due to improperly adhered tipping paper . However the same airflow pressure vacuum test may not be able to determine whether the tipping material is misaligned wrinkled rolled over or contaminated. In some instances the airflow pressure vacuum test may not even be conducted for example where improperly adhered tipping paper about the filter element tobacco rod interface may be evidenced by the inability to secure the smoking article between the contact members A B. In such cases the defective smoking article may just remove itself from the rotatable device and thus the smoking article manufacturing process on its own. A further issue is that such methods of determining whether defects exist in manufactured smoking articles may not necessarily have the capability of determining the particular type of defect in each smoking article found to be defective. As such by not necessarily being able to identify the particular type of defect the method may not be able to indicate when corrective action must be taken in an upstream process during manufacture of the smoking article or even the particular upstream process requiring such corrective action to eliminate the apparent defects.

As such in one aspect of the present disclosure an inspection device such as an imaging device may be operably engaged with the transport device tipping device and configured to optically inspect each smoking article at least about the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smoking article having the tipping material as the smoking article is transported between the first and second positions in the machine direction. More particularly one or more imaging devices may be disposed adjacent to one or more of the rotatable devices with each imaging device being configured to capture one or more images of each smoking article secured by the rotatable device disposed adjacent thereto as the smoking articles are transported therepast from the first position to the second position i.e. to the subsequent rotatable device or other downstream device in the machine direction. In such instances the imaging device may be disposed adjacent to the rotatable device and be configured to be capable of capturing one or more images of a portion i.e. half of the circumference of each smoking article. That is when a smoking article is secured by the rotatable device about half of the circumference of the smoking article will be visible externally to the rotatable device . Upon transfer of the smoking article to a subsequent rotatable device the portion of the circumference of the smoking article not previously visible externally to the previous rotatable device will now be visible with respect to the subsequent rotatable device . As such another imaging device may be disposed adjacent to the subsequent rotatable device and configured to capture one or more images of the previously not visible portion of the smoking article . Combining the images from the two imaging devices may thus provide complete imaging of the entire circumference of the smoking article or at least about the circumference of the smoking article to the axial extent of the tipping paper i.e. about the filter element tobacco rod interface . In some instances as shown in a display terminal may be operably engaged with the imaging device of the inspection device wherein the display terminal may be configured to display the at least one image of each smoking article .

In other aspects of the disclosure the smoking article may be supported in different manners so as to allow the inspection device to perform the optical inspection thereof. For example the smoking article may be supported by or independently of the rotatable device . In some such instances the smoking article may be supported by engagement with the filter element only i.e. via the mouth end terminus or by the tobacco rod only i.e. via the lighting end terminus . In still other aspects the smoking article may be supported such that the imaging device moves about the smoking article to perform the optical inspection thereof. In yet other aspects the contact members A B of a rotatable device may be configured to rotate in concert with respect to the rotatable device so as to rotate the smoking article about the longitudinal axis thereof while the smoking article is secured to the rotatable device .

In one aspect in addition to the display terminal as shown in the inspection device may further comprise a computer device configured to automatically process the at least one image from the imaging device s to determine whether the inspected smoking article is defective. More particularly in some instances the inspection device may comprise or include a high speed monochrome or color camera Model No. CV H035M a monitor Model No. CA MP81 a PLC Model No. KV 16AT and a high speed vision system Model No. CV 5502 all from Keyence Corporation. In one configuration the inspection system may be implemented to perform a machine vision analysis of the smoking articles with an inspection speed i.e. processing time per smoking article inspection of less than about 10 milliseconds and preferably less than about 5 milliseconds. That is the computer device such as the vision system may be configured to analyze the one or more images of the area of the smoking article wrapped by the tipping paper whether individually or collectively to determine whether any defects exist in the completed product.

For example the computer device may be programmed with examples of various defects which may be discovered during the manufacture of the smoking article. In those instances the one or more images captured by the imaging device can then be compared to the exemplary defects by the computer device . As such if the computer device matches the one or more images of a particular smoking article to one of the exemplary defects to a reasonable certainty then the particular smoking article may be determined to be defective. In another example the computer device may be programmed with one or more examples of non defective smoking articles. In those instances the one or more images of the smoking article being inspected may then be compared to the non defective examples by the computer device . As such if the computer device does not matches the one or more images of a particular smoking article to one of the non defective examples to a reasonable certainty then the particular smoking article may be determined to be defective. One skilled in the art however will appreciate that a machine vision inspection or other automated evaluation of the one or more images of the smoking article may be accomplished in many different manners and as such the examples presented herein are not intended to be limiting. For example the one or more images may be stitched together or otherwise combined to form a continuous reconstructed image of the tipping paper circumscribing the smoking article wherein the reconstructed image can then be compared to an exemplary tipping paper specimen determined to be defect free.

As a result of the disclosed optical inspection machine vision evaluation of the substantially completed smoking article in the tipping device aspects of the disclosed filtered smoking article inspection system may be capable of particularly determining and or identifying from the optical inspection thereof certain apparent defects in the smoking articles such as for example tipping material that is misaligned with respect to the smoking article wrinkled tipping material tipping material that may be dirty stained or otherwise visibly contaminated tipping material comprising a non specified or otherwise incorrect material multiple units of the tipping material applied to the smoking article tipping material rolled over itself along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod and or tipping material that does not extend at least along the portion of the longitudinal periphery of the smokable rod as specified. In some instances aspects of the filtered smoking article inspection system may also be capable of particularly determining for instance whether the tipping material is completely adhered about the smoking article and or whether a tobacco rod is properly secured to the filter element by the tipping material either using the disclosed optical inspection machine vision evaluation alone or in conjunction with another inspection process such as the aforementioned airflow pressure vacuum test. For the latter it may be determined for example that if no defects in the smoking article are apparent from the optical inspection thereof but the smoking article fails the airflow pressure vacuum test then there exists a defect likely related to the adherence of the tipping material about the filter element tobacco rod interface or along the tipping material seam line.

In some aspects a defective smoking article identified as such by the filtered smoking article inspection system may be removed from the process prior to that defective smoking article being packaged for further distribution. As previously disclosed such a defective smoking article may not necessarily be securable to the rotatable device via the contact members A B. In other instances the defective smoking article may be released from the rotatable device at an appropriate point as the rotatable device advances that defective smoking article from the first position to or past the second position. For example the defective smoking article may be deposited in a reject receptacle or directed to a re work process depending on the particular defect identified. In other instances the defective smoking article may be removed from the rotatable device by a selection device i.e. a subsequent rotatable device or other mechanism for receiving the defective smoking article from the previous rotatable device operably engaged therewith. In some aspects the directing the defective smoking article in a desired manner to a subsequent process for handling such defective smoking articles may be accomplished in response to the computer device associated with the inspection device. In addition aspects of the filtered smoking article inspection system may be configured to monitor the determined defects found in the smoking articles for example by amount and or frequency and communicating the results or otherwise directing appropriate corrective action be taken if a selected threshold is attained i.e. whether to address an upstream process to address a material issue or to address a source of contamination .

Many modifications and other aspects of the disclosure will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this disclosure pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present disclosure can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. For example as shown in the concept of applying an optical inspection machine vision evaluation of the filter element tobacco rod interface as it relates to the application of the tipping material may also be extended to include an optical inspection machine vision evaluation of the remainder of the tobacco rod as well. That is in instances where one imaging device A is implemented adjacent to a rotation device to capture one or more images of the filter element tobacco rod interface as it relates to the application of the tipping material a second imaging device B may be disposed adjacent to the first imaging device so as to be capable of capturing one or more images of the remaining tobacco rod portion of the smoking article at the same inspection point. Both imaging devices A B are configured to interface with the computer device to implement the machine vision functionality and may also be in communication with the display terminal . More particularly as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the computer device may also be configured to compare the one or more images of the tobacco rod portion captured by the second imaging device B to examples of defective or non defective tobacco rods in order to determine whether a defect exists in the tobacco rod wherein exemplary defects have been previously noted herein . Further in some aspects the one or more images captured by the first and second imaging devices A B may be concurrently analyzed by the computer device to evaluate other parameters of the smoking article such as for example the overall length. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

