---

title: Controlling power consumption of a mobile device based on gesture recognition
abstract: In an embodiment, a mobile device includes a sensor processor system, an application processor system and a power management controller that controls power being applied to the application processor system. The sensor processor system monitors sensors connected to the mobile device. The sensor processor system detects a pre-defined gestures and an environmental condition or event based on the monitoring. The pre-defined gesture corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device (e.g., the user jogs with the mobile device, places the mobile device in his/her pocket or backpack, etc.). The sensor processor system selects a power profile to be applied to the application processor system based on the detection, and instructs the power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09086875&OS=09086875&RS=09086875
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09086875
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100602
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 184 437 entitled DEDICATED SENSORS CORE MICROCONTROLLER BASED ARCHITECTURE filed Jun. 5 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is related to co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 101 930 entitled POWER MANAGEMENT USING AT LEAST ONE OF A SPECIAL PROCESSOR AND MOTION SENSING filed on Apr. 11 2008 by Leonid Sheynblat and Thomas G. Wolf assigned to the same assignee as the subject application and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments are directed to power management of mobile devices and more particularly to controlling power consumption of a mobile device based on gesture recognition.

Battery life is an important criterion in mobile access terminals e.g. cell phones MP3 players wireless mobile access terminals non wireless mobile access terminals etc. . There are a number of different mechanisms in conventional access terminals for managing power consumption. Some access terminals enter a low power mode or sleep mode when no applications are being executed. Other access terminals have more sophisticated power management mechanisms whereby the amount of power consumed scales with the processing load of the respective access terminal.

In an embodiment a mobile device includes a sensor processor system an application processor system and a power management controller that controls power being applied to the application processor system. The sensor processor system monitors sensors connected to the mobile device. The sensor processor system detects a pre defined gestures and an environmental condition or event based on the monitoring. The pre defined gesture corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device e.g. the user jogs with the mobile device places the mobile device in his her pocket or backpack etc. . The sensor processor system selects a power profile to be applied to the application processor system based on the detection and instructs the power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.

For example a first embodiment is directed to a method of controlling power consumption of a mobile device including monitoring at a sensor processor system of the mobile device one or more sensors connected to the mobile device detecting one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and one or more environmental conditions or events based on the monitoring wherein each of the plurality of pre defined gestures corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device selecting one of a plurality of power profiles to be applied to an application processor system based on the detecting and instructing a power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.

In a further example of the first embodiment the monitoring can be performed periodically by the sensor processor system. The one or more sensors can include a a light sensor b a pressure sensor c a gyroscopic sensor d an accelerometer e a touch screen proximity sensor f a fingerprint sensor and or g a haptic sensor. The one or more user initiated actions can include a the user pressing a key or button of the mobile device b the user walking or jogging with the mobile device c the user picking up the mobile device from a surface or storage location d the user placing the mobile device onto a surface or into a storage location e a proximity of the user s fingers being close to a display of the mobile device and or f the user moving into an airplane with the mobile device. The one or more environmental conditions or events can include a an amount of light in proximity to the mobile device b a temperature in proximity to the mobile device c an acceleration of the mobile device d a velocity of the mobile device e an altitude of the mobile device and or f identifying one or more wireless transmitters in range of the mobile device.

In a further example of the first embodiment the selected power profile can establish a a clock frequency at which an application processor of the application processor system is to operate b a current or voltage at which the application processor of the application processor system is to operate and or c whether a modem subsystem configured to manage wireless communications to or from the mobile device is turned on or off. The mobile device can correspond to a wireless mobile device that includes a modem subsystem to manage wireless communications to or from the wireless mobile device.

The first embodiment may further include selecting one or more applications for execution by the application processor system based on the detecting wherein the instructing step further instructs the application processor system to load the one or more applications and wherein the selected power profile is configured to support power requirements of the one or more applications. The one or more applications includes an audio application and the selected power profile provides power for at least audio circuitry of the mobile device. The one or more applications can include a texting or email application and the selected power profile provides power for at least display circuitry of the mobile device. The one or more applications can include a wireless communications application and the selected power profile provides power for a modem subsystem of the mobile device. The selected power profile can be configured to provide a level of power that approximates a level of power required to support the one or more applications.

In a further example of the first embodiment the first embodiment can further include at the power management controller determining that the application processor system has transitioned to a different mode of operation associated with a different power profile from among the plurality of power profiles and applying the different power profile to the application processor system. The different mode of operation can correspond to a sleep mode and the different power profile can correspond to a power profile associated with low power requirements of the sleep mode. The selected power profile can be associated with a first active mode and the different mode of operation can correspond to a second active mode the first and second active modes having different power requirements for the application processor system that are each higher than a sleep mode power requirement for the application processor system.

In another example a second embodiment is directed to a mobile device including an application processor system configured to execute one or more applications a power management controller configured to control power consumption of the application processor system and a sensor processor system configured to monitor one or more sensors connected to the mobile device to detect one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and one or more environmental conditions or events based on the monitoring to select one of a plurality of power profiles to be applied to the application processor system based on the detection and to instruct the power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system each of the plurality of pre defined gestures corresponding to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device.

In a further example of the second embodiment the sensor processor system can monitor the one or more sensors on a periodic basis. The sensor processor system can continue to monitor the one or more sensors when the application processor system transitions to a sleep state. The one or more sensors include a a light sensor b a pressure sensor c a gyroscopic sensor d an accelerometer e a touch screen proximity sensor f a fingerprint sensor and or g a haptic sensor. The one or more user initiated actions can include a the user pressing a key or button of the mobile device b the user walking or jogging with the mobile device c the user picking up the mobile device from a surface or storage location d the user placing the mobile device onto a surface or into a storage location e a proximity of the user s fingers being close to a display of the mobile device and or f the user moving into an airplane with the mobile device. The one or more environmental conditions or events can include a an amount of light in proximity to the mobile device b a temperature in proximity to the mobile device c an acceleration of the mobile device d a velocity of the mobile device e an altitude of the mobile device and or f identifying one or more wireless transmitters in range of the mobile device.

In a further example of the second embodiment the selected power profile can establish a a clock frequency at which an application processor of the application processor system is to operate b a current or voltage at which the application processor of the application processor system is to operate and or c whether a modem subsystem configured to manage wireless communications to or from the mobile device is turned on or off. The mobile device can correspond to a wireless mobile device that includes a modem subsystem to manage wireless communications to or from the wireless mobile device. The sensor processor system can select one or more applications for execution by the application processor system based on the detection the sensor processor system can instruct the application processor system to load the one or more applications and the selected power profile can be configured to support power requirements of the one or more applications.

In a further example of the second embodiment the one or more applications can include an audio application and the selected power profile provides power for audio circuitry of the mobile device. The one or more applications can include a texting or email application and the selected power profile provides power for display circuitry of the mobile device. The one or more applications can include a wireless communications application and the selected power profile provides power for a modem subsystem of the mobile device. The selected power profile can be configured to provide a level of power that approximates a level of power required to support the one or more applications. The power management controller can be configured to determine that the application processor system has transitioned to different mode of operation associated with a different power profile from among the plurality of power profiles and to apply the different power profile to the application processor system. The different mode of operation can correspond to a sleep mode and the different power profile can correspond to a power profile associated with low power requirements of the sleep mode. The selected power profile can be associated with a first active mode and the different mode of operation can correspond to a second active mode the first and second active modes having different power requirements for the application processor system that are each higher than a sleep mode power requirement for the application processor system.

In another example a third embodiment is directed to a mobile device including means for monitoring at a sensor processor system of the mobile device one or more sensors connected to the mobile device means for detecting one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and one or more environmental conditions or events based on the monitoring wherein each of the plurality of pre defined gestures corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device and means for selecting one of a plurality of power profiles to be applied to an application processor system based on the detection and means for instructing a power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.

In a further example of the third embodiment the one or more sensors can include a a light sensor b a pressure sensor c a gyroscopic sensor d an accelerometer e a touch screen proximity sensor f a fingerprint sensor and or g a haptic sensor. The one or more user initiated actions can include a the user pressing a key or button of the mobile device b the user walking or jogging with the mobile device c the user picking up the mobile device from a surface or storage location d the user placing the mobile device onto a surface or into a storage location e a proximity of the user s fingers being close to a display of the mobile device and or f the user moving into an airplane with the mobile device. The one or more environmental conditions or events can include a an amount of light in proximity to the mobile device b a temperature in proximity to the mobile device c an acceleration of the mobile device d a velocity of the mobile device e an altitude of the mobile device and or f identifying one or more wireless transmitters in range of the mobile device.

In a further example of the third embodiment the selected power profile can establish a a clock frequency at which an application processor of the application processor system is to operate b a current or voltage at which the application processor of the application processor system is to operate and or c whether a modem subsystem configured to manage wireless communications to or from the mobile device is turned on or off. The mobile device can further include means for selecting one or more applications for execution by the application processor system based on the detection wherein the means for instructing further instructs the application processor system to load the one or more applications and wherein the selected power profile is configured to support power requirements of the one or more applications. Also the mobile device can further include means for determining that the application processor system has transitioned to different mode of operation associated with a different power profile from among the plurality of power profiles and means for applying the different power profile to the application processor system.

In another example a fourth embodiment is directed to a mobile device including logic configured to monitor at a sensor processor system of the mobile device one or more sensors connected to the mobile device logic configured to detect one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and one or more environmental conditions or events based on the monitoring wherein each of the plurality of pre defined gestures corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device logic configured to select one of a plurality of power profiles to be applied to an application processor system based on the detection and logic configured to instruct a power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.

In a further example of the fourth embodiment the one or more sensors can include a a light sensor b a pressure sensor c a gyroscopic sensor d an accelerometer e a touch screen proximity sensor f a fingerprint sensor and or g a haptic sensor. The one or more user initiated actions can include a the user pressing a key or button of the mobile device b the user walking or jogging with the mobile device c the user picking up the mobile device from a surface or storage location d the user placing the mobile device onto a surface or into a storage location e a proximity of the user s fingers being close to a display of the mobile device and or f the user moving into an airplane with the mobile device. The one or more environmental conditions or events can include a an amount of light in proximity to the mobile device b a temperature in proximity to the mobile device c an acceleration of the mobile device d a velocity of the mobile device e an altitude of the mobile device and or f identifying one or more wireless transmitters in range of the mobile device. The selected power profile can establish a a clock frequency at which an application processor of the application processor system is to operate b a current or voltage at which the application processor of the application processor system is to operate and or c whether a modem subsystem configured to manage wireless communications to or from the mobile device is turned on or off.

In a further example of the fourth embodiment the mobile device can further include logic configured to select one or more applications for execution by the application processor system based on the detection wherein the logic configured to instruct further instructs the application processor system to load the one or more applications and wherein the selected power profile is configured to support power requirements of the one or more applications. Also the mobile device can further include logic configured to determine that the application processor system has transitioned to different mode of operation associated with a different power profile from among the plurality of power profiles and logic configured to apply the different power profile to the application processor system.

In another example a fifth embodiment is directed to a non transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions stored thereon which when executed by a mobile device cause the mobile device to perform operations the instructions including program code to monitor at a sensor processor system of the mobile device one or more sensors connected to the mobile device program code to detect one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and one or more environmental conditions or events based on the monitoring wherein each of the plurality of pre defined gestures corresponds to one or more actions initiated by a user of the mobile device program code to select one of a plurality of power profiles to be applied to an application processor system based on the detection and program code to instruct a power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system.

In a further example of the fifth embodiment the one or more sensors can include a a light sensor b a pressure sensor c a gyroscopic sensor d an accelerometer e a touch screen proximity sensor f a fingerprint sensor and or g a haptic sensor. The one or more user initiated actions can include a the user pressing a key or button of the mobile device b the user walking or jogging with the mobile device c the user picking up the mobile device from a surface or storage location d the user placing the mobile device onto a surface or into a storage location e a proximity of the user s fingers being close to a display of the mobile device and or f the user moving into an airplane with the mobile device. The one or more environmental conditions or events can include a an amount of light in proximity to the mobile device b a temperature in proximity to the mobile device c an acceleration of the mobile device d a velocity of the mobile device e an altitude of the mobile device and or f identifying one or more wireless transmitters in range of the mobile device. The selected power profile can establish a a clock frequency at which an application processor of the application processor system is to operate b a current or voltage at which the application processor of the application processor system is to operate and or c whether a modem subsystem configured to manage wireless communications to or from the mobile device is turned on or off.

In a further example of the fifth embodiment the non transitory computer readable storage medium can further include program code to select one or more applications for execution by the application processor system based on the detection wherein the program code to instruct further instructs the application processor system to load the one or more applications and wherein the selected power profile is configured to support power requirements of the one or more applications. Also the non transitory computer readable storage medium can further include program code to determine that the application processor system has transitioned to different mode of operation associated with a different power profile from among the plurality of power profiles and program code to apply the different power profile to the application processor system.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Accordingly the access terminal of corresponds to a mobile station whereby a mobile station MS refers to a device such as a cellular or other wireless communication device personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device PND Personal Information Manager PIM Personal Digital Assistant PDA laptop or other suitable mobile device which is capable of receiving wireless communication and or navigation signals. The term mobile station is also intended to include devices which communicate with a personal navigation device PND such as by short range wireless infrared wireline connection or other connection regardless of whether satellite signal reception assistance data reception and or position related processing occurs at the device or at the PND. Also mobile station is intended to include all devices including wireless communication devices computers laptops etc. which are capable of communication with a server such as via the Internet WiFi or other network and regardless of whether satellite signal reception assistance data reception and or position related processing occurs at the device at a server or at another device associated with the network. Any operable combination of the above are also considered a mobile station. 

As discussed in the Background section battery life is an important criterion in mobile access terminals e.g. cell phones MP3 players wireless mobile access terminals non wireless mobile access terminals etc. . There are a number of different mechanisms in conventional access terminals for managing power consumption. Some access terminals enter a low power mode or sleep mode when no applications are being executed. Other access terminals have more sophisticated power management mechanisms whereby the amount of power consumed scales with the processing load of the respective access terminal.

For example assume that a conventional access terminal is in sleep mode and that the access terminal then determines to exit sleep mode. This determination can be made for example when a user of the access terminal presses a button on the access terminal. As the access terminal exits sleep mode hardware on the access terminal e.g. a modem application processor etc. is powered up and the user of the access terminal is typically presented with some type of menu or home screen. Assume the user is powering up the access terminal to load play music. Accordingly from the home screen of the access terminal the user navigates to an option for launching an MP3 player selects the option and then the MP3 player is loaded on the access terminal.

As will be appreciated the above described process is relatively slow because the user is expected to navigate to the desired application or API for execution from the access terminal s home screen. Also the above described process can potentially consume more power than strictly necessary because the display of the access terminal is likely to have been powered up hardware not required for executing the MP3 API and outputting music may have been powered up and the primary high powered processor is turned on for a period of time before the user s desired functions are determined.

Embodiments of the invention are thereby directed to selectively controlling power applied to a primary application processing system as well as selectively loading and or shutting down APIs of the primary application processing system based on recognition that the user of the access terminal has performed one of a plurality of pre defined gestures and or based on one or more environmental conditions or events. As used herein a gesture corresponds to a set of one or more direct user actions that are detectable by the access terminals. As will be discussed below the gesture detection can itself be based in part on environmental conditions such as ambient light decreasing which is used to corroborate a gesture corresponding to the user placing a mobile device in his her pocket or backpack.

For example a gesture can correspond to the user having the access terminal in his her pocket when walking jogging driving etc. or the gesture can be shaking the access terminal moving the access terminal in a particular manner and so on. For example the user can move the access terminal to a different altitude can move the access terminal with a given amount of acceleration or velocity and so on. Also the gestures can be corroborated by non user actions and or conditions. In other words certain actions and or conditions outside of the user s direct influence can ease the detection of the user s direct action that corresponds to the gesture. For example if a gesture is mapped to an action such sending a signal to an oven to begin a pre heat operation so the user can begin making dinner then the gesture can be more confidently detected if the access terminal thinks it is located at the user s home e.g. based on a local connection such as Bluetooth based on GPS based on a current serving base station etc. . Thus environmental conditions or other non user actions or conditions can aid in the gesture recognition process and can either be considered part of the gesture itself or can be considered to be a separate consideration used to corroborate or verify the gesture. In another example the environmental condition or event can correspond to a change in humidity altitude ambient light or temperature an antenna receiving a certain signal detecting that the access terminal is in range of a particular wireless transmitter e.g. a base station router GPS station access point etc. etc. Accordingly a gesture may be initially recognized using sensor input and then further corroborated via environmental conditions or events.

These gestures and or environmental conditions are monitored by a sensor processor system which operates independently from the application processor system that executes the APIs. Each pre defined gesture is mapped to a set of APIs or one or more applications or routines associated with the set of APIs configured for execution by the application processor system and or the modem subsystem and each pre defined gesture is also mapped to one of a plurality of power profiles for the application processor system and or the modem subsystem. In an embodiment of the invention the above described power profiles can be stored in external memory and loaded when required at the direction of the power management controller the power profile selection is determined by the gesture engine output. For instance a gesture is detected and the user has already defined this gesture to start the MP3 player. The power profile for the MP3 player will be selected by the power manager based on a command sent to the power management subsystem from the sensor processor gesture detection engine . Alternatively the above described power profiles can be stored in internal memory e.g. flash memory that is accessible to the power management controller. Thus upon detecting a particular gesture the sensor processor system sends instructions for transitioning the application processing system and or the modem subsystem A to the associated power profile. In an example the instructions for transitioning the application processing system to the associated power profile can include instructions for modifying the manner in which the set of APIs are executed e.g. instructions to shut down start up or otherwise modify execution for one or more of the set of APIs . In another example the instructions for transitioning the modem subsystem portion of the application processing system to the associated power profile can include instructions for modifying the size of a frequency search for the modem subsystem e.g. reduce the frequency range being searched if the access terminal is expected to be out of service etc. . The sensor processor system is configured to consume a much lower amount of power than the application processor system and or the modem subsystem such that overall power consumption of the access terminal can be reduced.

The sensor processor system A can be maintained in an on state even when the application processor system is in a sleep state with the gesture recognition module being executed continuously in order to detect when a pre defined gesture occurs. However the sensor processor system A can have one or more low power modes. For example in one low power mode the sensor processor of the sensor processor system A can be in a dormant state but can be configured to wake up when an interrupt from one of the sensors A is received. For example most of the sensors A can be powered down in the dormant state for the sensor processor system A but one or more sensors e.g. such as an accelerometer can remain active to provide interrupts for waking up the sensor processor system A. The sensor processor system A can also be placed in duty cycle mode such that the sensor processor system A will periodically wake up to check one or more of sensors A. Thus while the sensor processor system A is maintained in an on state this is not intended to imply that each of sensors A are used constantly and or that the sensor process is active continuously but rather that the sensor processor system A will be capable of detecting a pre defined gesture in a timely fashion and will not be shut down altogether. The sensor processor system A is connected to both the application processor system A and or modem subsystem A and the power management controller A via a connection A which can be a single bus multiple buses and or other types of connection pathways.

Generally APIs are executed by the application processor system A with the sensor processor system A configured to monitor for the pre defined gestures and then take appropriate action. However it is also possible one or more APIs could be offloaded from the application processor system A to the sensor processor system A. For example APIs that do not require a high amount of processing resources could be offloaded to the sensor processor system A which will generally have a slower lower power processor than the application processor system A. In another example sensor specific APIs e.g. a pedometer API that counts the steps of the user when walking jogging etc. could be offloaded to the sensor processor system A since the sensor processor system A is already monitoring sensors . . . N.

The application processor system A includes the hardware and or software associated with executing APIs on the access terminal and can also include hardware and or software related to wireless communications e.g. modem hardware an antenna etc. if the access terminal is configured for wireless connectivity. Accordingly the application processor system A is shown in as including a modem subsystem A which corresponds to the software and or hardware related to wireless connectivity for the access terminal. In an embodiment the modem subsystem A can optionally be omitted from the access terminal if the access terminal is not configured for wireless communications. As shown in in an active state the application processor system A is configured to execute one or more APIs . . . M A.

The power management controller A controls the power consumption of the application processor system A and or the modem subsystem A. For example the power management controller A can selectively turn on or off specific hardware of the application processor system A such as the modem hardware. The power management controller A can also scale the power consumption of specific hardware in the application processor system A either up or down. For example the voltage applied to the application processor can be increased or decreased to manage the power consumption of the application processor system A Also the clock signal applied to hardware in the application processor system A can be increased or decreased to control the speed of execution of the application processor system A which in turn controls its power consumption.

The power management controller A manages the power consumption of the application processor system A in accordance with a power profile selected by the power profile selection module A of the sensor processor system A and then conveyed to the power management controller A via the connection A. However the power management controller A can also override the selected power profile from the sensor processor system such as when the application processor system A informs the power management controller A that its power requirements have changed e.g. a user has requested a shut down or loading of one or more APIs through the application processor system A etc. .

The I2C B connects to the application processor B via a bus B the SPI B connects to the application processor B via a bus B and the GPIO B connects to the application processor B via a bus B. In the SPI B is shown as corresponding to a Slimbus. The bus B is itself connected to a bus B to a power management integrated circuit PMIC B. In an example in the direction from the PMIC B to the application processor B the bus B can carry clock enable signals that are used to control hardware on the application processor B. The PMIC B can also apply dynamic voltage and frequency scaling controls to the application processor B and or the modem subsystem B. Collectively elements buses B B B and B are included in the connection A of and the PMIC B corresponds to the power management controller A of .

In the embodiment of the application processor B is illustrated as an ARM11 Scorpio processor although it will be appreciated that the application processor B can correspond to a different type of processor in other embodiments of the invention. The application processor B connects to a memory B via a bus B. The memory B is connected to a modem subsystem via bus B. In an example the modem subsystem B corresponds to an ARM DSP processor and can include Global Positioning System GPS functionality although the modem system B could be configured differently in other embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the modem subsystem B is connected to a power amplifier PA and antenna switch B via a bus B which is also connected to the bus B. In an example the bus B can be used to carry signaling related to antenna switch PA reception transmission RX TX detection . Accordingly in this sense the PA and antenna switch B can be considered to be a sensor among sensors . . . N A of the sensor processor system A of in an example.

The elements B B B and B of collectively corresponds to the application processor system A of . Thus it will be appreciated that the PMIC B can separately connect to each hardware element of the application processor system A for controlling the power consumption of each hardware element independently. In other words the PMIC B can connect to the application processor B via buses B and B the PMIC B can connect to the modem subsystem via buses B B and B and so on.

In A assume that a user of AT gestures AT Gesture in a manner consistent with one of a plurality of pre defined gestures known to the gesture recognition module A of . As will be described in greater detail below the gesture of A can correspond to any number of environmental conditions such as the user shaking AT in a particular manner a voice command of the user etc. One or more of sensors . . . N detect a change to AT s environment from the gesture of A and at least the one or more sensors report sensor data to the gesture recognition module A which then detects or identifies the gesture from A based on the reported sensor data A. Thus the environmental conditions or events monitored by the sensors are used to detect the gesture from A. In an example the sensors . . . N can simply all report on a continuous or periodic basis or alternatively reports from the sensors . . . N can be event triggered such that sensor data is only sent to the gesture recognition module A when a potential gesture is detected.

Examples of gestures and gesture recognition will now be described in more detail before turning back to the process of . Examples of gestures and the types of sensors that can be used to detect the gestures are provided below in Table 1 

In an example referring to Table 1 above each gesture can be pre defined such that the gesture recognition module A can evaluate sensor data from the relevant sensors and compare this sensor data with one or more pre defined sensor data parameters for the gesture. The one or more pre defined sensor data parameters can correspond to ranges of sensor data that will satisfy the definition for a particular gesture. Also the one or more pre defined sensor data parameters can include parameters for a single sensor or alternatively parameters for multiple sensors. In a gesture is associated with pre defined parameters for multiple sensors it will be appreciated that i any of the sensors reporting sensor data consistent with its parameter s can result in gesture recognition by the gesture recognition module A or ii alternatively that each of the multiple sensors reporting sensor data consistent with its respective parameter s can result in gesture recognition by the gesture recognition module A.

Turning back to after detecting the gesture in A the gesture recognition module A launches the power profile selection module A in order to select one of a plurality of power profiles that is associated with the identified pre defined gesture A and the gesture recognition module A also launches the API selection module to select API s that are associated with the identified pre defined gesture A. In an example while described as separate modules the modules A A and A can correspond to a single software application executed by the sensor processor system A.

As will be appreciated the API selection module A and power profile selection module A can map the identified gesture from A to a predetermined or preset API instruction and power profile respectively to be conveyed to the application processor system A and power management controller A respectively. For example based on the gestures listed in Table 1 above the API selection module A can use a gesture to API table as follows 

In another example based on the gestures listed in Table 1 above the power profile selection module can use a gesture to power profile table as follows 

Examples of the modem subsystem and application processor voltage settings for the power profiles listed in Table 3 may be as follows in one example 

While the power profiles listed in Table 4 include a very small set of adjustable power profile settings for the application processor system A it will be appreciated that different groups of power profile settings could be associated with power profiles in accordance with other embodiments of the invention

Turning back to after making the power profile and API selections in A and A the sensor processor system A sends an instruction to the power management controller A via the connection A that requests the power management controller A to load or implement the selected power profile A and the sensor processor system A also sends an instruction to the application processor system A via the connection A that requests the application processor system A to exit sleep state and to load or shut down the selected API s or applications routines associated with the APIs A.

After sending the instructions in A and A the sensor processor system A resumes its monitoring of sensors . . . N in order to detect any subsequent gestures A. Upon receiving the instruction from A the power management controller A applies the selected power profile power profile to the application processor system A A. Upon receiving the instruction from A the application processor system A loads the selected API s A and enters an active state active state .

Next at some later point in time the application processor system A determines to transition itself back to sleep mode B. In the example of the determination of B is not based on a gesture detected by the sensor processor system A but rather by the application processor system A itself. For example the application processor system A may have completed execution of a user requested task and no longer requires execution of any APIs resulting in the determination of B. In B if necessary the application processor system A shuts down any APIs that were executing during its active state operation. The application processor system A also sends a sleep mode notification to the power management controller A to request that the power management controller A supply power in accordance with sleep state or sleep mode as opposed to actives state B.

While B is shown as occurring after B in it will be appreciated that the order of these operations can be switched in other embodiments such that the sleep state notification is sent before the application processor system A shuts down its APIs in preparation for the sleep state. Accordingly the application processor A enters sleep state in B and the power management controller B applies a power profile for sleep state operation B as in A of .

Next at some later point in time the application processor system A determines to transition itself from active state to active state C where active modes and are each either associated with different sets of API routines for execution or with different hardware requirements. For example active state may be associated with a game API that requires a display of the application processing system A to be powered up whereas active state may be associated with a music API that does not require the display to be powered up. In another example active state may be associated with a communication API that requires modem hardware to be powered up for wireless communications whereas active state may be associated with a non communicative API that does not require modem hardware to be powered up. Also the same API could use different hardware at different times in which case transitions from one active mode to another active mode could occur without an API change.

In the example of the determination of C is not based on a gesture detected by the sensor processor system A but rather by the application processor system A itself. For example the application processor system A may be requested by the user of AT to load or shut down a certain API an API being executed in active state may have completed a download and no longer requires access to modem hardware for wireless communications etc.

In C if necessary the application processor system A shuts down APIs required for active state and not required for active state and or loads APIs that are required for active state and not required for active state . The application processor system A also sends a notification to the power management controller A to request that the power management controller A supply power in accordance with active state as opposed to active state C.

While C is shown as occurring after C in it will be appreciated that the order of these operations can be switched in other embodiments such that the active state notification is sent before the application processor system A shuts down and or loads APIs in preparation for active state . Accordingly the application processor A enters active state in C and the power management controller B applies a power profile for active state C.

Referring to in D assume that a user of AT gestures AT gesture in a manner consistent with a different one of the plurality of pre defined gestures known to the gesture recognition module A of . Accordingly one or more of sensors . . . N detect a change to AT s environment from the gesture of D and at least the one or more sensors report sensor data to the gesture recognition module A which then detects or identifies the gesture from D based on the reported sensor data A. In an example the sensors . . . N can simply all report on a continuous or periodic basis or alternatively one or more of the sensors . . . N can report from the sensors . . . N can be event triggered such that sensor data is only sent to the gesture recognition module A when a potential gesture is detected.

After detecting the gesture in D the gesture recognition module A launches the power profile selection module A in order to select one of a plurality of power profiles that is associated with the identified pre defined gesture D and the gesture recognition module A also launches the API selection module to select API s that are associated with the identified pre defined gesture if any D. In an example while described as separate modules the modules A A and A can correspond to a single software application executed by the sensor processor system A.

After making the power profile and API selections in D and D the sensor processor system A sends an instruction to the power management controller A via the connection A that requests the power management controller A to load or implement the selected power profile D and the sensor processor system A also sends an instruction to the application processor system A via the connection A that requests the application processor system A to load the selected API s D.

After sending the instructions in D and D the sensor processor system A resumes its monitoring of sensors . . . N in order to detect any subsequent gestures D. Upon receiving the instruction from D the power management controller A applies the higher of the selected power profile power profile and the current power profile power profile to the application processor system A D. In an example the sensor processor system A detects gestures and knows power profiles that are required for correct operation of API s and or hardware associated with the detected gestures. However it is possible that the application processor system A is already engaged in other operations that require even more power. In this case the power profile for the gesture will already be satisfied by the current power profile for the application processor system A in which case the power profile need not change. Thus the power profile of D corresponds to the higher of the power profile selected by the sensor processor system A in D and the current power profile from D.

As will be appreciated these power profiles could also be merged in D resulting in a new power profile power profile altogether. For example assume power profile powers the application processor at 8 Volts and does not power up modem hardware at all whereas power profile powers the application processor at 4 Volts and also powers up the modem hardware. In this case operations associated with power profile are expected to require 8 Volts which will also satisfy the 4 Volt requirement of power profile . Thus the power profiles and would be merged in this case resulting in power profile that applies 8 Volts to the application processor while also powering up the modem hardware. Upon receiving the instruction from D the application processor system A loads the selected API s if necessary D and thereby transitions from active state into active state D. Of course in an alternative embodiment the newer gesture i.e. gesture in D could simply be configured to override any existing processes such that power profile would be applied even if power profile had higher power requirements.

While each illustrate examples by which the sensor processor system is executing and at least partially controls the power profile applied to the application processor system or the modem processor in an embodiment the sensor processor system itself can begin its execution at the direction of the application processor system in an example. For example when the overall chipset of the access terminal is in off mode and then begins a power up procedure the application processor system will load the sensors processor system s internal memory with the sensors processor boot core. The sensors processor system will subsequently load the appropriate memory profile initial state . After the initialization procedure is complete the sensors processor will enter its low power mode if there are no clients application processors or modem processors requesting sensors data or algorithm functionality. The sensor processor can be reset by the application processors in the case where its code is being serviced or upgraded.

As will be appreciated in the application processor system A is transitioned directly from sleep state into a specific active state responsive to the gesture detection or identification which means the home screen of AT can be bypassed entirely and the particular APIs desired by the user can be executed more quickly which saves time and consumes a lower amount of power as compared to loading a default home screen and requiring the user to navigate further. Further while represents an example whereby a starting state is the sleep state and a target state corresponds to one of a plurality of active states it will be appreciated that the start state could be an active state in another embodiment. In this case the active state could either transition to another active state or back into sleep state based on gesture recognition as described above.

Referring to the application processing system A is operating in a low power state in B. The low power state of B can either be considered to be a sleep state or a low power active state. From the low power state of B the application processing system A can be transitioned into one of active states . . . N or alternatively to a deep sleep state with even lower power consumption than the low power state.

Thus in response to a gesture detection that prompts the sensor processor system A to transition the application processing system A into the deep sleep state from the low power state of B the sensor processor system A loads a deep sleep power profile into the power management controller A in B. In an example the loading of the deep sleep power profile in B can correspond to D of . The loading of a power profile may correspond to either an identification of the power profile to the power management controller A which itself stores the available power profiles or alternatively to an actual loading of bits constituting the power profile from memory at the sensor processor system A into memory not shown contained on the power management controller A. In the latter case the power management controller A would not be required to store all of the power profiles but rather only a current power profile being applied or perhaps a set of popular or frequently used power profiles.

After loading the deep sleep power profile into the power management controller A the application processing system A is in deep sleep state B. From deep sleep state B the sensor processor system A may detect a gesture that prompts a transition of the application processing system A back to the low power state in which case the power profile for the low power state is loaded into the management controller A B after which the application processing system B resumes its operation in the low power state or normal sleep state B. While not shown in the application processor system A could also be transitioned directly from the deep sleep state to any of active states . . . N in another embodiment of the invention. For example depending on the platform capability the sensor processor system A can go to deep sleep mode and then periodically wake up to monitor sensors and back to deep sleep mode if no gesture is detected. The application processor system and or the modem subsystem can wake up on their own based on pre defined sleep cycles selected by applications running on the application processor or modem processor. In an example these scheduled wake up modes can be independent of the sensors processor wake up mode.

From the low power state of B the application processing system A may be transitioned into any of active states . . . N based on the type of gesture detected by the sensor processor system A. Accordingly if gesture associated with power profile for active state is detected state B advances to B if gesture associated with power profile for active state is detected state B advances to B and so on such that if a gesture N associated with a power profile N for active state N is detected state B advances to B. In each of B B and B the power profile associated with the detected gesture is loaded into the power management controller A after which the application processing system A enters the associated active state B.

In response to a sleep state gesture detected by the sensor processor system A or a determination by the application processing system A to transition to sleep state state B advances to B loads the low power state profile into the power management controller A and then returns to sleep state B. It is also possible for active state B to transition to a different active state B e.g. as in or D by advancing to B where a different power profile is loaded into the power management controller A for a different active state after which the application processing system A returns to state B for the new active state.

While above described embodiments of the invention in part describe the APIs A of as being controlled or called by the power profile it will be appreciated that these embodiments can be interpreted as the APIs themselves being called or executed or alternatively one or more applications or routines associated with the APIs being called or executed.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methodologies described herein may be implemented by various means depending upon the application. For example these methodologies may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory and executed by a processor unit. Memory may be implemented within the processor unit or external to the processor unit. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other memory and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

If implemented in firmware and or software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Examples include computer readable media encoded with a data structure and computer readable media encoded with a computer program. Non transitory computer readable media includes physical computer storage media. A storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In addition to storage on non transitory computer readable medium instructions and or data may be provided as signals on transmission media included in a communication apparatus. For example a communication apparatus may include a transceiver having signals indicative of instructions and data. The instructions and data are configured to cause one or more processors to implement the functions outlined in the claims. That is the communication apparatus includes transmission media with signals indicative of information to perform disclosed functions. At a first time the transmission media included in the communication apparatus may include a first portion of the information to perform the disclosed functions while at a second time the transmission media included in the communication apparatus may include a second portion of the information to perform the disclosed functions.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

