---

title: Methods and compositions for improving bioavailability of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG)
abstract: Compositions and methods of increasing the bioavailability of catechins are presented. Compositions for increasing the bioavailability of catechins include compositions where the catechin is added to a solution of ethanol and water; compositions where the catechin is encapsulated within a nanoparticle; and compositions in which a nanoparticle complex is formed between the catechin and the nanoparticle. Each of these compositions was shown to increase bioavailability of EGCG and is useful in treating diseases such as Alzheimer's and HIV-associated dementia.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08906414&OS=08906414&RS=08906414
owner: Natura Therapeutics, Inc.
number: 08906414
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100427
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 173 058 entitled Method for Improving Bioavailability of Epigallocatechin Gallate ECGC Through the Use of Nanoparticle Vesicles filed on Apr. 27 2009 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 172 970 entitled Method for Enhancing the Therapeutic Action of Epigallocatechin Gallate ECGC filed Apr. 27 2009 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. 5K08 MH082642 02 awarded by the National Institute of Mental Health NIMH Grant No. R43AT004871 awarded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine NCCAM Grant No. R21AG031037 awarded by the National Institutes on Aging. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to catechins Specifically the invention provides compositions and methods of improving the bioavailability of epigallocatechin gallate EGCG .

The amyloid peptide A is the major constituent of the neuritic plaques that together with the neurofibrillar tangles are physiologic hallmarks of Alzheimer s disease AD . A a 39 43 amino acid peptide is derived from proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein APP a type I integral membrane protein that is expressed ubiquitously. APP can be processed via alternative pathways a non amyloidogenic secretory pathway includes cleavage of APP to soluble APP sAPP by a putative secretase within the sequence of A peptide thus precluding the formation of A whereas the formation of the amyloidogenic A peptides is regulated by the sequential action of and secretases. As the proportion of APP processed by secretase vs. secretase may affect the amount of A produced the regulation of these two pathways may be critically important to the pathogenesis of AD. Proteolyic processing of APP can be regulated by activation of various cell surface receptors coupled to increased activation of second messenger cascades including phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis tyrosine phosphorylation protein kinase C PKC protein kinase A mitogen activated protein kinase protein phosphatase 1 and 2B and calcium.

It has been suggested previously that A toxicity and aggregation involve transition metals oxidative stress and accumulation of reactive oxygen species ROS . It was also shown that A neurotoxicity might be attenuated by numerous antioxidants and iron chelators. Recently an increasing body of evidence points to a wide array of non vitamin antioxidants such as polyphenolic compounds that can scavenge ROS chelate transition metals such as iron and copper and protect cells from oxidative damage. Indeed epigallocatechin 3 gallate EGCG the major polyphenol isolated from green tea was shown in several studies to possess neuroprotective effects against a variety of toxic insults and neuronal injuries.

Over the past decade intense focus has been given to investigating the processes of APP proteolysis and AP metabolism as possible targets for AD therapy Hardy and Selkoe 2002 . Various synthetic and naturally occurring compounds have been analyzed for their efficacy in the modulation of these pathological events. One such naturally occurring compound achieving worldwide popularity for its therapeutic application is green tea. Green tea contains polyphenolic structures categorized as flavonoids which are believed to be the active components accounting for the therapeutic properties of green tea. Arguably one of the most promising green tea compounds being analyzed is epigallocatechin 3 gallate EGCG which has been extensively studied primarily because of its reported anticarcinogenic effects Lin and Liang 2000 Moyers and Kumar 2004 . Recently EGCG has been found to modulate protein kinase C PKC activity and to consequently increase secreted levels of sAPP Levites et al. 2002 Levites et al. 2003 . Additionally EGCG has been shown to inhibit various activities of proinflammatory cytokines Ahmed et al. 2002 Han 2003 Li et al. 2004 . Accordingly signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 and nuclear factor kB responses are inhibited by EGCG Han 2003 Aktas et al. 2004 . Elucidation of these molecular actions of EGCG substantiates the compound as a versatile modulator of cellular responses that may contribute to disease pathogenesis.

EGCG treatment leads to a significant reduction in A production as well as decreased A levels and amyloid plaques in the brain. These effects are associated with increased generation of CTF and sAPP and elevated secretase cleavage activity showing that EGCG promotes the nonamyloidogenic secretase proteolytic pathway both in vitro and in vivo.

As shown above epigallocatechin gallate EGCG has recently gained the attention of scientists for implementation as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of many diseases. Current research suggests that EGCG has implications as a treatment for Alzheimer s disease and HIV associated dementia HAD . The full benefit of EGCG however has yet to be fully realized due to its low bioavailability in vivo.

It has been shown that an oral dose of 800 mg 70 kg day provides approximately 400 ng ml EGCG in human plasma. The inventors have recently shown that the dose of EGCG 1000 2000 ng mL is necessary for promoting APP secretase cleavage in SweAPP N2a cells. Using linear approximation in order to reach plasma concentrations of 1000 ng ml an oral dose of about 1800 mg 70 kg day would be required. From a safety point of view this dose might be unacceptable for clinical trials. Since the oral EGCG dosage in most clinical trials for cancer therapy is typically not more than 800 mg day regimens which enhance EGCG bioavailability effecting reductions in Alzheimer pathology and cognitive decline at minimum doses of EGCG are very desirable. Thus the absolute bioavailability of EGCG is an important issue for oral administration of EGCG to AD clinical trial. It has been previously reported that decreased bioavailability of EGCG is greatly associated with the glucuronidated form which is largely present in the plasma of treated mice. Recently these same researchers further showed that piperine an alkaloid derived from black pepper enhances the bioavailability of EGCG by inhibiting glucuronidation. Unfortunately the consumption of piperine for enhancing for EGCG bioavailability would likely be precluded by the side effects conferred by piperine. Thus what is needed is a method and composition of increasing the bioavailability of EGCG that does not need to be administrated with other compounds and does not confer any unwanted side effects on the patient.

Prevention of amyloidogenic processing of amyloid precursor protein with the use of natural phyotchemicals capable of enhancing alph secretase activity is a therapeutic approach for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer s Disease AD and HIV associated dementia HAD . The inventors have recently shown promising preclinical results with the use of green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin 3 gallate EGCG in mouse models of both diseases however the translation into clinical use has been problematic primarily as a result of poor bioavailability and inefficient delivery to the central nervous system CNS . Importantly EGCG has been shown to possess potent anti inflammatory and antioxidative capacity. The inventors have shown that EGCG is able to modulate the cleavage of amyloid precursor protein APP at the COOH terminal fragment thus preventing beta amyloid plaque formation a hallmark of AD pathology and common finding in HIV infection.

The inventors found that encapsulation of EGCG into nanoparticle liposomes significantly increases it s neuronal SweAPP N2a cells secretase enhancing ability in vitro by approximately 82 P

One embodiment of the present invention relates to a composition for improving the oral bioavailability of EGCG. The composition is a nanoparticle complex comprised of a catechin preferably EGCG which is co solubilized with a lipid carrier to form a nanoparticle complex that is preferably less than 80 nm in size and more preferably between 30 nm and 80 nm in size. The nanoparticle complex is preferably formed of 1 mg of lipid carrier and between about 8 mg and 16 mg of catechin.

A further embodiment of the present invention is a method of increasing the bioavailability of a catechin preferably EGCG through the administration of a nanoparticle complex to treat a neurological disease such as Alzheimer s disease or HIV associated dementia.

In another embodiment of the invention is a composition that is comprised of a catechin preferably EGCG encapsulated within a nanoparticle vesicle preferably a liposome or niosome. The composition is preferably comprised of 1 mg of nanoparticle vesicle and between 8 mg and 16 mg of catechin. Preferably the composition is between 30 nm and 80 nm in size.

A further embodiment of the present invention relates to a method of increasing the bioavailability of a catechin through the encapsulation of the catechin within the nanoparticle vesicle and administering the vesicle containing the catechin to a patient suffering from a neurological disease such as Alzheimer s disease or HIV associated dementia.

A further embodiment of the present invention includes a composition comprising a catechin preferably EGCG and a solution of ethanol and water. Preferably the composition is 90 EGCG and 10 ethanol and water solution.

A further embodiment describes a method of increasing the bioavailability of a catechin preferably EGCG through the solubilization of the catechin in a solution of ethanol and water and administering it to a patient in need thereof. The patient in need thereof can be suffering from Alzheimer s disease and HIV associated dementia HAD bacterial infection virus infection cancer fatty liver disease or hyperlipidemia.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

 Nanoparticle complex refers to a composition in which a drug complexes with but not necessarily encapsulated within a nanoparticle. The nanoparticle is preferably a lipid carrier. In complexing with the lipid carrier the drug becomes part of the nanoparticle as opposed to being encapsulated within the nanoparticle. To form the nanoparticle complex of the present invention a catechin such as EGCG is co solubilized with a lipid carrier to produce nanoparticle complexes of a particular size usually between 30 nm and 80 nm but any complex that is equal to or less than 80 nm can be used.

 Lipid carrier as used herein refers to a nanoparticle that is formed of lipids that is capable of forming a complex with a drug to enhance drug delivery. The lipid carrier can be formed from phospholipids particularly glycerophospholipids or sterols such as cholesterol.

 Nanoparticle vesicle as used herein refers to small bubble like vesicles that may be used as a drug delivery system. The vesicles may be comprised of lipids such as phospholipids cholesterol and non ionic surfactants copolymers biodegradable and biocompatible polymers such as chitosin PLA PLGA and starch. Drugs may be encapsulated within the nanoparticle vesicle to enhance bioavailability of the drug. Nanoparticle vesicles include but are not limited to liposomes niosomes micelles multilamellar vesicles unilamellar vesicles and polymersomes. The nanoparticle vesicles can be between 1 nm and 250 nm generally over 100 nm and can encapsulate the drug to be delivered. These vesicles self assemble during preparation. While the nanoparticle vesicles can range in size those used in the present invention are preferably between 30 nm and 80 nm so as to be able to pass the blood brain barrier.

 Neurological disease as used herein refers to diseases or impairments of the neurological system. The terms neurological disease include but are not limited to diseases such as Alzheimer s disease and HIV associated dementia HAD as well as other dementias.

 Patient is used to describe an animal preferably a human to whom treatment is administered including prophylactic treatment with the compositions of the present invention.

The therapeutically effective amount for purposes herein is thus determined by such considerations as are known in the art. A therapeutically effective amount of the compositions of the present invention is that amount necessary to provide a therapeutically effective result in vivo. The amount of composition must be effective to achieve a response including but not limited to total prevention of e.g. protection against and to improved survival rate or more rapid recovery or improvement or elimination of symptoms associated with neurological diseases such as Alzheimer s disease and HIV associated dementia HAD bacterial infection virus infection cancer fatty liver disease hyperlipidemia or other indicators as are selected as appropriate measures by those skilled in the art. In accordance with the present invention a suitable single dose size is a dose that is capable of preventing or alleviating reducing or eliminating a symptom in a patient when administered one or more times over a suitable time period. One of skill in the art can readily determine appropriate single dose sizes for systemic administration based on the size of a mammal and the route of administration.

 Administration or administering is used to describe the process in which the compositions of the present invention are delivered to a patient. The composition may be administered in various ways including oral as well as parenteral referring to intravenous and intraarterial and other appropriate parenteral routes among others.

Dosages for the nanoparticle vesicle compositions as well as the nanoparticle complexes preferably consist of a ratio of 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11 1 12 1 13 1 14 1 15 and 1 16 with the ratio being 1 mg of nanoparticle vesicle or lipid carrier and between 8 mg and 16 mg of catechin.

Prevention of amyloidogenic processing of amyloid precursor protein with the use of natural phytochemicals capable of enhancing secretase activity can be a therapeutic approach for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer s disease AD and HIV associated dementia HAD . The inventors have recently shown promising preclinical results with the use of green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin 3 gallate EGCG in mouse models of both diseases however the translation into clinical use has been problematic primarily as a result of poor bioavailability and inefficient delivery to the central nervous system CNS . While the antioxidant properties of EGCG are well known the inventors have shown that it is able to promote non amyloidogenic processing of amyloid precursor protein APP by upregulating secretase thus preventing brain beta amyloid plaque formation a hallmark of AD pathology and common finding in HIV infection.

The deterioration malfunction or death of neurons is a common etiological factor in several diseases including Alzheimer s disease AD and HIV associated dementia HAD Alisky 2007 Wojtera et al. 2005 . As the number of elderly individuals continues to rapidly increase neurodegenerative disease marked by progressive loss of mnemonic and higher cortical functions has led to a massive socioeconomic burden which is projected to worsen Tarkowski et al. 2003 . Specifically some 15 of the population greater than 65 years of age suffers from dementia Meeuwsen et al. 2009 . Its presentation is heterogeneous as it is caused by multiple disorders Alzheimer s disease AD and vascular dementia VaD are the two main causes of dementia affecting between 25 45 and 15 35 respectively of all patients suffering from dementia Burns and Iliffe 2009 . Among dementias where brain infectious viruses are etiologic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 HIV 1 associated dementia HAD is the most common cause of dementia Ghafouri et al. 2006 .

The inventors have previously shown that modulation of apoptosis cascades Giunta et al. 2006 2008 and APP amyloid precursor protein processing Obregon et al. 2006 Rezai Zadeh et al. 2005 2009 with the green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin 3 gallate EGCG can be used as therapy in mouse models of AD and HAD. In spite of these preclinical works translating them to a human clinical trial has presented problems primarily as a result of inefficient systemic delivery and bioavailability issues. To achieve maximum response of a neuroprotective agent novel strategies are required to enhance the oral bioavailability of potentially useful agents. The following examples represent novel strategies to enhance the bioavailability of catechins such as EGCG for the prevention and treatment of various diseases.

Epigallocatechin gallate EGCG has recently gained the attention of scientists for implementation as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of many diseases. Current research suggests that EGCG has implications as a treatment for Alzheimer s disease HIV associated dementia HAD bacterium viruses as well as many types of cancer. The full benefit of EGCG however has yet to be fully realized due to its low bioavailability in vivo.

Many researchers have begun to try to address the bioavailability problems that thwart the development of EGCG as a therapeutic as well as an improved dietary supplement for promoting general health. Although potential methods for altering the pharmacokinetics have been identified all of them require either the alteration or co administration of EGCG with other compounds. Implementation of these approaches would consequently increase the cost of production and bring about new safety concerns to an otherwise proven safe natural compound.

Epigallocatechin gallate has been implicated as a potential target for nutraceutical development due to its antioxidant activity chemopreventative activity and its ability to prevent obesity. However the integration of EGCG into existing products has been slow some of which can probably be attributed to the high concentration that is required to achieve therapeutic action because of the low bioavailability in vivo which consequently increases the cost of production unnecessarily since most of the EGCG is eliminated from the body .

Although there is a lingering dogma that alcohol consumption negatively impacts one s health recent research suggests that moderate alcohol consumption can lower the risk of heart disease and is quickly becoming accepted as a way for improving general health and combating some of the problems that commonly arise during aging. The current accepted mechanism for this is that moderate alcohol consumption elevates high density lipoprotein HDL or good cholesterol . HDL is thought to transport cholesterol that otherwise accumulates in the arteries back to the liver for elimination.

Even though it has already been observed that EGCG shows improved solubility in ethanol solutions improved solubility does not always correlate with improved bioavailability. This data is the first to show that EGCG in an alcoholic vehicle does display considerable improvements in the bioavailability. Not only this but it sustains elevated levels of EGCG in the blood over a much longer period of time when compared to EGCG in HO alone. Furthermore recent research illustrates that EGCG is useful to reverse some of the negative effects of alcohol consumption including fatty liver disease.

The inventors have discovered that administration of EGCG suspended in an ethanol plus water solution enhances the action of EGCG. Plasma concentrations were measured in rats that were dosed orally with 90 pure EGCG in a 10 ethanol EtOH plus water HO solution. As shown in significant increases in the bioavailability of EGCG occurred when it is delivered in the EtOH vehicle compared to HO and EGCG alone. Furthermore EGCG in EtOH was tested for its ability to promote alpha secretase activity in vitro using N2A cells that were transfected with the Swedish mutant of APP swAPP a common model for Alzheimer s disease. It was found that the EGCG in EtOH showed increased secretase activity. Not only was there enhanced secretase activity for each concentration that was tested 25 M 3 M but the efficacy of the EGCG EtOH remained drastically higher than EGCG HO at the low concentration 3 M . These results illustrate that alcohol enhances the bioavailability of EGCG pharmokinetically and acts in an additive or synergistic pharmodynamic way to reduce the concentration required to achieve therapeutic action.

Previous studies have shown that EGCG can be used not only as a therapeutic for life threatening diseases like Alzheimer s but that it can also be used as a general health supplement combating age related oxidative damage promoting weight loss preventing the onset of fatty liver disease and more. Given the increased bioavailability of EGCG in combination with alcohol and water alcoholic beverages can be the best suited vehicle for EGCG. Recent studies have shown that alcohol consumption in moderation is can lead to longer life and fewer instances of heart disease. One negative effect of alcohol abuse is fatty liver disease the accumulation of excess triglycerides inside the liver cells. Recent studies have shown that EGCG can be useful as a therapeutic treatment for people with fatty liver disease. The data shows that the combination of EGCG with EtOH can also be used as a prophylactic for alcohol related conditions such as fatty liver disease. Both EGCG and EtOH alone have been found independently to improve lipid profiles by reducing LDL and increasing HDL cholesterol blood levels in both animal and human studies. The combination of EGCG and EtOH can be administered to a patient to treat hyperlipidemia based on the enhanced therapeutic action on lipid profiles.

Since APP processing occurs at the nanoscale nanotechnology can be to specifically diagnose and treat neurodegenerative diseases specifically AD and HAD. Nanoparticles made up of biodegradable and biocompatible polymers such as chitosin PLA PLGA starch etc. Greff et al. 1994 have much evidence to support their safety biocompatibility and ability to modulate the chronicity of polymer degradation and thus release of the incorporated compound.

Antioxidants have gained the attention of researchers around the world both in industry and academia. These compounds are required by the body to scavenge free radicals that would otherwise cause damage at the cellular level. Oxidative stress caused by an imbalance between oxidants and antioxidants has been identified as the major cause in many neurodegenerative diseases cancer and other age related diseases. Although humans produce intrinsic enzymatic antioxidants like superoxide dismutase SOD catalase CAT and glutathione peroxidase the ability to prevent oxidative damage relies heavily on antioxidants obtained from dietary sources. EGCG is a non enzymatic antioxidant having the ability to modulate neuroinflammation in Alzheimer s disease AD pathology and HIV associated dementia HAD .

The inventors utilized an in vitro model for Alzheimer s disease to test the hypothesis that encapsulation would increase the bioactivity of EGCG by promoting secretase activity in cultured SweAPP N2a cells. Additionally this assay was used as a criterion to select the most effective liposome formulations to carry through to the pharmacokinetic pilot study. shows a compilation of all of the liposome formulations against both a water and ethanol control. The cell culture assays are well within the water solubility limitations of EGCG. However the liposomes were prepared for in vivo testing and were much more concentrated in the stock solution. Ethanol was used to solubilize the EGCG and as an important step during the encapsulation process. Therefore it was appropriate to test the liposomes against an ethanol control to rule out any potential gains in alpha secretase activity being due to the alcohol content of the liposome formulations. According to the percent change in sAPP generation in wells with each liposome formulation the 1 8 and 1 16 formulations were most effective and were chosen for the pharmacokinetic analysis. Not only did these formulations show marked increases in sAPP generation but perhaps more importantly they continued to promote elevated levels of alpha secretase activity even at the lowest concentration tested 3 uM.

There have been numerous groups who have reported the very poor oral bioavailability of EGCG. This poor oral bioavailability is mostly due to factors such as poor absorption and intestinal metabolism rather than elimination via first pass metabolism. Liposomes are widely known to increase the absorption of poorly permeable compounds. The results indicate that encapsulation of EGCG is highly effective at increasing the absorption of EGCG into systemic circulation. shows a compilation of the mean pharmacokinetic curves for each liposome formulation tested and the control. Because EGCG is poorly water soluble 10 EtOH was added to fully solubilize the EGCG and ensure accurate dosing in the control. The data shows that the liposome formulations result in drastic increases in absorption of EGCG. also indicates that both liposome formulations were similar in their effectiveness. The control was very poorly absorbed in comparison. The relative bioavailability defined by the AUC of the 1 16 and 1 8 liposomes were 3.89 and 3.62 fold higher than the control respectively.

Green tea derived EGCG 95 purity by HPLC was purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. St Louis Mo. USA . BCA protein assay kit was purchased from Pierce Biotechnology Rockford Ill. USA . Anti human amyloid antibodies 4G8 and 6E10 were obtained from Signet Laboratories Dedham Mass. USA and Biosource International Camarillo Calif. USA respectively.

Liposome preparation was performed as shown in Fountain et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 644 281 herein incorporated in its entirety by reference.

Murine neuroblastoma cells that were stably transfected with the human APP gene APP SweAPP N2a cells were cultured in 24 well tissue culture plates at 1 10cells well n 2 for each condition with 0.5 mL of complete medium MEM medium with 10 fetal calf serum . Prior to treatment the MEM was aspirated and replaced with 0.5 mL of neurobasal media and differentiated with cAMP for 4 hrs. Following differentiation the cells were treated with various liposome formulations and controls 25 uM 3 uM for 18 hours. The conditioned media was collected and sAPP levels quantified using a sAPP ELISA kit in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. Additionally the cell lysate was collected and the total protein content of each well was quantified using a BCA kit in accordance with the manufacturer s instructions.

Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 200 250 g were purchased from Harlan Laboratories Indianapolis Ind. . The rats were purchased pre cannulated by Harlan. The cannulas had a round tip that was surgically implanted into the jugular vein of the rats making multiple blood draws painless to the animal. The rats were food but not water deprived for 18 hours prior to the start of the experiment. The EGCG formulations were delivered via oral gavage at a dosage of 100 mg kg. Blood was drawn at the following time points 0 5 10 30 60 120 240 480 600 2880 minutes. Because a small amount of heparin was kept in the catheter lines to prevent clotting some blood was drawn and discarded before collecting each sample. Approximately 300 L of blood was collected in EDTA tubes for each time point. The samples were kept on ice to preserve their integrity then centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 10 minutes afterwhich the plasma was transferred to sterile centrifuge tubes. A preservative solution was added to each plasma sample at 10 v v concentration to ensure the integrity of the EGCG during storage. This preservative was comprised of 20 ascorbic acid to prevent oxidation of EGCG and 0.1 EDTA to scavenge any metal contaminants . The samples were stored at 80 C. until they were analyzed for EGCG content.

The plasma samples were blinded and sent to be analyzed for EGCG content by the Burnham Institute for Medical Research Pharmacology Core Orlando Fla. . To most accurately quantify the concentration of EGCG in the plasma a previously described method was employed using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry.

Accurately prepared a 2.00 mg mL stock solution in DMSO of EGCG. The standard spiking solutions were prepared by diluting the stock solution to 1000 g mL and 100 g mL using acetonitrile water 1 1 v v . Both solutions were protected from light using amber vials and all solutions were stored at 20 C.

For this analysis two standard curves were prepared one with a higher 10 g ml 0.100 g ml dynamic range the other a lower 1000 ng ml 10 ng ml . Both standard curves were prepared using the appropriate blank rat plasma containing the preservative. The results indicated that the standard curve performance was within acceptable range for bioanalytical method acceptance R 0.99 .

The inventors investigated the ability of preformulation methods to improve the oral bioavailability of EGCG. It was found that forming nanolipidic EGCG particles improves the neuronal SweAPP N2a cells secretase enhancing ability in vitro by up to 91 P

Nanoparticles and larger liposomes have been investigated extensively for increasing the oral bioavailability of poorly absorbed compounds Frezard et al. 2008 He et al. 2007 Kumar et al. 2007 Pandey et al. 2005 Rao et al. 2008 . It has been recently reported that encapsulating EGCG into liposomes can improve its anti cancer efficacy Siddiqui et al. 2009 and antioxidant capacity Italia et al. 2008 . However these studies utilized larger diameter particles 100 nm and focused primarily on improved efficacy of EGCG for specific disease modifying parameters. The inventors have tested the ability of small diameter nanolipidic particle formation as a method for increasing not only the secretase inducing ability of EGCG but also its oral bioavailability. These nanoparticles NanoEGCG differ from traditional liposomes because they do not require micelle formation. Rather they are drug lipid complexes. This enables the formation of smaller diameter particles that are useful for increasing the oral bioavailability of EGCG.

It has been shown that an oral dose of 800 mg 70 kg day provides approximately 400 ng ml EGCG in human plasma Chow et al. 2001 . Given that the inventors have recently shown that 1000 2000 ng mL of free EGCG is necessary for promoting APP secretase cleavage in SweAPP N2a cells Rezai Zadeh et al. 2005 using linear approximation an oral dose of EGCG of 1800 mg 70 kg day would be required to reach therapeutically effective plasma concentrations of EGCG. From a safety and practicality point of view this dose might be unacceptable for clinical trials Ullmann et al. 2004 2003 . Since the oral EGCG dosage in most clinical trials for cancer therapy is typically not more than 800 mg day Chow et al. 2001 regimens which enhance EGCG bioavailability effecting reductions in neuropathology and cognitive decline at minimum doses are very desirable. Thus the bioavailability of EGCG is an important issue for oral administration of EGCG to clinical trials.

It has been previously reported that decreased bioavailability of EGCG is greatly associated with the glucuronidated form which is largely present in the plasma of treated mice Lambert et al. 2003 . Additionally it has been shown that piperine an alkaloid derived from black pepper enhances the bioavailability of EGCG by inhibiting glucuronidation Lambert et al. 2004 . Unfortunately the consumption of piperine also influences the metabolism of all other ingested food and drugs Khajuria et al. 2002 . For example it increases the plasma concentration of phenytoin Pattanaik et al. 2006 propanalol and theophylline in healthy volunteers Bano et al. 1991 and plasma concentrations of rifamipicin Rifampin in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis Zutshi et al. 1985 . By forming EGCG nanolipidic complexes it is possible to increase the oral bioavailability of EGCG as well as its AD and HAD preventative and therapeutic actions without affecting the absorption of other ingested compounds. This is an important factor to consider when bringing an EGCG therapeutic into the clinical setting.

The inventors modified EGCG such that it requires no co administration of other drugs. Rather it is co solubilized with a lipid carrier using proprietary methodology to form 30 80 nm diameter nanoparticle complexes. The importance of particle diameter for drug delivery is particularly important for delivery of drugs to the brain Wissing et al. 2004 . Previously even smaller diameter liposomes 100 nm have had trouble penetrating the tight junctions between the endothelial cells of the blood brain barrier without osmotic disruption Sakamoto and Ido 1993 . This highlights an important distinction between this nanoparticle technology and previous liposomal technologies which require micelle formation. NanoEGCG does not involve encapsulating the EGCG into a micelle. Instead lipid EGCG complexes are formed. Because the EGCG is not fully encased in a micelle structure it is possible to achieve smaller diameter particles without compromising the stability of the carrier. While the inventors have demonstrated the ability of nanoparticles to increase the systemic absorption of EGCG taken orally the small diameter of these particles leads to improved blood brain barrier penetration.

Nanolipidic particles are useful for safely translating EGCG into human clinical trials. Not only did NanoEGCG more than double the oral bioavailability of EGCG in rats but also was more effective at promoting secretase activity in vitro even at reduced concentrations . Taken together NanoEGCG is therapeutically effective at doses that would be considered acceptable in the clinical setting.

The BCA protein assay kit was purchased from Pierce Biotechnology Rockford Ill. USA . Antihuman amyloid antibodies 4G8 and 6E10 were obtained from Signet Laboratories Dedham Mass. USA and Biosource International Camarillo Calif. USA respectively.

Nanolipidic particles NanoEGCG were prepared using a proprietary co solubilization methodology involving use of monophasic liquid preparations developed by Nature s Defense Systems Tampa Fla. The particles were prepared according to the methods described in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 644 281 to Fountain herein incorporated in its entirety by reference. As described in Fountain in preparing the monophasic liquid preparations a precursor solution is made by solubilizing an amphipathic material in a first quantity of a non aqueous solvent appropriate to solubilize the amphipathic material to form a first mixture. The amphipathic material may comprise phospholipids PL in a mixture of the following phosphatides phosphatidylcholine PC phosphatidylethanolamine PE phosphatidic acid PA and phosphatidylinositol PI at a ratio of PC PE PA PI of 6.5 2.5 0.7 0.3 in ethanol. Preferably one gram of PL is solubilized in 5.0 7.5 ml of ethanol solvent. After dissolution of the amphipathic material a quantity of water is added to form a turbid suspension. The amount of water to add is approximately 9 kg to 31 kg of dissolved amphipathic material but can be varied to result in the desired turbid suspension. A second quantity of non aqueous solvent such as ethanol is added until the turbid suspension is monophasic and has optical clarity at room temperature. This resulting product is a precursor solution which is shelf stable over time. These particles have a defined size range from 30 to 80 nm. Six nanoparticle formulations were prepared for the study with various ratios of lipid carrier to EGCG. Formulations prepared for this study were 1 1 1 2 1 4 1 8 1 16 1 32 Nanocarrier material to EGCG on a mg mg basis . To form NanoEGCG co solubilization methodology involving use of monophasic liquid preparations were employed with proprietary starting materials. These materials are first solubilized into a water in ethanol solution step 1 . Anhydrous EGCG was added to the materials in step 1 and co solubilized by mixing at room temperature step 2 . NanoEGCG particles were formed by the addition of distilled water while mixing materials step 3 . The final preparation of NanoEGCG particles was stirred for an additional 10 min prior to subjecting the preparation to sizing analysis with a Wyatt DynaPro Multiwell Reader Wyatt Technology Corporation Santa Barbara Calif. .

Murine neuroblastoma cells that were stably transfected with the human APP gene APP SweAPP N2a cells were cultured in 24 well tissue culture plates at 1 105 cells well n 2 for each condition with 0.5 mL of complete medium MEM medium with 10 fetal calf serum . Prior to treatment the MEM was aspirated and replaced with 0.5 mL of neurobasal media and differentiated with cAMP for 4 h. Following differentiation the cells were treated with various nanoparticle formulations and controls 25 3 M for 18 h. Controls included two formulations of EGCG without a lipid carrier one dissolved in water and another in ethanol and water at the same ratio that the nanoparticles were formed described above . The conditioned media was collected and sAPP levels were quantified using a sAPP sandwich ELISA protocol as previously described Bailey et al. 2008 . High binding 96 well plates Nunc Denmark were coated with monoclonal antibody 22C11 diluted in 100 L 1 g mL of carbonate buffer pH 9.6 and incubated overnight at 4 C. The plate was washed five times with PBS Tween buffer 0.05 Tween 20 and blocked with 300 L of blocking buffer 1 BSA and 5 Horse Serum in PBS for 2 h at 37 C. Synthetic sAPP protein Abgent San Diego Calif. was used as the positive control for this ELISA. All samples were analyzed in duplicate. 100 L samples of conditioned media were added to each well of the plate. The plate was incubated for 2 h at 37 C. After washing five times 100 L of goat anti human antibody 6E10 Biosource diluted 1 3000 in reagent diluent was added to each well of the plate. Following 2 h incubation at 37 C. and five times washing 100 L of anti goat IgG conjugated with HRP 1 1500 was added to each well of the plate. The plate was incubated for 1 h at 37 C. Following five times washing 100 L of substrate solution TMB was added to each well and plate was incubated at room temperature. Twenty minutes later 50 L of stop solution 2N H2SO4 was added to each well of the plate. The optical density was determined using a microplate reader at 450 nm. Data were reported as ng of sAPP mg of total intracellular protein produced per well. Total intracellular protein was quantified using a BCA kit Pierce Biotechnology Rockford Ill. in accordance with the manufacturer s instructions.

Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 200 250 g were purchased from Harlan Laboratories Indianapolis Ind. . The rats were precannulated by Harlan. The rounded tip catheters were surgically implanted into the jugular vein of the rats making multiple precise blood draws painless to the animal. The rats were food not water deprived for 18 h prior to the start of the experiment. The EGCG formulations were delivered via oral gavage at a dosage of 100 mg EGCG kg body weight. Blood was collected at the following time points 0 5 10 30 60 120 240 and 480 min. Because heparin was kept in the catheter lines to prevent clotting a small amount of blood was drawn and discarded before collecting each sample. Approximately 300 L of blood was collected in EDTA tubes for each time point. The samples were kept on ice to preserve their integrity then centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 10 min after which the plasma was transferred to sterile centrifuge tubes. A preservative solution was added to each plasma sample at 10 v v concentration to ensure the integrity of the EGCG during storage Lambert et al. 2006a . This preservative was comprised of 20 ascorbic acid to prevent oxidation of EGCG and 0.1 EDTA to scavenge any metal contaminants . The samples were stored at 80 C. until they were analyzed for EGCG content.

The plasma samples were blinded and sent to be analyzed for EGCG content by the Burnham Institute for Medical Research Pharmacology Core Orlando Fla. . To accurately quantify the concentration of EGCG in the plasma a previously described method was employed using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry Sparidans et al. 2007 Wang and Miksa 2007 Wang et al. 2004 2000 .

Accurately prepared a 2.00 mg mL stock solution in DMSO of EGCG. The standard spiking solutions were prepared by diluting the stock solution to 1000 and 100 g mL using acetonitrile water 1 1 v v . Both solutions were protected from light using amber vials and all solutions were stored at 20 C.

For this analysis two standard curves were prepared one with a higher 10 0.100 g ml dynamic range the other a lower 1000 10 ng ml . Both standard curves were prepared using the appropriate blank rat plasma containing the preservative. The results indicated that the standard curve performance was within acceptable range for bioanalytical method acceptance R2 0.99 Sparidans et al. 2007 Wang and Miksa 2007 Wang et al. 2000 .

Mean plasma EGCG concentrations the standard error in the mean SEM were calculated using GraphPad PRISM software GraphPad Software Inc. . Pharmacokinetic graphs and parameters were determined using GraphPad PRISM. Pharmacokinetic parameters included Cmax Tmax area under curve AUC and relative bioavailiblity. Relative bioavailability was determined by dividing the AUC of each NanoEGCG formulation by the AUC of the control.

A two way ANOVA was performed using GraphPad PRISM software GraphPad Software Inc. . This was followed by Bonferonni post tests to assess the significance of each NanoEGCG formulation versus the EGCG 10 Et0H H2O control at each concentration.

A two way ANOVA was performed using GraphPad PRISM software GraphPad Software Inc. . This was followed by Bonferonni post tests to assess the significance of the 1 16 NanoEGCG formulation versus the EGCG 10 Et0H H2O control at each time point.

The inventors utilized an in vitro model for Alzheimer s disease to show that formation of nanoparticle complexes would increase the bioactivity of EGCG by promoting secretase activity in cultured SweAPP N2a cells. These cells overproduce human APP making them ideal for screening compounds that modulate APP processing Obregon et al. 2006 . shows the mean ng of sAPP per mg of total protein produced standard deviation for all EGCG formulations. Because ethanol was used to solubilize the lipid carrier and EGCG during the NanoEGCG productions process it was appropriate to include a similarly formulated EGCG solution 10 EtOH solution v v to rule out any potential gains in secretase activity being due to the alcohol content of the nanoparticle formulations.

As shown in not all NanoEGCG formulations were effective. In fact the 1 1 and 1 2 formulations were outperformed by the EGCG and 10 Et0H H2O control at all concentrations tested. The 1 8 and 1 16 NanoEGCG formulations were selected to be advanced to the pharmacokinetics phase of the study because they outperformed the control at all concentrations tested. The 1 8 formulation was statistically significant at all concentrations whereas the 1 16 was only statistically significant at the lower two concentrations. Not only did these formulations show marked increases in sAPP generation but perhaps more importantly they continued to promote enhanced levels of secretase activity even at the lowest EGCG concentration tested.

There have been numerous groups to report the poor oral bioavailability of EGCG Feng 2006 Cai et al. 2002 Chan et al. 2007 Henning et al. 2008 Lambert et al. 2004 2006b Lin et al. 2007 Zhang et al. 2004 . Recent reports suggest that this poor oral bioavailability is mostly due to factors such as poor absorption and intestinal metabolism rather than elimination via first pass metabolism Cai et al. 2002 . Larger lipid based bilayer delivery systems have been shown to increase the absorption of poorly permeable compounds Allen 1998 . The inventors evaluated the ability of proprietary lipid nanoparticle complexes to increase the oral bioavailability of EGCG in rats. The results indicate that nanoparticles are highly effective at increasing the absorption of EGCG into systemic circulation. shows a compilation of the mean pharmacokinetic curves for the nanoparticle formulation tested and the control. Because EGCG is poorly water soluble 10 EtOH was added to fully solubilize the EGCG at a concentration equivalent to the NanoEGCG stock 50 mg ml and ensure accurate dosing in the control. The data shows that the nanoparticle formulations result in substantial increases in the absorption of EGCG. Although indicates only one NanoEGCG curve both 1 8 and 1 16 formulations were tested. However both nanoparticle formulations were similarly absorbed and not statistically different so the 1 16 preparation was selected to represent the NanoEGCG pharmacokinetic curve. The control was very poorly absorbed in comparison to the NanoEGCG. Statistical significance P

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall there between. Now that the invention has been described 

