---

title: Animal restraint device and method
abstract: An animal restraining device and method provide dual capability for restraining an animal and administering medications. A first embodiment provides an administration tube connected to a body with handles which can be grasped by user to position the device either for restraining or administering medications. A second embodiment is a continuous hook-shaped member having a hollow passageway in order to introduce medications. The second embodiment is reversible to place either end of the device in the animal's mouth for restraining or administering medications, depending upon the size of the particular animal. The method of restraint includes positioning the device in the animal's mouth and applying a force to elicit a natural response by the animal which causes the animal to pause or remain motionless for a period of time while a caregiver may treat or examine the animal. Third and fourth embodiments of the device include opposing hook portions that can be used to hook or secure the leg of an animal prior to administering medications. The opposing hook portion has an end opposite curvature as opposed to the hook or curved form between the administration tube and body of the first embodiment, and an opposite curvature as compared to the hook shaped second embodiment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08448609&OS=08448609&RS=08448609
owner: Ritchey Manufacturing Company
number: 08448609
owner_city: Brighton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100601
---
This application is a continuation in part application of co pending application Ser. No. 12 684 737 filed Jan. 8 2010 entitled ANIMAL RESTRAINT DEVICE AND METHOD which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to devices and methods used to restrain animals such as livestock and more particularly to an animal restraint device and method in which livestock can be restrained for purposes of treatment and evaluation by caregivers. The device is hand held for placement within the animal s mouth to restrain the animal and the device also providing a feature for administering medications to the animal.

Domestic animals to include livestock such as cattle sheep and horses must undergo periodic medical evaluations and treatments to maintain the animals in optimum health. While horses may be easier to medically examine without restraint other domesticated animals such as cattle are more difficult to examine and treat without confining the animal within a cattle chute.

There are a number of inventions in the field of cattle chutes for purposes of restraining animals. Many newer chute designs are particularly directed to capturing and holding the head of the animal so that a caregiver may conduct a medical examination and or administer medications.

One principle drawback to many cattle chutes is that they are relatively expensive for purchase by many cattle growers particularly in developing countries. Therefore most cattle growers in those developing countries do not have access to cattle chutes that are capable of immobilizing the head of the animal. Another drawback to many cattle chutes is that an animal s natural instinct is not to be confined and therefore the animal can be injured as it struggles to free itself from capture. Yet another drawback with many cattle chutes is the inability to administer solid or liquid medications without the use of an esophagus probe since the animal may otherwise not cooperate in opening its mouth and swallowing the medication.

One example of a prior art device for administering medications is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 593. This invention provides an esophagus probe for delivery of treatment doses of material to animals such as livestock directly into the animal s esophagus. The probe is characterized by a hook shaped conduit that has a straightened mouth insert portion or stem a U shaped metal portion and a handle portion. The mouth insert portion terminates in a delivery nozzle. The handle connects to a flexible hose which in turn connects to a containment vessel containing a nutrient or medicament material to be dispensed such as by a pump.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 050 460 discloses a liquid feed injector for young animals and particularly calves. The injector includes a collapsible reservoir and a rigid probe or feed tube connected by a relatively short length of flexible tubing. A fitting or closure cup for the reservoir has an outlet nipple about which the flexible tube is attached. The flexible tube acts as a shut off valve during manipulation for placing the tube in the animal s throat. The reservoir may be flattened or rolled during discharge of the fluid.

The U.S. Pat. No. 4 773 898 discloses a device for orally administering treatment liquids to animals. The device comprises a hollow loop serving as a flow conduit between a container of treatment liquid and a flexible nozzle mounted on one side of the loop adapted to direct a jet flow of the liquid toward the back of the animal s throat. The loop has a geometry close to that of an equilateral triangle the corners of which adjacent the side that carries the nozzle being rounded whereby the loop may be clamped firmly on the nose of the animal without inflicting pain.

In addition to devices that may be used to administer liquid or solid medicaments to animals there are also a number of prior art devices that may be used to control the movement of an animal. U.S. Pat. No. 5 960 747 discloses an animal leg catching device for catching an animal by the leg including a pole and first and second U shaped members. The free end of a first arm portion of the first U shape member is inserted into a distal end of the pole. A first arm portion of the second U shaped member is rotatably coupled to a second arm portion of the first U shaped member at a point on the first arm portion of the second U shaped member adjacent to cross portion of the second U shaped member. The ends of a resiliently elastic strap are coupled to the first arm portion of the first U shaped member such that the elastic strap forms a generally U shaped loop. One end of a flexible cable is coupled to the elastic strap at the loop of the elastic strap. While this invention may be adequate for controlling the legs of an animal the device does not also have the capability to administer medicaments to the animal.

While these inventions may be adequate for their intended purpose there is still a need for a device that can be used to not only to administer medications to an animal but also provides a means to control the animal without requiring the animal s head to be captured within a restraining assembly of the chute as found in the more complex and expensive cattle chutes. There is yet another need to provide a manually operated restraining device that is effective simple to use and provides a degree of safety for both the user and the animal. These needs and other advantages of the present invention are described in detail below in reference to the device and method of the present invention.

There is also a need for a device that provides a means to first control the animal without having a user hold the device but the device may then be subsequently used to administer medications to an animal.

The present invention provides a device and method for restraining an animal as well as a device and method for administering medications or to otherwise treat an animal.

In a first embodiment of the invention a hand held device is provided including a body with a pair of handles that are grasped by the user. The body includes a linear or straight portion and a forward curved portion. Forward and rear handles are formed on the curved and straight portions respectfully. A reverse projecting administration tube attaches to the forward curved portion of the body. The administration tube and body are connected at an angle that facilitates the user being able to stand in a position to easily insert the administration tube into the animal s mouth and then to apply a force to the device to lodge the administration tube at a selected location in the animal s mouth.

One important principle of the present invention is the effect that the administration tube has upon the animal. The administration tube is of a selected length so that the distal end of the tube can be placed at two advantageous functional positions. The first position is placement of the tube distal end between the lips and back teeth at the corner of the animal s mouth. The second position is placement of the tube distal end at the base of the animal s tongue at the entrance of the throat but not within the esophagus. Placement of the device in the first position coupled with application of a directed force by the user to forcibly lodge the tube distal end in the corner of the animal s mouth elicits a natural response from the animal to pause and be still. This pause reaction by the animal causes the animal to cease moving or thrashing allowing a caregiver to conduct an examination or to otherwise treat or observe the animal. Placement of the device in the second position coupled with the application of force elicits a similar response from the animal however more of a gagging response in which the animal will also cease from violent thrashing. In the second position the tube is presented at an advantageous location in the animal s mouth for administration of solid or liquid medicaments. In either position placement of the administration tube results in the animal maintaining a temporary still or pre occupied state which provides a caregiver enough time to either administer medications through the administration tube or to examine the animal.

Because the device is manually operated the user can apply a selected amount of force to settle the animal based upon the disposition of the particular animal. The angle between the administration tube and body provides an adequate offset orientation for the user such that the user does not have to place any part of his her body within the chute which is quite advantageous for safety purposes. The user can stand away from the animal a safe distance yet can easily apply the necessary force to elicit the pause response from the animal.

In another embodiment of the present invention the device takes the form of a hollow U shaped member in which a distal end of the device is selectively placed in either the first or second position. If it is desired to administer medications then the material is passed through the entire length of the device since the device is a hollow tubular member. Both ends of the device may have an attached enlargement such as a bulbous tip. The bulbous or blunt tip helps to prevent injury to the animal as well as to provide a handle or gripping means for the user. This second embodiment is reversible meaning that either end of the device may be inserted within the mouth of the animal depending upon the depth to which the device must be placed within the animal to correctly place the device in the animal s mouth. Therefore two sizing options are provided in the second embodiment with reference to the depth to which the device is inserted in the animal s mouth.

According to the method of the first and second embodiments of the present invention a manually operated device is manipulated by the user to place the device within a desired location in the animal s mouth. The user applies a force generally in a rearward direction to capture the attention of the animal for purposes of administering medications or to otherwise settle the animal for examination purposes.

In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention the hand held device includes an opposing hook portion formed at the end opposite of the reverse projecting administration tube. This opposing hook portion can be used to capture the leg of the animal while the end of the device having the administration tube can be secured to an object such as a fence post to initially control the animal in preparation for treatment of the animal. The orientation of the administration tube forms a hook enabling it to be secured to an object such as the fence post.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the opposing hook portion may also be incorporated on the opposite end of the embodiment having the hollow U shaped member. In this embodiment the opposing hook portion forms an extension that is also hollow enabling medications to be administered through the opposing hook portion and out the opposite end through the opening formed at the distal end of the U shaped member. In this embodiment the opposing hook portion can be secured to the animal s leg while the U shaped member at the opposite end may be secured for example to an object such as a fence post.

According to the method of the third and fourth apparatus embodiments the device is used to capture the animal by routing the opposing hook portion around the leg of the animal and securing the opposite end of the device to an object to hold the animal. After the animal has been captured and held still the device can be removed from the around the animal s leg and placed in the animals mouth to administer medications through the administration tube or through the hollow channel of the device.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures that illustrate by way of preferred embodiments the basic principles of the present invention.

Referring to the device is shown in the first embodiment. The device comprises a body having two primary components namely a straight or linear portion and a forward curved portion . As shown portions and are continuous. A rear handle is formed at a rear end of the device and a forward handle protrudes from the body at a location essentially bisecting the straight portion and curved portion . The body may be made of a steel tubular member or bar in which the handle is formed by bending the end of the tube. Other materials can also be considered such as plastic or fiberglass. The forward handle may be a separate piece welded to the body. A reverse projecting administration tube connects to the free end of the forward curved portion . The administration tube can also be formed from a steel tubular member. The administration tube has a proximal end which may receive implements for administering medications as further explained below. The distal end of the administration tube is placed at a desired location within the animal s mouth. The straight portion extends at a desired angle A with respect to the axis y y of the administration tube . This angle A enables a user to be offset from the animal a safe distance yet still allows the user to apply an effective rearward force once the device is placed in the animal s mouth. This angle A may be for example approximately 25 degrees.

Referring to a cross sectional view is provided of an animal s lower jaw in order to illustrate the two principal positions of the device in use. The lower jaw as illustrated includes back teeth front teeth lips and corners of the mouth. The tongue extends between the teeth. The first position is shown in in which the distal end of the administration tube is placed between the back teeth and lip of the animal at the corner of the mouth . The positioning of the device at this location elicits the natural response of the animal to pause or be still. This pausing or stillness which the device elicits from the animal allows a caregiver to subsequently examine or otherwise treat the animal. The placement of the device at this location in the animal s mouth also enables the user to apply considerable force F in the rearward direction without harming the animal. The anatomy of a cow s mouth at this location is capable of withstanding the force F without substantially damaging the mouth tissues.

The second principal position of the device is shown in in which the distal end of the device is placed at the back or base of the tongue at the entrance to the throat but not within the animal s esophagus. This location elicits a gagging response by the animal which also causes the animal to pause or be still allowing the caregiver to conduct his her work. At the appropriate time if medications are to be provided the device may be placed in this second position and the push rod or syringe can be used to administer the medications or nutrients. Because the medication nutrient will enter the animal s mouth at the back of the tongue at the entrance to the throat the animal will not be capable of spitting up the medication and the medication will travel naturally through the throat into the animal s esophagus. It should be understood that the device can be placed at either side of the mouth at either corner thereby providing the user a choice on which side of the animal to stand.

Unlike many prior art esophagus probes that place a tube in the esophagus to deliver medications the present invention provides increased safety for the animal because the device is much less intrusive and does not involve potential damage to the animal s esophagus and throat by misplacement of the device. Use of the device elicits a natural response from the animal to cause the animal to be preoccupied and still which further enhances the ability to easily administer medications to the animal. The embodiment of provides an additional advantage in that the medication only has to travel through a very short distance within the device namely the administration tube as opposed to having to pass through the entire length of the device as is the requirement in many prior art devices.

Referring to a second embodiment of the invention is shown as device . In the second embodiment the device is U shaped or hook shaped with one end or leg of the U shape extending beyond the other leg. The device is hollow and has a continuous passageway that extends through the device. The device can be made from tubular steel or another selected material such as reinforced plastic or fiberglass. The device has a straight or linear portion and a curved portion that may traverse an angle of approximately 180 degrees. The device has blunted ends as provided by bulb shaped attachments and secured at each end of the device. A bore extends through each of the attachments for mounting of the attachments to the ends of the device. The attachments and have two functions. The attachment placed in the mouth helps to prevent damage to the mouth tissue by providing a blunt and smooth surface in contact with the tissue. The opposite attachment serves as a handle for grasping by the user. The passageway may receive a flexible tube such as tube attached to a syringe to administer liquid medicaments. If a solid medication such as a bolus is to be administered the bolus can be introduced through the passageway by use of a flexible rod not shown inserted through the passageway to push the bolus out through the opposite end of the passageway.

According to the method applicable to the first and second apparatus embodiments of the present invention the device is grasped by the user U and the user works the distal end of the device into the animal s mouth and places the device preferably in either of the first or second positions. If it is only necessary to restrain the animal then the user may choose the first position. If the user wishes to administer medications then the user may choose the second position. The user grasps the handle s of the device at an offset location with respect to the cattle chute and applies the necessary force F to lodge the device in the animal s mouth and to elicit the pause reaction from the animal to maintain the animal in a preoccupied state. The user may also position and reposition the device between the first and second positions depending upon the treatment being provided to the animal.

The device and method of the present invention provide a simple yet effective means to control an animal during treatment and evaluation. The device can be used with any type of cattle chute and is easily manipulated by a user in a safe manner. The first embodiment provides two handles and a protruding administration tube for introducing medications through a relatively short passageway. The second embodiment provides a somewhat simpler construction and a reversibility option in that either end of the device can be inserted within the animal s mouth depending upon the size and type of animal.

Referring to the plan view of another device is illustrated that is the same as the device illustrated in the first embodiment but further including an opposing hook portion that can be used to capture the animal s leg. As shown the opposing hook portion forms an extension located at the rear handle . The hook portion includes an off set extension a rear curved portion or hook and a linear or straight end extension . The rear hook or curved portion is configured so that the free end of the rear hook portion is spaced closer to the off set extension thereby forming a constriction or narrowing gap as compared to the gap located on both sides of the end . A gap or space receives the leg of the animal. The free end of the extension may include a bulb shaped attachment . The other reference numbers shown for the device correspond to the same elements in the first embodiment namely straight portion forward curved portion rear handle forward handle and the administration tube .

Referring to a fourth embodiment of the device is illustrated in which the second embodiment further includes the attached hook portion . In this embodiment the hook portion may also be hollow thereby creating a continuous passageway through the entire length of the device enabling medications to be administered through an opening in the bulb shaped attachment and into the passageway . In this embodiment the straight or linear portion includes a forward handle . The free end of the forward handle may include a bulb shaped attachment . To facilitate a user s grasp on and control over the device the straight or linear portion may further include a rear handle and a middle handle . The other reference numbers shown for the device correspond to the same elements of the other embodiments namely off set extension a rear curved portion or hook a free end and a linear or straight end extension .

Preferably the hook portion is made of a resilient material which enables a user of moderate strength to be able to pull the end extension away from the offset extension . The material may be for example a thermoplastic or a metallic material.

The invention also contemplates simultaneous use of two devices. One device can be used to hold the animal s leg while another device can be placed in the animal s mouth to still the animal and or to administer medicaments.

Although the third and fourth embodiments of do not illustrate these embodiments in combination with a push rod or a syringe and flexible tube it should be understood that these devices for administering medications through the devices can used in the same manner as describe with respect to the other embodiments. For example a flexible push rod may be routed through the hollow interior of the device to administer a pill to an animal or a flexible tube may be placed into the hollow interior of the device to administer a liquid medicament.

Although the invention has been described particularly with respect to cattle it shall be understood that the device can be used with any animal to include sheep goats horses or even other domesticated or wild animals. It is believed that most animals will exhibit some form of the pause response once the device is placed in the mouth.

While the present invention has been sent forth with respect to preferred embodiments it shall be understood that various other changes and modifications to the invention can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention commensurate with the scope of the claims appended hereto.

