---

title: Entertainment companion content application for interacting with television content
abstract: Methods and system for providing companion content at a secondary device for a content being rendered on a main device includes establishing a connection between the secondary device and a device that interfaces with the main device so as to enable the secondary device to access and control the content being rendered on the main device. The method further includes detecting data associated with the content being rendered on the main device through the connection, wherein the data includes metadata associated with the content rendered on the main device. The metadata is communicated to a remote application over the internet. The remote application is configured to analyze the metadata to produce communication content that relates to the content rendered on the main device. Companion content for the content being rendered on the main device is obtained from the remote application and rendered on the secondary device while the content is rendering on the main device. The analysis of the metadata detects changes in the content being rendered on the main device which results changes in the obtained companion content that is rendered on the secondary device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793730&OS=08793730&RS=08793730
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08793730
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
The present invention relates to the field of computer and television entertainment and more particularly to providing companion content on a companion device where the companion content relates to content being watched on a main display.

With the exponential growth of computing and networking television TV viewing has evolved significantly over the years. This evolution has brought a number of technologies that allow users to select programming content and stream content on demand. Some programming content is pre set to a schedule by media providers while other content can be downloaded for instant viewing. Traditionally media provider companies provide their own devices i.e. cable satellite internet and deliver access to the various content options based on the user s selected service level.

As more users connect to the internet using broadband connections many new media providing companies have entered the space. These companies provide applications and sometimes devices which unlock access to a wide array of media such as movies television shows sports etc.

Although these new devices provide access to the media the level of interactivity is still rather static. If interactivity is provided the interactivity is limited to selection of shows and other functions found on traditional digital video recorders DVRs . Thus although internet access has been widely added to DVR type devices the internet is still used generally to obtain programming data set programming and recordings and to trigger downloading of on demand programs.

Embodiments of the present invention describe methods and systems that provide companion content associated with content rendered on a main device at a secondary device. The presentation of the companion content is tied to content being viewed on the main device content that has been previously viewed on the main device or content determined to be similar to what has been viewed on the main device. In one embodiment the secondary device executes an application that establishes a connection between the secondary device and a device e.g. set top box device module connected TV e.g. TV having a processor memory logic and internet access that interfaces with the main device i.e. TV display . Additionally the application on the secondary device is capable of communicating with a server over the internet. The server executes a remote application that interacts with the application executing on the secondary device. The application on the server is configured to provide additional content to the secondary device. The additional content obtained from the server is in someway related to the content being viewed on the main device related to content previously viewed on the main device or content that augments the content being shown on the main device.

In one embodiment an algorithm of the application of the secondary device will detect data about the content being rendered on the main device. The detected data can be in the form of metadata associated with content being watched on the main device. In such an example the metadata can identify various levels of detail regarding the content being watched. The details can include the title of the show or program being watched the timestamp of content being watched the actions occurring in the content being watched e.g. live or recorded as well as pausing data recording data and other data. This metadata is therefore continuously analyzed or periodically analyzed by the algorithm on the local application of the secondary device and the application of the server. Based on the analysis the secondary device will receive the companion content for rendering while the user watches on the display of the main device.

In one embodiment the algorithm is partially executed on the secondary device and partially executed on the server. Thus the secondary device will communicate with the server and based on logic executed on the server will return companion content to display on the secondary device. In one embodiment the gathered companion content is formatted and rendered at the secondary device while the content is being rendered on the main device. As noted above the algorithm whether fully or partially executed on the server will generate the companion content based on one or a combination of currently viewed content previously viewed content recommended content viewing history viewing history of users having similar viewing habits combinations thereof etc.

The application executing on the server and the secondary device enable dynamic rendering and refreshing of companion content at the secondary device that is tied to the content being rendered on the main device. Interaction with the companion content that is being dynamically presented and refreshed is possible. The changes in presented companion content is in one embodiment occurring based on what content is being watched on the main device. The interaction will also provide links to the internet to obtain additional information participate in some networking with others communicate with other users etc. Additionally the use of the secondary device to render some of the content frees up the main device for rendering the content enriching user s TV viewing while also enhancing the viewing experience by providing additional information without sacrificing display space on the main device.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways such as methods systems and an apparatus. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

In one embodiment a method for providing companion content at a secondary device for a content being rendered on a main device is disclosed. The method includes establishing a connection between the secondary device and a device that interfaces with the main device so as to enable the secondary device to access and control the content being rendered on the main device. The method further includes detecting data associated with the content being rendered on the main device through the connection wherein the data includes metadata associated with the content rendered on the main device. The metadata is communicated to a remote application over the internet. The remote application is configured to analyze the metadata to produce communication content that relates to the content rendered on the main device. Companion content for the content being rendered on the main device is obtained from the remote application and rendered on the secondary device while the content is rendering on the main device. The analysis of the metadata detects changes in the content being rendered on the main device which results changes in the obtained companion content that is rendered on the secondary device.

In another embodiment a method for generating companion content for a secondary device based on content being rendered on a main device having a display is disclosed. The method includes detecting execution of a local application on the secondary device. The local application establishes a wireless connection between the secondary device and a device that interfaces with the main device. The local application connects to an application programming interface API through the connection to access the device that interfaces with the main device. The API provides metadata regarding content being rendered on the main device and access to control selection of what is rendered on the main device. The local application is interfaced over the internet with a remote application. The remote application is configured to receive and analyze at least part of the metadata received from the local application. The remote application is configured to produce companion content that relates to the content rendered on the main device. The companion content from the remote application is forwarded to the local application of the secondary device for rendering while the content is being rendered on the main device. Any changes in the content being rendered on the main device is detected based in part on the analysis of the metadata obtained from the local application. The companion content is refreshed from time to time on the secondary device based on the detected changes in the content being rendered on the main device.

In another embodiment a system for providing companion content at a secondary device for a content being rendered on the main device is disclosed. The system includes a secondary device executing a local application. The local application is configured to establish a wireless connection between the secondary device and a device that interfaces with the main device. The local application connects to an application programming interface API of the device that interfaces with the main device. The local application also detects data associated with the content being rendered on the main device through the wireless connection. The local application receives data regarding the content being rendered on the main device and access to control selection of what is being rendered on the main device through the API of the device. The data includes metadata associated with the content being rendered on the main device. The local application processes at least a portion of the metadata locally in substantial real time and communicates with a remote application over an internet to obtain the companion content using the metadata. The remote application is configured to analyze the metadata received from the secondary device to produce companion content that relates to the content being rendered on the main device. The local application renders the companion content on the secondary device in substantial real time while the content is being rendered on the main device. The analysis of the metadata detects changes in the content being rendered on the main device. The changes in the content produce changes in the companion content that is rendered on the secondary device.

In yet another embodiment a system for generating companion content for a secondary device based on content being rendered on a main device having a display is disclosed. The system includes a remote application executing on a server. The remote application is configured to detect execution of a local application on the secondary device. The local application establishes a wireless communication connection between the secondary device and a device that interfaces with the main device. The local application connects to an application programming interface API of the device to access the device. The API of the device provides metadata regarding content being rendered on the main device and access to control selection of what is being rendered on the main device through the wireless communication connection. The remote application executing on the server interfaces with the local application executing on the secondary device over an internet. The remote application receives the metadata from the local application executing on the secondary device in substantial real time. At least a part of the metadata received from the local application is analyzed to produce companion content that relates to the content rendered on the main device. The companion content for the content is returned to the local application on the secondary device for rendering in substantial real time. Any changes in the content being rendered on the main device are detected based in part on the analysis of the metadata obtained from the local application. The detection of changes in the content is reflected in the companion content being returned to the local application. The companion content rendered on the secondary device is refreshed from time to time based on detected changes in the content being rendered on the main device.

Thus the embodiments of the invention provide an effective and efficient application tool that uses the display space on the main device and the additional real estate space on the secondary device optimally. Interaction with companion content rendered and dynamically refreshed on the secondary device is possible. The companion content may includes links to the internet interface to participate in some network with others and to communicate with others etc.

Other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

Broadly speaking the embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for providing companion content at a secondary device for content being rendered on a main device. The companion content includes content that is contextually and or relationally tied to the content being rendered on the main device content that was previously viewed or content that is similar to what is being viewed on the main device. The companion content is presented in a manner that enables user interaction for controlling data of the content that is being rendered on the main device with the network from which the companion content is obtained with a social network and is able to rate the content and share information about the content. In one embodiment the information provided on the secondary device includes information that a user may have sought by manual navigation of a network such as the Internet. In another embodiment the information is contextually related to what is being watched on the main device and the information provides a wider understanding or augmentation of content for enjoying content on the main and companion devices either simultaneously serially or intermittently during a session.

The secondary device executes an application that is configured to connect to a device that interfaces with the main device or device that connects to a main device e.g. a set top box to detect and obtain data about the content and to obtain additional information that is contextually tied to the content being rendered at the main device. The application on the secondary device processes the data obtained from the device and receives and renders the additional information obtained from the network on the secondary device. Rendering the additional information describing the companion content on the secondary device enables optimal use of the display space in both the main device and the secondary device thus enriching the user s TV viewing experience without compromising on the quality. Additionally the secondary device enables user interaction with the companion content and also provides interactive controls that enable users to directly control what content is presented on the main device. When the user is interacting with the companion content the user is also able to obtain additional information about the companion content as well as share information with other users e.g. friends buddies social networking users etc. .

With the brief overview various embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the figures. illustrates a simplified block diagram of a system executing an application for delivering companion content to a secondary device in one embodiment of the invention. The application can partly execute locally on the secondary device and partly execute remotely on a server over the network. The system includes a device such as a device for interfacing with cable satellite and or internet that interfaces with a main device . The main device may be a television TV screen monitor or a display device to render multimedia content such as content at the request of a user. The main device is communicatively connected to a network such as the Internet through a media interface and a connection interface to request and receive content distributed by one or more media programming providers MPP 

The device may be provided by a MPP and include programming and other logic to receive directly or through a satellite or internet and control content e.g. live or recorded being rendered on the main device . The connection interface provides a communication interface between the media interface that includes the device and other devices between the media interface and the internet . The connection interface may include one or more routers and one or more modems that are used to establish communication connection i.e. wired or wireless between the main device and the MPP over the Internet and to convert content from the MPP received in a specific format to a format that is compatible with the main device. The device may include control action logic status logic programming logic other logic and circuitry to receive and process a request for content from the main device and receive and process the data for the content from the MPP and other content source providers. The device also includes an application programming interface API that enables the device to interact with the external devices. The API of the device exposes the data associated with the content that is available at the device to one or more external devices. As used herein an API should be broadly construed to include any piece of code module or part of an application that has some defined communication protocol. The communication protocol enables applications code or modules to communicate with one another and to pass information or receive control information.

The system also includes a secondary device such as a connected device that executes a local application . The local application is configured to establish a communication connection between the secondary device and the device that interfaces with the main device and between the secondary device and the internet . The local application includes an API within for establishing the communication connection with the API of the device and with the internet . The secondary device could be a laptop computer a desktop or personal computer PC a tablet computing device such as a iPad a mobile computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile phone or the like. The secondary device is not restricted to the aforementioned list of computing devices but may include other types of mobile desktop devices that are capable of being communicatively connected through the APIs to the device that interfaces with the main device and the internet . The secondary device also includes a display rendering device for rendering information.

The local application in the secondary device upon activation is configured to detect data related to a content being rendered on the main device at the device through the respective APIs. The data associated with content may include metadata. The local application queries and obtains the data i.e. metadata processes at least a portion of the metadata and forwards some or all of the metadata to a remote application over the internet for further processing. The remote application may be executing on a server that may be part of a content aggregator and is communicatively interfaced with the local application. The remote application uses the various resources available to the content aggregator for producing companion content. The content aggregator may include a plurality of servers that may each be executing a remote application related to the local application executing on various secondary devices. The remote application executing on the server of the content aggregator detects the activation of the local application through the interface and receives the metadata forwarded by the local application . The remote application analyzes the metadata and uses resources available to the server through the content aggregator to collect additional content related to the metadata. Based on the analysis the remote application may conduct a search using a search query collect additional content data from a plurality of content providers from a specific content provider or from any other available sources. The plurality of content providers may include social network service providers and other promotional content providers e.g. advertisers or suppliers servers for providing advertising data . The remote application aggregates the additional content obtained from the search and collected from various sources into companion content. It then organizes the companion content and returns the organized companion content to the local application executing on the secondary device.

The local application may further format the companion content before rendering the companion content on the display device associated with the secondary device while the content is being rendered on the main device. In one embodiment detection through the API of the device processing of at least a portion of the metadata locally communicating on the internet and rendering of the companion content at the secondary device are performed by the local application in the secondary device with little or no user action. Once companion content is presented on the secondary device users are able to interact with the content similar to interfacing with a website. In one embodiment the local application renders the companion content on the secondary device while detecting changes to the content being rendered on the main device. The changes to the content result in changes to the companion content that is received and refreshed on the secondary device from time to time.

Conventional applications were very cumbersome and manual. The users while watching the content on the main device manually connected to the internet generated multiple queries and obtained some additional information. As the content being rendered on the main device changed the user had to generate additionally queries and navigate to various sites to obtain information on the content if desired.

The local application and the remote application work together to provide the appropriate companion content related to the content being rendered on the main device in substantial real time without any user inputs. The companion content rendered on the secondary device is refreshed from time to time as and when changes to the content rendered on the main device is detected. The companion content is in contextually related to the content being viewed content that was previously viewed content that is similar to the content currently being viewed or previously viewed and other contents that augment the content being viewed. The companion content is interactive enabling access to control selection of the content being viewed obtaining of additional information and sharing the one or more companion content with other users making this a very versatile application tool.

The system includes a secondary device that executes a local application. The local application includes an API within to interact with the API of the device to detect request and receive data associated with a content that is being rendered on the main device.

In one embodiment the term query can be the function of accessing or requesting data via a communication connection channel session or exchange. In other embodiments the term query can relate to the presentation of information from which additional information is retrieved. For instance the information can be key words codes or messages that are forwarded to an application or module and the application or module performs additional processing such as searching to obtain various types of additional information results web data or responses.

Furthermore the content could be a live or recorded content received directly from a MPP through a satellite or through the internet. The local application also establishes communication connection to the internet through the router in the communication interface . In one embodiment the connection between the secondary device and the router is wireless as illustrated by bubble B . The internet is connected to a server executing a remote application that is related to the local application executing on the secondary device. The server may be part of a content aggregator that includes a plurality of servers each executing one or more remote applications. The remote application is configured to collect content from a plurality of sources. Some of the sources that provide content include secondary device service providers MPP promotional media content providers such as ad server social network service provider search content provider content providers television networks such as CNN NBC ABC BBC etc. to name a few. It should be noted that the above list of sources is exemplary and should not be considered restrictive. In addition to the sources the data could be provided by a plurality of database modules that store data related to content users or promotional media content or on any other related topics.

The data process flow begins with a main device requesting a content from the device as illustrated by bubble 1 . The request may be obtained from a user through a control mechanism such as a remote control. The device processes the request and may include a device identifier associated with the device when forwarding the request to the appropriate MPP through the router . The MPP receives the request validates the request to ensure that the request is from a valid device and is for a content that the device is authorized to receive. In one embodiment the authorization to receive the content may be through a periodic subscription for the content agreed by a user of the device with the MPP . Upon validating the device and the content request the MPP may direct a satellite to directly transmit the signal for the content to the device as illustrated by bubble 2 . The device receives the signal from the satellite and the logic and circuitry within the device processes the signal formats the signal if necessary and forwards the signal to the main device.

The local application activated at the secondary device detects the signal for the content received at the device and queries the device through the respective APIs to obtain data associated with the content as illustrated by bubble 3 . In one embodiment the local application queries polls the device periodically to obtain data related to the content being rendered on the main device. In another embodiment the local application may query poll the device continuously so long as the content is being received from the MPP i.e. through the satellite and rendered at the main device. In yet another embodiment the local application may query poll the device based upon triggering of an event such as a Play button being pressed after a Pause . In one embodiment the device acts as a web server receiving and servicing the queries polls from the local application in the secondary device.

The data detected and obtained by the local application in one embodiment is in the form of metadata associated with content that is being rendered on the main device . The metadata identifies various levels of detail regarding the content being watched and that the device exposes to the local application including title of the show program being watched time stamp of the show various details of scenes being rendered etc. In addition to the aforementioned details of the show the metadata data may include pausing data recording data and any other controlling data status of the show and other programming details that the logic within the device exposes through the API.

The local application processes at least a portion of the metadata received from the device in substantial real time locally at the secondary device. The local application analyzes the metadata to determine which metadata needs to be processed locally and which metadata needs to be forwarded to a remote application for further processing. Based on the analysis the local application forwards at least a second portion of the data metadata to the router for further processing as shown by bubble 4 for onward transmission to the internet as shown by bubble 5 . The internet forwards the data received from the local application through the router to the remote application executing on a server associated with the content aggregator as shown by bubble 6 .

The remote application detects execution of the local application at the secondary device through the interface and waits to receive interaction from the secondary device. Upon receiving the metadata the remote application analyzes the metadata in substantial real time to produce companion content. The analysis of the metadata may include interacting with a plurality of sources to collect content that match or relate to the metadata and to conduct a search using a search query. The sources from which the remote application collects may include one or more third party content providers specific content provider s or any combination thereof. The remote application may also generate a search query based on the analysis of the metadata and use the search query to obtain search results. The content from various sources and the search results are collected to generate the companion content for the metadata. The remote application then formats the companion content and returns the formatted companion content through the internet as shown by bubble 7 to the router as shown by bubble 8 . The formatting of the companion content at the server may be based on the secondary device that forwarded the metadata. The router forwards the companion content to the secondary device as shown by bubble 9 . The local application in the secondary device renders the companion content on the display device associated with the secondary device in substantial real time as shown by bubble 10 while the content is being rendered on the main device. The local application continues to detect changes to the content rendered on the main device and receives companion content that reflects the changes. The companion content rendering on the secondary device is periodically refreshed from time to time to reflect the changes to the content in the main device. In one embodiment refreshing might be for example after 2 seconds 3 seconds 5 seconds or after the user watches a new channel or program for a period of time. Providing a delay in refreshing may reduce the number of times companion content changes on the secondary device during channel surfing to avoid too fast of changes appearing on the display of the secondary device which might be distracting.

The processing of metadata by the remote application may include one or more promotional data within the companion content e.g. ads in the form of text links banners icons symbols etc. . The promotional content may be related to the content being rendered on the main device related to the secondary device or related to a promotional media provider that has requested for inclusion of the promotional content. In one embodiment during the analysis of the metadata the remote application may identify a promotional content that is being rendered with the content on the main device. In this embodiment the remote application may identify and include the promotional content identified through the metadata for including in the companion content for rendering on the secondary device. In one embodiment a promotional media provider may request for such data to be included when generating the companion content for the secondary device. For instance a sponsor of a particular content that is rendering on the main device may request for placement of the promotional content on the secondary device.

In one embodiment the application for providing companion content executes partially on the secondary device and partially on the server. In this embodiment the local application would be an extension of the server application. Thus the secondary device will communicate with the server and based on logic executed on the server appropriate companion content will be collected formatted and returned for display on the secondary device. The application whether fully or partially executing on the server will generate the appropriate companion content for the metadata associated with the content. The companion content could include content related to currently viewed content previously viewed content recommended content viewing history of users having similar viewing habits based on an explicit request received from the secondary device or any combination thereof etc. The companion content is periodically refreshed to reflect changes to the content being rendered on the main device.

The rendered companion content is interactive in that a user can select a particular companion content to control the content being rendered on the main device request additional content share the content rate the content etc.

The local processing module within the local application analyzes at least a portion of the metadata to determine which metadata can be processed locally and which metadata needs to be forwarded to the remote application for further processing. The control module may interact with the device through the respective APIs and may be used to actively detect the data at the device provide control commands to the device for controlling selection of the content that is being rendered on the main device determine status of the content at the device and perform other control process. The metadata ID processing module interprets the metadata to determine what data is being received in the metadata. The metadata ID processing module may interact with a metadata interpretation table to interpret the metadata. The metadata interpretation table may be provided by the MPP and maintained locally on the secondary device or may be maintained remotely on the internet and made available to the local application executing on the secondary device through the API. Based on the analysis the local processing module may identify and process a portion of the metadata that is identified for processing locally.

The metadata that needs to be processed by a remote application is forwarded by the local application in substantial real time to a server over the internet. The server is executing the remote application that is related to the local application executing on the secondary device. The server may be part of a content aggregator and may be identified by the local application. The remote application uses the resources available at the content aggregator to process the metadata and generate companion content. The content aggregator may include a plurality of servers each running a plurality of applications and access to plurality of resources to service the request from the remote application. The remote application detects the activation of the local application on the secondary device and is configured to receive the metadata over the internet. The remote application includes a plurality of modules that are configured to interact with a plurality of resources available to the server and process the metadata received from the local application of the secondary device. As a result the remote application may include a metadata ID processing module that receives the metadata from the secondary device and interprets the received metadata. As mentioned earlier the metadata ID processing module of the remote application is similar in function and scope to the one described with reference to the local application. As a result the metadata ID processing module may also interact with the metadata interpretation table to interpret the metadata to identify details of the metadata. The metadata interpretation table may be provided by a media programming provider MPP that is providing the content for rendering at the main device. In one embodiment the content aggregator may store metadata interpretation table for each MPP in a metadata repository and make it available to the metadata ID processing module in both the remote application and the local application. The details of the metadata may include MPP identifier channel identifier show identifier show screen identifier etc. and the metadata interpretation table may interpret the metadata to identify the data contained within the metadata.

Based on the interpretation of the metadata a server processing module in the remote application may automatically generate a query request that describes the content. The server processing module may parse the content identifier show identifier show screen identifier etc. to identify keywords and use the keywords to generate the query request that substantially describes the content. The processing logic may use the keywords as search parameters in a search query. The search query may interact with a search engine to obtain the search results that match the search query. The search results are used as part of the companion content returned to the secondary device.

The interpreted metadata may also be used to collect additional content. For instance the interpreted metadata may be used by a history tracker module within the remote application to collect content related to content previously viewed. The interpreted metadata may also be used by the server processing module to collect additional content from a specific MPP that provided the content for rendering on the main device. A recommendation module may use the interpreted metadata to identify and collect popular content content that are in the news content related to the content that is being rendered on the main device etc. In order to tailor the content retrieved by the recommendation module to the specific user or specific secondary device a user identifier or a device identifier received with the metadata may be used. A similarity profile matching module may use the device user identifier along with the interpreted metadata to identify content that are identified as favorites or are popular with a group of users that have profile that are similar to the user s profile. The similarity profile matching module may interact with a history tracker to identify content that was previously viewed by the user at the device. The similarity profile matching module may use the identified content from the history tracker to determine the user s viewing profile and use the viewing profile to identify a user group whose viewing profile matches the user s viewing profile to recommend content.

In addition to the collected content the server processing module may identify and provide interfaces to one or more social network to communicate with others and share one or more aspects of the companion content with other users and a control interface to control the content being rendered on the main device and to provide rating on the content. As can be seen the various modules within the remote application collect data from various sources for including in the companion content. The remote application includes an ad matching module to identify a promotional content that matches the metadata based on the analysis.

The server processing module aggregates all the collected content including the search results organizes the aggregated content into companion content formats the companion content to comply with the secondary device requirements. The organized companion content is forwarded to the local application executing in the secondary device for rendering.

A rendering module in the local application receives the formatted companion content processes to include any locally processed data and renders it on the display device of the secondary device in substantial real time. The speed of processing the metadata to generate companion content and the speed of refreshing the companion content to reflect the changes detected in the content may be driven by the bandwidth shared between the secondary device and the server at the content aggregator. The broader the bandwidth shared faster the processing and rendering refresh. The rendering on the secondary device is performed while the content is being rendered on the main device and while the local application is actively detecting changes to the content being rendered on the main device. The detection of changes to the content results in refining the companion content so as to reflect the changes to the content rendered on the main device. The companion content rendered on the secondary device is refreshed from time to time in response to the changes detected in the content. The process of detecting the changes and refining the companion content continues so long as the content is being rendered on the main device or so long as the secondary device is connected to the device . Although the embodiments have been described in detail with reference to obtaining companion content for content being rendered on the main device it should be noted that the embodiments may be extended to obtaining content for content that is not rendered on the main device but is available through the companion content. The remote and the local applications provide the user with flexibility to use the companion content to receive additional content that is rendered on the secondary device.

As can be seen the various embodiments provide an efficient application tool that makes optimal use of display space on the display devices associated with the main device and the secondary device while providing the capability for interaction over the internet. The user is provided with the companion content that is periodically refreshed to reflect changes detected in the content being rendered on the main device.

The remote application receives the metadata forwarded by the local application and analyzes the metadata to produce companion content that relates to the content rendered on the main device. Based on the analysis the remote application may interact with a plurality of sources to identify and collect content that relates to the content rendering on the main device. The remote application may also generate a search query and conduct a search to obtain search results for the search query. The remote application organizes the collected content and search results into companion content organizes the companion content into a format that complies with the requirements of the secondary device and returns the organized companion content to the secondary device for rendering. The local application receives the organized companion content from the remote application as illustrated in operation . The organized content is rendered on the display device of the secondary device as illustrated in operation . The analyzing of the metadata at the remote application includes detecting changes in the content being rendered on the main device as reported by the local application. The companion content returned to the secondary device reflects the detected changes to the content and the secondary device refreshes the companion content from time to time to reflect the changes in the content at the main device.

The remote application is configured to receive the metadata from the local application and analyze the metadata to produce companion content that relates to the content being rendered on the main device. The remote application may interact with a plurality of sources available at the server to collect content related to the metadata and may also conduct a search using a search query to obtain search results. The collected content and search results are aggregated to produce the companion content. The aggregated companion content is forwarded to the local application of the secondary device for rendering while the content is being rendered on the main device as illustrated in operation .

The remote application detects changes in the content being rendered on the main device based on the analysis of the metadata received from the local application as illustrated in operation . The detected changes result in the refining of the companion content that is forwarded to the local application. The companion content rendered on the secondary device is refreshed from time to time to reflect the changes in the companion content that relates to the detected changes in the content. The process continues so long as the secondary device is executing the local application or so long as the content is being rendered on the main device.

It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention could employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations can include the physical transformations of data saving of data and display of data. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Data can also be stored in the network during capture and transmission over a network. The storage can be for example at network nodes and memory associated with a server and other computing devices including portable devices.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

