---

title: Systems and methods for identifying usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for identifying usage histories for producing optimized utilization in a cloud-based network. In particular, a target cloud can receive usage histories corresponding to end user usage in a respective set of other clouds. In embodiments, the target cloud can simulate an execution of the usage histories on resources in the target cloud to generate a set of utilization ratios. Further, the target cloud can determine a desirable usage history from the set of utilization ratios based on highly optimized resource usage within the target cloud. In embodiments, an administrator of the target cloud can provide a deployment recommendation to an administrator of the cloud associated with the desirable usage history.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08612615&OS=08612615&RS=08612615
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08612615
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for identifying usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization and more particularly to platforms and techniques for securing cloud users that can improve resource efficiency within a target cloud.

Cloud computing environments utilize shared resources software and information that can be provided for use by end users. For example a service level agreement SLA can be entered into between a vendor such as an independent software vendor ISV and a cloud network provider whereby the cloud network provider agrees to commit an amount of resources associated with virtual machines in the cloud network for use by end users during operation of software products and applications of the vendor. In return the cloud network provider can charge the vendor a specified rate in proportion to the amount of committed resources. The cloud network provider provides or maintains an amount of resources in the cloud network such as server uptime persistent storage software application instantiation network performance cloud storage support response time and other elements. The operation of the resources by the end users generates a usage history associated with the cloud network that details consumption amounts and patterns and other metrics.

An administrator of the cloud network may wish to optimize usage of the resources within the cloud network. More particularly the administrator may want end users to utilize all or substantially all of the resources within the cloud network thereby optimizing usage of the available resources revenue streams and other factors. However it is sometimes the case that the actual utilization rate of the resources by the end users is not maximized or optimal. Further an administrator of the cloud network may desire to locate an existing usage rate that would optimize the usage of the resources of the cloud network.

Therefore it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for identifying usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization. In particular it may be desirable to secure cloud users that can improve or optimize resource usage efficiency within a target cloud by examining sets of usage histories of diverse users.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for identifying usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization. In particular embodiments relate to platforms and techniques for securing cloud users that can improve maximize and or optimize resource usage efficiency within a target cloud. The target cloud can have a specified amount of resources to be utilized by for example end users. For example the resources of the cloud can be deployed as a Software as a Service SaaS . An administrator of the target cloud can be motivated to achieve optimal usage of the resources in the target cloud. For example the administrator may want to maintain as close as possible to 100 usage of the resources by end users accessing the resources. Optimal resource usage can lead to a more efficient service agreement such as for example an SLA between the target cloud and a vendor such as an ISV. In other embodiments optimal usage of the resources in the target cloud can avoid underutilization and overutilization of the target cloud therefore also avoiding the need to re cloud or perform other service remedies.

According to embodiments a target cloud can collect a set of usage histories associated with consumption data by end users of other cloud networks. The target cloud can determine through running simulations models and or other analysis of the usage histories on resources associated with the target cloud a usage history that produces the most optimized utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud. In embodiments an administrator of the target cloud can generate a deployment recommendation or offer to the users or entities whose usage histories optimizes the utilization of the target cloud in other embodiments the administrator of the target cloud can offer to the users or entities having the optimal user histories discounts on subscriptions longer or varying time frame subscriptions better service options various support options and other offers or incentives. This can be in contrast to situations in which the target cloud is attempting to discover one or more entities whose usage histories would benefit from migration to the target cloud. Further this can be in contrast to situations in which an individual resource such as a virtual machine is matched in and migrated to a new cloud. Instead embodiments described herein relate to using a resource usage history of a set of resources and workloads in a predictive way by administrators to determine appropriate cloud deployment targets.

Embodiments as described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can refer to a cloud based network comprising a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As used herein an end user can refer to a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity accessing files and or devices storing the files in the cloud. In embodiments the end user can operate or manage computer software or hardware that can access files and or devices storing the files in the cloud based network. Further as used herein an administrator of a cloud can refer to a person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a cloud.

As used herein the resources of a cloud can refer to software or hardware such as for example applications programs servers device drivers storage such as hard drives virtual memory databases random access memory RAM and other memory processors multimedia cards and the like in the cloud. The resources can be accessed by users or by software or applications independent from or associated with resources of the cloud. In embodiments vendors such as ISVs can supply software resources for use with other resources in a cloud. Resources of the cloud can further refer to any communications resources such as ports or channels provided to a virtual machine or other machine or process in the cloud. Resources can likewise include services such as Web based services deployed in the cloud for example security or identity management services and or other resources.

As used herein optimize can be a general term that can refer to the best available option. In other words an optimized configuration need not represent the best possible configuration but instead can mean the preferred configuration of the possible configurations. Further the term optimize can also mean maximize enhance improve or other terms related to a preferred or improved performance level. Still further as used herein a simulation can refer to a projection model analysis assessment breakdown evaluation and other terms that can refer to any type of analysis of data.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine that the user desires to invoke for its intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user desires to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their purposes. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more of the set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select groups of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in the set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers shown in . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or within a short period of time on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or almost constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . Further the cloud management system of the first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of the second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In embodiments the administrator can be any person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a target cloud . In embodiments the administrator can manage the delivery or provisioning of software applications or other software hardware or other products or services such as products and services of one or more ISVs not shown in figures to end users accessing the target cloud . In embodiments the end users can access the set of instantiated virtual machines located in the target cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator can enter into one or more service agreements with vendors or other entities to provide resources to end users in one or multiple clouds and or across multiple products and or product lines.

The optimization module can receive a set of usage histories from the set of clouds via the one or more networks . In embodiments each of the set of usage histories can comprise respective end user data within the set of clouds . For example as shown in cloud A can have an associated usage history cloud B can have an associated user history and so on. In embodiments the set of usage histories can comprise data related to the operation or consumption of any of the resources within the set of clouds . For example the data can comprise any processing consumption storage execution or transfer data or any other data or metrics related to the operation of any hardware software or other resources within the set of clouds by the end users.

The optimization module can simulate or model an execution of each of the set of usage histories on resources within the target cloud such as on the set of instantiated virtual machines . For example the optimization module can compare any processing power data in the received usage history data to the processing power available on the set of instantiated virtual machines . For further example the optimization module can compare any file storage data in the received usage history data to the data storage available on the set of instantiated virtual machines . For further example the optimization module can compare any file transfer data in the received usage history data to the data transfer capability on the set of instantiated virtual machines . It should be appreciated that any consumption data or other metric within the usage histories can be applied and analyzed with respect to the resources of the target cloud .

The optimization module can determine from the simulations a utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud for each of the set of usage histories . In embodiments the utilization ratio can be a percent usage rate of the resources in the target cloud that results from the projected or simulated migration of a corresponding usage history . For example the usage data corresponding to cloud A of the set of clouds can equate to 80 utilization of the resources in the target cloud and the usage data corresponding to cloud B of the set of clouds can equate to 65 utilization of the resources in the target cloud . The optimization module can select a usage history of the set of usage histories that produced a highly optimized or preferred utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud . For example the optimization module can determine which corresponding cloud has a usage history with a utilization ratio closest to 100 or other target percentages.

In embodiments the utilization ratio can exceed the target percentage and still be deemed a preferred utilization ratio. For example a utilization ratio of 102 is closer to 100 than is a utilization ratio of 95 . In these cases the optimization module can determine a configuration whereby a portion of the consumption or processing metrics represented by the usage history can be allocated to one cloud such as the target cloud and another portion of the consumption or processing metrics represented by the usage history can be allocated to another cloud that may or may not be associated with the administrator and or the target cloud .

In further embodiments the optimization module can determine one or more combinations of utilization ratios that can be deemed a highly or sufficiently optimized configuration. For example one utilization ratio of 60 can be combined with another utilization ratio of 38 for a combined utilization ratio of 98 . In these cases the optimization module can determine a configuration whereby the end users of the respective clouds with the utilization ratios of 60 and 38 can utilize the resources within the target cloud in combination. It should be appreciated that other calculations and variables can be used to determine which of the set of usage histories produce the most preferred or best available utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud .

In embodiments the optimization module can notify the administrator of the determined most preferred usage history. In embodiments the administrator can be notified of any of the results of the simulations in any way and via any data communication. Further in embodiments the optimization module can generate or provide a deployment recommendation or offer to an administrator owner or other user associated with any of the set of clouds . For example if the resources of the target cloud would be preferably optimized with a usage history associated with cloud A of the set of clouds then the administrator can contact an administrator of cloud A in an effort to entice the administrator of cloud A to enter into an agreement with the administrator for use of the resources of the target cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator or other entity can contact an administrator associated with any of the set of clouds or other clouds in any way with any type of information or offer.

The optimization module can compare the set of utilization ratios to determine which cloud or which combination of clouds would provide a highly or sufficiently optimized resource usage within the target cloud. For example as shown in assuming that the most preferred utilization ratio is the utilization ratio that is closest to 100 but not over 100 then the optimization module can determine that cloud B with a utilization ratio of 95 would provide the most preferred resource usage within the target cloud. For further example as shown in assuming that the most preferred utilization ratio is the utilization ratio that is closest to 100 including values over 100 then the optimization module can determine that cloud D with a utilization ratio of 103 would provide the most preferred resource usage within the target cloud.

For further example the optimization module can determine combinations of the utilization ratios that are closest to 100 . For example the utilization ratio of cloud A 81 combined with the utilization ratio of cloud C 17 produces a combined utilization ratio of 98 which is closer to 100 than both the utilization ratio of cloud B 95 and the utilization ratio of cloud D 103 . It should be appreciated that other calculations are envisioned when determining which usage history provides the most preferred resource usage within the target cloud.

Processor can also communicate with computer readable storage medium and the optimization module to execute control logic identify usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization in the cloud as described herein and control the operation of virtual machines and other resources in cloud . Other configurations of cloud management system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

In an execution of each the set of usage histories on resources in the target cloud can be simulated projected modeled evaluated or the like. In embodiments the processing and or consumption metrics as reported in the usage histories that occurred in the other clouds can be applied to and analyzed with respect to at least one of the resources of the target cloud. In a utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud for each of the set of usage histories can be determined from the simulations. In embodiments the utilization ratio can indicate a percentage of one or more of the resources of the target cloud that are utilized in the simulation. Further in embodiments the utilization ratio can be any value in the range of 0 to over 100 .

In the usage history with the most preferred utilization ratio of the resources in the target cloud can be selected. In embodiments a preferred utilization ratio can be the utilization ratio that is closest to 100 including or excluding utilization ratios that are greater than 100 . Further in embodiments there can be multiple usage histories that have a preferred utilization ratio for example if the multiple usage histories indicate the same percentage of utilized resources. In an administrator of the target cloud can be notified of the one or more usage histories that have the most preferred utilization ratios.

In a deployment recommendation or offer can be provided to an administrator or entity associated with the cloud with the usage history that has the most preferred utilization ratio. In embodiments the deployment recommendation can comprise an offer to the administrator or entity to employ use of the resources of the target cloud. Further in embodiments the offer can be directed to multiple administrators or entities associated with multiple clouds having the most preferred user histories. Still further in embodiments the administrators or entities can be any user or owner associated with the clouds or anyone who has decision making authority regarding the managing of cloud providers.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described which operate using one optimization module and associated cloud management system in embodiments one or more of optimization module and associated cloud management system and or other servers data stores and or other logic or resources can be used. For further example while embodiments have been described in which files associated with cloud resources are monitored in embodiments the files can be monitored at any time or interval. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

