---

title: Method, medium, and system for allocating a transaction discount during a collaborative shopping session
abstract: A collaborative shopping group can be established within a social networking web site. This initially established group can consist of individuals with whom the establishing user has a social networking affiliation. After an initial establishment of the collaborative shopping group, each individual within the group is able to add additional individuals to the collaborative shopping group. A shared shopping cart can be established for the collaborative shopping group. A set of different members of the collaborative shopping group can individually and independently add items from a set of different e-commerce sites to the shared shopping cart. An e-commerce purchase of items in the shared shopping cart can be completed. The completed e-commerce purchase can receive a transaction discount greater than or equal to a sum of discounts that would have resulted from discrete purchases of the items of the shared shopping cart by the individuals of the collaborative shopping group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970661&OS=07970661&RS=07970661
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07970661
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100120
---
The present invention relates to the field of online shopping systems and more particularly to a collaborative online shopping system.

Shopping has been a social experience for centuries from ancient marketplaces to today s outlet malls. However much of this social interaction has been lost in the shift to Web based or online shopping systems. In the attempt to interject more social interaction many online shopping systems have introduced features such as wish lists recommendation lists user submitted product feedback shopping carts that are viewable by others and universal shopping carts that aggregate products from a defined group of retailers. While these attempts provide their own benefit to online shopping the online shopping systems lack the automated social communication aspect popularized by social networking Websites such as FACEBOOK MYSPACE and ORKUT where information is automatically made available from one account holder to other account holders based on established relationships

For example two friends Shopper A and Shopper B both have accounts for shopping at the same online retailer. Both shoppers have a stored shopping cart with a couple of product items intending to make their purchases when the value of their respective shopping carts qualifies for a discounted shipping rate. Unless Shopper A and Shopper B explicitly share information about their stored shopping carts which must occur outside of the shopping Website e.g. lists the contents in an email or telephone call neither will be aware that the combination of their two shopping carts qualifies for discounted shipping. Simply the online shopping system does not know that Shopper A knows Shopper B or that either shopper may be interested in combining their purchases.

Newer attempts such as that described in Great Britain Patent No. 2458388A have focused on simulating the shopping experience in virtual marketplaces. Three dimensional 3D models of the shoppers are able to communicate and perform many typical shopping actions in a virtual representation of a store. However such a graphics intensive system incurs additional overhead for both the host system and the shopper s system to support the 3D modeling of the shoppers and virtual environment.

Although this system allows multiple users to aggregate selected product items into a single purchase with a single vendor and even split costs it does not support a social network structure between the shoppers or the use of a universal shopping cart. Nor does this system support the ability for one shopper to apply a coupon or promotion code to the purchase to be shared among the shoppers a very common reason shoppers combine purchases or purchase additional items. Further a shopper viewing another shopper s shopping cart any actions that the viewing shopper may want to take such as creating a copy of the shopping cart for their own purposes must be reiterated manually.

One aspect of the invention a collaborative shopping group can be established within a social networking web site. This initially established group can consist of individuals with whom the establishing user has a social networking affiliation. After an initial establishment of the collaborative shopping group each individual within the group is able to add additional individuals to the collaborative shopping group. A shared shopping cart can be established for the collaborative shopping group. A set of different members of the collaborative shopping group can individually and independently add items from a set of different e commerce sites to the shared shopping cart. Each of the different e commerce sites can have a unique URL and can be independently owned and operated from the social networking site and from each other. An e commerce purchase of items in the shared shopping cart can be completed. The completed e commerce purchase can receive a transaction discount greater than or equal to a sum of discounts that would have resulted from discrete purchases of the items of the shared shopping cart by the individuals of the collaborative shopping group. Thus use of the collaborative shopping group saves group members money which may be due to bulk discounts shipping discounts combination purchasing discounts reward program discounts and the like. Outside of the collaborative shopping group none of the individual members or individual purchases may have quantified for the discounts received by the group.

In one aspect of the disclosure a shared shopping cart can be established for use by a set of different collaborative shoppers. Each of the collaborative shoppers can individually and independently add items from at least one e commerce site via a shopper specific browser interface to the collaborative shared shopping cart. Any of the collaborative shoppers can select a sale finalization action via their browser interface. Responsive to the selection of the finalization action each of the collaborative shoppers of the plurality can confirm whether that shopper elects to finalize a sale of the items in the collaborative shared shopping cart. Only when each of the collaborative shoppers has finalized the sale of items in the collaborative shopping cart will a purchasing transaction commence. This action can purchase the items in the collaborative shared shopping cart from the e commerce sites. A shared cart transactional discount can be provided for the purchase of the collaborative shared shopping cart items. This discount can be greater than or equal to a sum of transactional discounts that would have been granted where the collaborative shared shopping cart items purchased separately as individual specific discrete transactions. For the purchase each of the different collaborative shoppers can pay a shopper specific amount for the items which that shopper placed in the collaborative shopping cart. The shopper specific amount will not exceed an amount that would have been paid where the items purchased separately by the shopper as an individual specific discrete transaction. Each of the purchased items can be shipped to postal mail other addresses specified by the different collaborative shoppers.

The present invention discloses a solution that incorporates social relationships within the shopping experience provided by an online shopping system. A shopper can define a network of social relationships to other shoppers that the socially collaborative shopping system can utilize when providing the shopper with shopping related information such as recommendations and alert notifications. Multiple shoppers can create a shared social shopping cart SSC to make a collaborative purchase of their product items. The collaborative purchase of the SSC can be treated as a single logical transaction with the socially collaborative shopping system disseminating the purchase information to the specific online retailers involved. Further online retailers can establish incentive models within the socially collaborative shopping system for rewarding shoppers who positively affect their sales.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction handling system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction handling system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may run entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which runs via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which run on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Shoppers and can access the social shopping interface and from a client device and . The client device and can represent a variety of computing devices such as a personal computer or a network enabled mobile phone. The social shopping interface and can correspond to a software application that allows shoppers and to perform a variety of operations within the socially collaborative shopping system via network . The social shopping interface and can utilize a variety of technologies capable of interacting with a service oriented architecture SOA environment .

Examples of operations that can be performed by the shoppers and can include but are not limited to a single shopper or making purchases from one or more online retailers multiple shoppers and making a single collaborative purchase from one or more online retailers defining a social shopping network of other shoppers or creating shopping alerts based on their social shopping network and the like.

Use of the socially collaborative shopping system can require a shopper and to be registered. Registration of a shopper and can include the collection and storage of shopper data . Shopper data can represent information entered by a shopper and or that supports functions of the socially collaborative shopping system . Aside from standard identifying information i.e. username and password the shopper data can also include alert definitions user preferences and a social shopping network .

Alert definitions can represent a set of conditions that when met prompt the socially collaborative shopping system to send a notification to the shoppers or . The user preferences can represent user configurable settings affecting how the socially collaborative shopping system performs specific functions either for or in reference to the shoppers or .

In one embodiment the alert definitions can provide an ability to set up a passive mode listening for alerts from other shopping carts. For example a shopper may set up an alert definitions to buy a designated item but this shopper may not want to research for a good deal for that item. Shopper can set up an alert on the item where he she receives an alert whenever someone else in his her social shopping network e.g. shopper shopper finds a shopping deal for the designated item. Thus one type of alert permits a deal to come to the shopper rather than forcing the shopper to find the deal.

The social shopping network can represent a listing of other registered shoppers and or that a shopper or has identified a relationship to similar to a friends or buddy list. The social shopping network can be configured to support a variety of information and or relationships per the implementation of the socially collaborative shopping system .

The socially collaborative shopping system can represent the hardware and or software for a computing system capable of supporting the operations initiated within the social shopping interfaces and by the shoppers and and interacting with one or more online retailers social networking systems and or non retailer services within a service oriented architecture SOA environment . Using the SOA environment the socially collaborative shopping system can access online retail services of its participating online retailers interact with a SSC widget supported by social networking systems and exchange data with other non retailer services .

The online retailers can represent entities having Web based systems for selling product items. An online retailer can be a business that operates only electronically such as a small business or a business that maintains an electronic store in addition to physical stores. Online retail services provided by online retailers can include but are not limited to conventional shopping carts inventory information in store availability of products access to data and contained in an associated data store and the like.

Online retailers can include location based inventory retailers who make their inventory available online. That is advances in location awareness technologies and inventory management have permitted many physical storefront retailers to advertise their inventory online. In such a case shoppers can be notified when a person in their network is close to a physical store that has an item in their SSC so that that person can pick up the item for the shopper in question. When an item is picked up for a collaborator the SSC of the person for whom the item is intended can be altered to prevent multiple inadvertent purchases of the same item. In one embodiment updates can occur in real time or near real time. In one embodiment this feature can be implemented using location awareness capabilities of mobile devices carried by people in the network .

The SSC widget can represent a software component that can display SSCs and or provide limited functionalities of the socially collaborative shopping system within an interface of the social networking system such as FACEBOOK MYSPACE or ORKUT. Members of the social networking system using the SSC widget need only have a social relationship with another member who is registered with the socially collaborative shopping system . For example Member Y who is not registered with the socially collaborative shopping system can use the SSC widget to view information about their friend Member J who is registered.

It should be appreciated that information sharing can be controlled by individual users in a network e.g. shopper while required security and rules mechanisms are provided by the system . The system provides an ability for retailers to extend their list of target shoppers by not only focusing on existing customers but also collaborators who are networked via social shopping network with existing customers.

In one embodiment shoppers can enable their SSC and their shopping history with their collaborators to be viewed by various independent retailers online retailers . The amount of information that can be shared with retailers can be configurable by a shopper using access controls and other mechanisms. For example using services provided by an external access control server such as IBM TIVOLI DIRECTORY SERVER the socially collaborative shopping system can restrict access permissions.

For example shopper can use his her SSC to purchase items from Retailer B s retailer Web site. Shopper can then configure parameters of system to allow Retailer B to access shopping purchases conducted by shopper and his her collaborators from other retailers . Based on this information Retailer A can target those shoppers with specific promotions and products thereby generating increased traffic and revenue from Retailer A s web site.

In one embodiment targeted group promotions can be conducted by retailers based on social shopping network information. For example specific promotions can be sent to encourage collaborative or joint shopping sessions between a defined set of individuals. These individuals can be selected based on the retailers analysis from historic shopping transactions. For example retailer data can suggest that when shopper and shopper collaborate in a shopping session each tends to make more substantial purchases than when either shops individually. Thus a group promotion can be established to encourage these two shoppers and to shop together.

The non retailer services can represent a variety of other informational services available over the network that are not associated with any specific online retailer . For example the socially collaborative shopping system can request review information for a product item from an independent reporting agency i.e. consumer reports to aggregate and present to a shopper and or .

To support these various functions components of the socially collaborative shopping system can include a SSC controller a security manager a social alert handler a social recommendation engine a data mining component a collaborative purchase manager a social promotion manager a communications handler and a data store for storing relevant data.

The communications handler can represent the hardware and or software components configured to manage the flow of both internal and external communications traffic. External elements herein referred to en masse as affiliated components that communicate with the socially collaborative shopping system can include but are not limited to client devices and online retailers social networking systems non retailer services and the like. The communications handler can be configured to support the necessary communications protocols as well as utilize pertinent application programming interfaces APIs to establish communication pathways with affiliated components and .

The security manager can represent the hardware and or software elements of the socially collaborative shopping system responsible for ensuring the digital security of data stored within the data store and communications initiated by the communications handler . The security manager can utilize a variety of available security technologies as supported by the socially collaborative shopping system the network and affiliated components and .

The SSC controller can represent the software component of the socially collaborative shopping system that handles operations involving a shopper s and social shopping carts SSCs . A SSC created by the SSC controller can be a modified universal shopping cart. In addition to supporting the one to many purchase relationship between a shopper or and online retailers of a conventional universal shopping cart SSCs created by the SSC controller can also support a many to many purchase relationship between shoppers and and the online retailers herein referred to as shared SSCs.

For example shoppers and can use a shared SSC to purchase product items for an upcoming party. Shopper can add decorations from one or more party supply retailers to the shared SSC shopper can add tableware from various housewares retailers and shopper can add cookware from housewares and cookware boutiques .

Additionally while shopping for cookware shopper can find a better price at a different online retailer for a product item previously added to the shared SSC by shopper. Shopper can then replace the product item added by shopper with the same product item from the other online retailer within the shared SSC.

The SSC controller can be further configured to handle importing the contents of a conventional shopping cart from an online retailer into a SSC structure. For example a shopper can create store a conventional shopping cart while shopping at the Web site of Store D an online retailer participating with the socially collaborative shopping system . Later when visiting Store D via the socially collaborative shopping system the socially collaborative shopping system can detect the existence of shopper s conventional shopping cart and can present shopper with the option to import the contents of that shopping cart into a new or existing SSC.

The SSC controller can include a visibility handler to ensure that shopping information i.e. purchase histories SSC contents associated with a shopper and or are invisible or unavailable for use by specified entities. Limitations as to who can view which pieces or types of information can be stored within the user preferences of the shopper s and or shopper data .

For example shopper when purchasing a gift for shopper can indicate that shopper does not have permission to view the contents of a SSC named gift or only certain types of product items contained within any SSC. Thus when shopper attempts to view all of the SSCs belonging to shopper the visibility handler can omit the gift SSC from the listing.

Alternately shopper can indicate that they do not wish to have purchase information about their SSCs seen by a specific online retailer any purchase information collected by the socially collaborative shopping system regarding shopper and the specific online retailer would not be shared with the specific online retailer . The configuration of options for specifying these restrictions can be dependent upon the specific implementation and design of the socially collaborative shopping system .

The SSC controller can also handle performance of additional user selectable functions upon existing SSCs shared or individual that are currently unavailable in conventional online shopping systems. Examples of these functions can include but are not limited to copying another shopper s and or SSC adding a product item to your SCC from another shopper s and or SSC or wish list inviting another shopper or to make a collaborative purchase of product items and the like.

For example shopper can view the wish list of shopper for gift ideas. Deciding upon a product item from the wish list shopper can right click on the product item in shopper s wish list and select an option to add the product item directly to their gift SSC. Since shopper is purchasing the product item from the wish list of shopper the product item can remain on shopper s wish list not informing shopper that the product item has been bought.

It is important to remember that conventional online shopping systems at most allow shoppers and or the ability to view the shopping cart contents of other shoppers and or . That is in a conventional shopping system a shopper and or may view but cannot perform any operations upon the shopping cart of another.

Shoppers and using a shared SSC to make a collaborative purchase need not be members of each others social shopping networks . That is the shoppers and can simply desire to consolidate their purchases to take advantage of a promotion or increase their purchase power. For example an online retailer can offer a special discount for collaborative purchases made with a shared SSC that includes three or more shoppers and or purchasing their product items. Multiple shoppers and or purchasing product items from the online retailer can indicate that they would like to consolidate their purchases with any other shoppers and or in order to receive the discount.

All the product items added to the shared SSC can be purchased by the shoppers and as one logical transaction handled by the collaborative purchase manager of the socially collaborative shopping system . That is each shopper and can initiate a single purchase transaction for their portion of the shared SSC within the socially collaborative shopping system . The collaborative purchase manager can represent the software component configured to distribute the single purchase transaction made to the shared SSC to the corresponding online retailers . The distribution performed by the collaborative purchase manager can occur transparent to the shoppers and .

The collaborative purchase manager can be configured to separate the contents of the shared SSC by online retailer . A single purchase order can then be generated for each online retailer that includes the billing and shipping information for each shopper and or having product items in the order. Since multiple shoppers and can be involved with the single purchase order sent to each online retailer by the collaborative purchase manager the online retailers participating in the socially collaborative shopping system can be required to support order splitting. That is each online retailer can accept a purchase order where the product items are purchased by and shipped to different shoppers and or .

Further the treatment of the contents of a shared SSC as a single logical transaction can allow the collaborative purchase manager to apply discounts or other special shopping promotions entered by any shopper and or to the contents of the shared SSC as a whole. That is each shopper and can receive the benefit of the discount or promotion for product items they added to the shared SSC that qualify.

Building upon the previous example shopper can apply a coupon for a 10 price discount for all product items purchased from Store A to the shared SSC. All product items from Store A contained in the shared SSC regardless of which shopper or added the item can have its price reduced by 10 .

The application of discounts and or promotions to a shared SSC can be performed by the collaborative purchase manager in real time or near real time automatically reducing the purchase totals for each affected shopper and or .

Functionality of the collaborative purchase manager can be further expanded to provide shoppers and or with additional collaborative purchasing options. These additional collaborative purchasing options can include but not limited to allowing one shopper and or to pay for the entire shared SSC allowing shoppers and or to pay a flat amount towards the total cost of the shared SSC allowing shopper and or to pay for another shopper s and or potion of the shared SSC allowing a shopper and or to purchase a product item in the shared SSC that was selected by another shopper and or and the like.

For example parents can create a shared SSC with their son who is attending college in another state. When it is time to pay for the product items contained in the shared SSC the parents can select an option to pay for all the product items that were added to the shared SSC.

As shoppers and conduct their shopping activities other components and of the socially collaborative shopping system can activate to provide the shoppers and with a variety of collaborative shopping related information. The social alert handler can represent the software component configured to send shoppers and alert notifications when changes occur within the socially collaborative shopping system that meet the conditions of their alert definitions e.g. a specific product item goes on sale .

Many conventional online shopping systems have incorporated the use of alert notifications between a shopper or and an online retailers i.e. a shopper retailer alert . The socially collaborative shopping system can allow shoppers and to create alert definitions that include conditions based on their social shopping network i.e. a shopper shopper alert . The means e.g. text message email etc. utilized by the social alert handler to provide alert notifications can correspond to the capabilities of the communications handler .

For example shopper can be a member of shopper s social shopping network . Shopper can then create an alert definition requesting an alert whenever shopper creates a new SSC. Thus whenever the social alert handler detects or receives notification of shopper creating a new SSC the social alert handler can generate and present an alert message within the social shopping interface of shopper.

Throughout the shopping process the social recommendation engine can determine and present shoppers and with a variety of product recommendations based upon the SSC data of their SSCs purchase history not shown social shopping networks and the product data from online retailers . Recommendation information provided by the social recommendation engine can be presented in a variety of ways consistent with the implementation and design of the socially collaborative shopping system and can be influenced by user configurable settings within a shopper s and or user preferences .

For example the social recommendation engine can take the following information into account shopper s previous purchase of Product Z from Store A Product Z currently in a SSC individual or shared of shopper being purchased from Store D shopper s inclusion in shopper s social shopping network and a sale on Product Z at Store A . The social recommendation engine can present both shoppers and with recommendations to purchase Product Z from Store A .

Further the social recommendation engine can be configured to provide shoppers and associated with a shared SSC with recommendations based on commonalities between the shoppers and and contents of the shared SSC.

In one embodiment shoppers responsive for increased retailer sales such as via recommendations can receive incentives. Responsibility for sales can be tracked through click through analysis. For example a shopper looking through a SSC of another can notice that the collaborator has purchased a product and recommends it. The shopper therefore adds the product to his SSC and purchases it. The retailer can reward the collaborator who had originally purchased the product. This idea can be extended so that incentives are provided even if the item is added to a SSC but not purchased.

In one implementation the following actions can be tracked for incentive purposes a shopper adding an item to a cart because of viewing the item in an influencer s cart tracking whether the added item is converted to purchase and tracking all the responsible users who helped the buyer reach the influencer s cart. Any of a variety of incentive models can be used which include models based on game theory and mechanism design. Some game theoretic models can include but are not limited to network incentive Amway model cost sharing mechanism and marginal contribution Shapley value .

In another contemplated embodiment the social recommendation engine can request recommendation information about a specific shopper or and or product item from corresponding online retailers an online retail service of the online retailers can provide the recommendation information. The social recommendation engine can then aggregate the recommendation information from the various online retailers to present to the shopper or .

The social recommendation engine can also be configured to utilize information received from non retailer services . For example a shopper or can set user preferences to have the social recommendation engine utilize ratings from an independent testing laboratory when determining products to recommend.

While the social recommendation engine provides recommendations of product items to purchase the social promotion manager can make a shopper or aware of discounts and deals available for their SSCs individual or shared . The social promotion manager can determine potential promotions using the promotion data of online retailers and shopping data and related to the shopper or . Promotions identified by the social promotion manager can encompass multiple online retailers and or shoppers and .

For example a shopper or having Product Z in a stored SSC can be presented with all the promotions currently available for Product Z from all applicable online retailers by the social promotion manager . Examples of promotions can include but are not limited to a buy one get one free offer discounted shipping prices for orders of a specific value a clearance discount a bulk order discount a returning customer discount and the like.

Further the social promotion manager can work with the social recommendation engine to provide shoppers and with recommendations based on promotion data such as online retailers having additional benefits when purchases are made from them as a group. For example Store A and Store D can have a promotion expressed in their promotion data indicating that a SSC containing purchases from both online retailers receives free shipping. The social promotion manager can identify this promotion for shopper who s SCC contains product items from Store A . This information can be passed to the social recommendation engine that can then send shopper a recommendation to purchase a product item from Store D with their SCC to receive free shipping.

In addition to these various shopper centric functions components of the socially collaborative shopping system can also be configured to provide online retailers with the means to institute additional business models and features tailored to collaborative purchases and the social relationships contained in shoppers and social shopping networks . Components supporting these functions can include the data mining component the social alert handler the social recommendation engine and the social promotion manager .

The data mining component can represent the software component of the socially collaborative shopping system configured to collect raw data regarding shopping related activities e.g. product purchases product viewings performed by the shoppers and . The data mining component can then synthesize the raw data into processed data stored within the data store . The processed data can be provided to the corresponding online retailers and or non retailer services .

Since the raw data collected by the data mining component can include collaborative purchases made between shoppers and the processed data can carry forth the relationships between shoppers and or . For example instead of simply stating that shoppers and each purchased Product Z the processed data can capture that shopper made a purchase of Product Z shopper purchased Product Z from shopper s SSC and shopper is not a member of shopper s social shopping network . Thus the processed data generated by the socially collaborative shopping system can provide online retailers with a level of detail currently not available in conventional online shopping systems.

The detailed capture of shopper and information within the processed data can allow online retailers to expand their consumer base to shoppers and or contained in the social shopping networks of returning shoppers or . This can allow the online retailers to target these related shoppers and or with special promotions.

Online retailers can also utilize the processed data to define incentive models that reward shoppers and or whose actions within the socially collaborative shopping system generate positively affect the online retailer such as increasing product sales or product viewings or provide detailed product reviews or feedback. The social promotion manager can include an incentive handler configured to analyze the processed data in terms of the reward conditions of the incentive models for each shopper and .

In one example of an incentive reward structure the incentive model of Store A can define quantities of reward points that can be added to a shoppers and or account with the socially collaborative shopping system and or Store A in response to actions performed by other shoppers and or . For example shopper views i.e. clicks on hovers over information about Product Z which is being purchased from Store A from a SSC belonging to shopper. The incentive handler can recognize this action within the incentive model and provide shopper with the specified quantity of reward points. Should shopper perform any other shopping actions related to Store A and or Product Z that are defined within the incentive model e.g. purchasing Product Z from Store A adding Product Z to their SSC etc. the incentive handler can further increase shopper s amount of reward points.

It should be noted that this is a simple example of an incentive reward structure and that the incentive models utilized within the socially collaborative shopping system can depend upon the design and the implementation details of the socially collaborative shopping system as well as the design of the incentive model of the online retailer .

Rewards earned or near to being earned by a shopper or can be passed from the incentive handler to the social promotion manager for presentation within the social shopping interface or . Shoppers and or can then take the necessary actions to redeem use an earned reward or earn a reward that they are close to earning. Examples of rewards earned by shoppers and can include but are not limited to coupon codes free discounted product items gift items free discounted shipping rates early access to sale priced items and the like.

For example the incentive handler correlating processed data pertaining to shopper and the incentive model of Store Z can inform shopper that they have earned a coupon code for 10 off their next purchase from Store Z . Further shopper can be told that they will receive a coupon for 15 off should five members of their social shopping network purchase products recommended by or contained within a SSC of shopper.

The incentive handler can be configured to provide reward information to shoppers and at a time period predefined i.e. daily weekly etc. within the socially collaborative shopping system . The incentive models provided by the online retailers can conform to standards established by the socially collaborative shopping system .

The concept of collaborative purchases can lead to multiple online retailers providing shoppers and with sales structures or discounts for bulk group purchases from one online retailer or specific set of online retailers . For example promotion data for Store D can indicate that a purchase of four Product Zs qualifies for a 5 discount that can be increased by 2 for every Product Z above four purchased. In another example a shopper and can receive a 10 discount when a television is purchased from Store A and a recliner is purchased from Store D .

The role of the social alert handler can also be further expanded to provide additional benefit in the form of alert notifications between online retailers i.e. a retailer retailer alert . This increased functionality can require the online retailer to create a set of alert definitions not shown within the data store of the socially collaborative shopping system . For example Store A can receive alert notifications when a changes in price occurs for common product items sold by Store D .

The socially collaborative shopping system can also include other typical functions found in conventional online shopping systems such as wish lists user entered product recommendations product item feedback product item ratings surveys and the like. The configuration of the components of the socially collaborative shopping system previously detailed can be extended to utilize these typical data sources without significant deviation from this embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the socially collaborative shopping system can be implemented as a distributed computing system. In yet another embodiment the socially collaborative shopping system can incorporate the location awareness capability of mobile devices. For example a shopper or can receive an alert when a shopper or in their social shopping network is in or near to a physical store corresponding to an online retailer that they desire to make a purchase from. The alerted shopper or can then contact the mobile device of the other shopper or to ask them to make an in store pick up of the product item.

Network can include any hardware software and firmware necessary to convey data encoded within carrier waves. Data can be contained within analog or digital signals and conveyed though data or voice channels. Network can include local components and data pathways necessary for communications to be exchanged among computing device components and between integrated device components and peripheral devices. Network can also include network equipment such as routers data lines hubs and intermediary servers which together form a data network such as the Internet. Network can also include circuit based communication components and mobile communication components such as telephony switches modems cellular communication towers and the like. Network can include line based and or wireless communication pathways.

As used herein presented data stores and can be a physical or virtual storage space configured to store digital information. Data stores and can be physically implemented within any type of hardware including but not limited to a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory a digitally encoded plastic memory a holographic memory or any other recording medium. Data stores and can be a stand alone storage unit as well as a storage unit formed from a plurality of physical devices. Additionally information can be stored within data stores and in a variety of manners. For example information can be stored within a database structure or can be stored within one or more files of a file storage system where each file may or may not be indexed for information searching purposes. Further data stores and can utilize one or more encryption mechanisms to protect stored information from unauthorized access.

It should be appreciated that system represents one contemplated non limiting architecture for the disclosure and that others are contemplated. For example in one embodiment functionality of the social networking system specific to collaborative shopping can be directly incorporated into online retail services and need not be implemented into a separate social networking system . Likewise functionality or portions thereof of the socially collaborative shopping system can be incorporated directly into the social networking system as a new service of the social networking system . Specific artifacts such as the SSC widget for interacting among the indicated components can and are expected to vary in accordance with different implementation choices which are to be considered within scope of the disclosure.

Additionally in one contemplated embodiment the services provided by the socially collaborative shopping system can be conducted transparently to the online retailers and or social networking system . For example system can establish a single virtual shopper which is a user of system and or which behaves as if it is a single individual thus resulting in a unified shopping experience. The system can perform the splitting actions needed to allocate the contributions to the various shoppers that have been combined as the virtual shopper. This can include combining payments for a single purchase of the virtual shopper allocating rewards from the shopping etc. In this manner the system improvements can be implemented in any unmodified system yet still provide the collaborative shopping functionality or portions thereof as detailed herein.

It is possible that a subset of normally permitted functionality will be present when interacting with legacy systems. For example rewards offered for shopping may be attributed to the virtual shopper which system will allocate to the shoppers in accordance with established rules. Thus the rewards of the virtual shopper may not be unified with individual shopper s reward programs since the online retainer may not support combining rewards which would be supported in an embodiment where online retailer is aware of and participates in collaborative shopping via system .

As shown in diagram the SSC controller can provide data to various service providers such as other shoppers or internal components of the socially collaborative shopping system. The SSC controller can receive data from service consumers such as the non retailer services or online retailers of system . Service consumers can also represent other internal components of the socially collaborative shopping system such as updates to purchase totals calculated by the collaborative purchase manager.

Data can be bi directionally communicated with the social shopping interface and data store . Functions affecting SSCs invoked by shoppers via the social shopping interface can be sent to the SSC controller which can return the resultant information to the social shopping interface .

The SSC controller can request data from as well as save data to the data store . Requested data can be conveyed from the data store to the SSC controller which can then send the data to other components such as the social shopping interface .

Method can begin in step where the socially collaborative shopping system can receive the logon data for a shopper. The stored shopper data associated with the shopper s logon data can be access in step . In step the validity of the logon data can be determined.

When the logon data is invalid step can be performed where the shopper is notified of the invalid data. Flow of method can return to step from step to await the re entry of logon data. When the logon data is valid the product items for the shopper s wish list if applicable and any stored SSCs can be populated in step .

In step the relevant information for each product item contained in the shopper s wish list and or SSCs can be obtained from the originating online retailers. Promotions and recommendations applicable to the product items contained in the shopper s wish list and or SSCs can be aggregated in step .

In step feedback information from other shoppers contained in the social shopping network of the shopper logging on can be retrieved. Presentation of the shopper s wish list and or SSCs and the data collected in the previous steps within the social shopping interface can occur in step .

Method can begin in step where the socially collaborative shopping system can detect the addition of a product item to a SCC by a shopper. Shopper data can be queried for shoppers who are interested in a collaborative purchase of the product item in step . In step it can be determined if matches to the query of step were found.

When no other shoppers are interested in a collaborative purchase of the product item step can be performed where the socially collaborative shopping system takes no action. When there are other shoppers interested in making a collaborative purchase of the product item a listing of these other shoppers can be generated in step .

The listing can be presented to the shopper within the social shopping interface in step . In step the socially collaborative shopping system can receive a request from the shopper to invite a shopper selected from the listing to make a collaborative purchase of the product item.

The socially collaborative shopping system can sent an invitation to the shopper selected from the listing in step . In step a response to the invitation can be received from the selected shopper.

When the received response indicates that the selected shopper declines the invitation step can be performed where the socially collaborative shopping system informs the requesting shopper of the response. When the selected shopper accepts the invitation the socially collaborative shopping system can create a shared SSC containing the product item in step . In step the requesting shopper and the selected shopper can be associated with the shared SSC.

Method can begin in step where the socially collaborative shopping system can detect the addition of a product item to a SSC individual or shared by a shopper. The promotion data of the online retailers can be queried for the product item in step .

The existence of promotions from the online retailer for the product item can be determined in step . When no promotions are found the socially collaborative shopping system can take no action in step .

When promotions exist step can be performed where a listing of promotion can be generated for the product item. The promotion listing can be conveyed to the shopper or shoppers in the case of a shared SSC in step .

Method can begin in step where the socially collaborative shopping system can receive a purchase command for a shared SSC from a shopper. In step it can be determined if all the shoppers associated with the shared SSC are ready to conduct the purchase.

When one or more shoppers are not ready to conduct the purchase the socially collaborative shopping system can take no action in step . Flow of method can then return to step to await the next purchase command for the shared SSC.

In step the cost of each shopper s products items in the shared SSC can be calculated. It can be determined if any discounts and or promotions have applied to the shared SSC in step .

When a discount promotion has bee applied to the shared SSC step can be performed where the amount of the discount promotion can be determined for each shopper. Each shopper s cost as calculated in step can be adjusted by the determined amount in step .

Upon completion of step or when no discounts promotions have been applied to the shared SSC step can be performed where the payment and shipping information can be collected for each shopper. The product items contained in the shared SSC can then be separated by online retailer in step . In step a single purchase request can be submitted to each online retailer along with the payment and shipping information of the shoppers purchasing the product items.

Method can begin in step where the socially collaborative shopping system can collect raw shopping data for a shopper and their SSCs in accordance with the shopper s visibility rules. At a predetermined time the raw shopping data can be synthesized into processed data in step .

In step the processed data can be compared with applicable incentive models. Applicable rewards for the shopper can be determined in step . When a reward is applicable for the shopper the socially collaborative shopping system can generate a reward message in step .

In step the reward message can be conveyed to the shopper. Upon completion of step or when no rewards are applicable to the shopper the processed data can be optionally provided to the respectively online retailers in step .

In example User B can utilize a social networking site to view the SSC of User A via the SSC widget . User B can select an option from the SSC widget to add User A s SSC to their account within the socially collaborative shopping system .

The social networking site can authenticate both User A and User B to the socially collaborative shopping system . The socially collaborative shopping system can then read the SSC contained within User A s account and copy the SSC as a new SSC in User B s account .

It should be noted that in example both User B and User A are members of the socially collaborative shopping system .

In example User B can view the wish list of User D within the social networking site . User B can utilize a function of the SSC widget add User D s wish list as a SSC in their account of the socially collaborative shopping system .

The social networking site can automatically authenticate User B to the socially collaborative shopping system . The socially collaborative shopping system can then create a new SSC within User B s account that contains the products listed in the wish list of User D.

The socially collaborative shopping system can handle incompatible online retailers and or product items from the wish list in accordance with predefined rules governing operation of the socially collaborative shopping system .

It should be noted that in example only User B is a member of the socially collaborative shopping system .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be run substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be run in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

