---

title: Coronary sinus cannula with left ventricle lead and pressure tent
abstract: Techniques for biventricular pacing include a rigid shaped stylet approximating curves of a coronary sinus and branch vein. Some techniques include a parasternal coronary sinus cannula comprising an outer sheath and an obturator. The obturator is removeably disposed inside the outer sheath from a device end of the hollow shaft. The obturator includes a flexible stem that fits snugly inside the hollow shaft, a malleable core disposed inside the flexible stem, a tapered tip that extends beyond a cardiac end of the shaft when the obturator is disposed inside the outer sheath, and a sensor for determining properties of the subject in a vicinity of the tapered tip. An optional pressure-seal, such as a tent, connected to suction maintains negative intrepleural pressure for insertion under local anesthesia.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938310&OS=08938310&RS=08938310
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 08938310
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100707
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 223 603 filed Jul. 7 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e . This application also claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 304 221 filed Feb. 12 2010 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e . Furthermore this application also claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 318 682 filed Mar. 29 2010 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. HL 080152 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

One treatment for heart failure includes biventricular pacing BiVP by which electrical signals are introduced at electrodes at two or more locations distributed across both the right ventricle and left ventricle of the heart to induce efficient and regular heart activity. A device that provides for permanent biventricular pacing is a biventricular pacemaker which can be implanted through catheters without open chest or open heart surgery.

The process of implanting a left ventricle LV electrode for a BiVP pacemaker involves introducing a catheter two feet in length into a vein near a shoulder of the patient and navigating the catheter into the right atrium and thence into an orifice into the coronary sinus. Once the guiding catheter is positioned in the coronary sinus an angiogram is performed to delineate branch veins. Next a pacing lead containing one or two conductors and typically 3 mm 65 cm in length is advanced into a branch vein. The tip of the catheter is guided using any X ray fluoroscopy and an over the wire technique. Even so a skilled electrophysiologist with several hours of time available is unable to successfully place the electrode end of the LV lead in a branch vein about 10 percent of the time. In such cases the procedure is a failure and other means to treat heart failure have to be called upon including biventricular pacing via an epicardial open chest approach.

Some techniques are provided for placing a BiVP coronary sinus lead for any purpose including for permanent BiVP or for temporary BiVP with open chest surgery that is less invasive than open heart surgery. Some techniques are provided for even less invasive parasternal lead insertion. Some techniques are directed to parasternal procedures in general without negative room pressure.

In an approach designed by the current inventors BiVP is desired for a limited time e.g. about 24 hours after open heart surgery to help synchronize the heart recovering from ischemic arrest induced during the surgery. In such circumstances the inside of the heart is already accessible by virtue of normal procedures such as insertion of a cardioplegia cannula and a long catheter introduced at the patient s shoulder is both superfluous and unwieldy. During primary open heart surgery the outside of the left ventricle is also accessible and the left ventricle is mobilized so that a lead with desired electrode can be sewn directly in place. However during subsequent open heart surgery re operation adhesions that result from the primary operation introduce complications that advise against mobilizing the left ventricle and a different means is needed to place the left ventricle lead with its electrode more safely.

According to a first set of embodiments a lead for a pacing electrode includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a proximal device end and an electrode at a distal cardiac end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end and is positioned within the flexible material. A shaped stylet of rigid material is disposed inside the hollow tube at the distal end and is removable through the open proximal end. The shaped stylet is curved in a first plane to match a curve of a left ventricle portion of coronary sinus and curved in a different second plane to match a curve of a branch vein of the coronary sinus.

According to another set of embodiments a lead for a pacing electrode includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a proximal device end and an electrode at a distal cardiac end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end and is positioned within the flexible material. The proximal end is configured to be releasably connected physically and electrically to a pacing signal generator.

According to another set of embodiments a lead for a pacing electrode includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a proximal device end and an electrode at a distal cardiac end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end and is positioned within the flexible material. The distal end is configured to hook into a wall of a branch vein when a rigid stylet is retracted through the open proximal end.

According to another set of embodiments a lead for a pacing electrode includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a proximal device end and an electrode at a distal cardiac end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end and is positioned within the flexible material. The hollow tube and electrode have a diameter less than an inner diameter of a cardioplegia cannula catheter.

According to another set of embodiments a kit for a lead for a pacing electrode includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a proximal device end and an electrode at a distal cardiac end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end. A shaped stylet of rigid material is included for insertion and removal through the hollow proximal end to position in the hollow tube at the distal end. The shaped stylet is curved in a first plane to match a curve of a left ventricle portion of coronary sinus and curved in a different second plane to match a curve of a branch vein of the coronary sinus.

According to another set of embodiments a method for placing a left ventricle pacing electrode includes inserting a cardioplegia cannula catheter through an orifice from a right atrium to a coronary sinus. A distal cardiac end of a left ventricle lead that includes a shaped stylet in a hollow tube is fed through the cardioplegia cannula catheter into the coronary sinus and a branch vein of the coronary sinus. The cardioplegia cannula catheter is removed and the shaped stylus is retracted. The left ventricle lead includes the hollow tube made of flexible material and open at a proximal end and an electrode at a distal end of the hollow tube. An electrical conductor electrically connects the electrode to the proximal end and is positioned within the flexible material. The shaped stylet of rigid material is inside the hollow tube at the distal end and is removable through the open proximal end.

According to another set of embodiments a cannula includes an outer sheath and an obturator. The outer sheath includes a flexible hollow shaft of sufficient length to extend from outside a subject s body through a right parasternal mediastinotomy incision to a coronary sinus orifice in a right atrium of a heart of the subject. The obturator is removeably disposed inside the outer sheath from a proximal device end of the hollow shaft. The obturator includes a flexible stem that fits snugly inside the hollow shaft a malleable core disposed inside the flexible stem a tapered tip that extends beyond a distal cardiac end of the shaft when the obturator is disposed inside the outer sheath and a sensor for determining properties of the subject in a vicinity of the tapered tip.

According to another set of embodiments a kit for a cannula includes an outer sheath a obturator and a lead. The outer sheath includes a flexible hollow shaft of sufficient length to extend from outside a subject s body through a right parasternal mediastinotomy incision to a coronary sinus orifice in a right atrium of a heart of the subject. The obturator is reversibly insertable inside the outer sheath from a device end of the hollow shaft. The obturator comprises a flexible stem that fits snugly inside the hollow shaft a malleable core disposed inside the flexible stem a tapered tip that extends beyond a cardiac end of the shaft when the obturator is disposed inside the outer sheath and a sensor for determining properties of the subject in a vicinity of the tapered tip. The lead is insertable inside the outer sheath from a device end of the hollow shaft. The lead includes a hollow tube of flexible material open at a device end a first electrode at a cardiac end of the hollow tube a first electrical conductor that electrically connects the first electrode to the device end and that is positioned within the flexible material and a shaped stylet of rigid material inside the hollow tube at the cardiac end and removable through the open device end.

According to another set of embodiments a method for operating a cannula includes shaping a malleable core of an obturator to reach a coronary sinus orifice in a right atrium from an entry point in the right atrium. A cannula is inserted through a right parasternal mediastinotomy incision to a coronary sinus. The cannula comprises an outer sheath and the obturator. The outer sheath includes a flexible hollow shaft. The obturator is removeably disposed inside the outer sheath from a device end of the hollow shaft. The obturator comprises a flexible stem that fits snugly inside the hollow shaft the malleable core disposed inside the flexible stem and a tapered tip that extends beyond a cardiac end of the shaft when the obturator is disposed inside the outer sheath. The method further comprises removing the obturator and feeding a cardiac end of a left ventricle lead that includes a shaped stylet in a hollow tube through the outer sheath into the coronary sinus and a branch vein of the coronary sinus. The method further comprises retracting the shaped stylus and removing the outer sheath.

According to another set of embodiments a surgical pressure tent includes a rigid framework circumscribing a volume sufficient to accommodate manipulators to perform a surgery. The tent also includes a sheet of flexible material impervious to airflow and having a surgical opening with a sealing material along a perimeter of the surgical opening. The tent further includes a pressure hose fitting. The sheet of flexible material is attached to the framework to prevent airflow into the circumscribed volume except through the surgical opening. The sealing material forms a seal against a skin surface of a patient sufficient to withstand pressure differences up to about 10 centimeters of water cm H2O . The pressure hose fitting is configured to allow the circumscribed volume to be connected to an air pump to establish a target pressure inside the circumscribed volume.

According to another set of embodiments a method includes using the pressure tent for parasternal insertions.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus are described for operating a coronary sinus cannula e.g. to place a left ventricle lead for BiVP. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described below in the context of placement of left ventricle leads for permanent BiVP. However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments the apparatus or methods are used for temporary BiVP or for other purposes. For example the cannula is useful for all lead insertions or when a transvenous approach is not possible or practical or is not recommended. Lead insertions include lead insertions for right atrium RA or right ventricle RV leads for pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD . A standard transvenous approach is not possible or practical or is not recommended for thrombosis or obstruction of the superior vena cava. Examples include tumor induced mechanical obstruction. Caval thrombosis can be related to infection on chronically implanted pacemaker or ICD leads. Caval thrombosis also occurs spontaneously with pacemaker or ICD leads due to local inflammation or a severe intrinsic clotting response. Some patients also have a spontaneous tendency to form strictures in the venous system with or without the presence of foreign material. Certain forms of congenital venous abnormalities prevent a direct endocardial approach to the heart. Some surgical operations deliberately obstruct the vena cava with ties and or division.

A new technique is described herein to insert leads designed and approved for permanent pacing within the venous system of the heart e.g. the coronary sinus and its branches. The leads are guided into the coronary sinus via a coronary sinus cannula that is used with open heart surgery cardioplegia cannula or a modified cannula that can be used without open heart surgery parasternal coronary sinus cannula . The distal end the end that is to be disposed closest to the heart called the cardiac end hereinafter of the cannula is guided into position through a right atrium puncture. The lead includes a rigid shaped stylet that conforms to the expected curves of the coronary sinus and branch vein. The cardiac end of the lead is guided to an appropriate venous branch and the proximal end the end that is to be attached to an external device called the device end hereinafter of the lead is attached to an appropriate pacemaker.

In some embodiments the coronary sinus cannula is used during open heart open chest surgery. In some embodiments a parasternal coronary sinus cannula is included that is used without open chest surgery but guided into position using echocardiography pacing thresholds or other methods. An obturator an object used to obstruct a hole within the cannula is replaced by the lead such as a left ventricle lead with the shaped rigid stylet. An outer sheath of the parasternal coronary sinus cannula is removed and the device end is tunneled to the appropriated pacemaker.

In an illustrated embodiment the left ventricle lead used for this purpose is flexible bipolar in design with tip and ring electrodes 1 3 centimeters cm 1 cm 10meters apart. The length of the lead is about 25 centimeters short enough to conveniently pass through the cannula and long enough to be attached or tunneled to a permanent or temporary pacemaker. The lead is iso diametric and small enough to pass easily through an outer sheath of the cannula allowing the cannula to be withdrawn over it leaving the lead properly positioned in the coronary sinus. The lead has a central channel that contains a stylet that can be withdrawn. The shape of the stylet conforms to the anticipated curvature of the posterior left ventricle and coronary veins. That is a compound curve around the back of the heart following the curve of the coronary sinus ending in a compound curve to the right of an observer facing the orifice of the coronary sinus. A cardiac tip of the lead is angled slightly to help retain the lead in place. The stylet is removable after lead placement rendering the lead soft to minimize the chance of ventricular perforation. In some embodiments the tip contains physical emitters to assist in lead positioning these might include a bright light fiber optic source an ultrasound emitter an EMF transponder or other active or passive emitters of energy used for guidance. In some embodiments the stylet is not used and after placement in the coronary sinus conventional venography fluoroscopy and over the wire insertion techniques are used to guide the lead tip to a location appropriate for permanent pacing as judged by mechanical stability absence of phrenic nerve pacing and appropriate sensing impedance and pacing threshold.

Thus in some embodiments a lead for a pacing electrode includes one unipolar or two bipolar coiled conductors within a tube of flexible insulating material open at a device end. One or two contact electrodes are at a cardiac end of the lead. The coiled conductors electrically connect the electrode s to the device end and are positioned within the flexible material. A relatively rigid removable wire stylet is inserted inside the hollow channel from the device end throughout the length of the lead. The shaped stylet is curved in a first plane to match a curve of a left ventricle portion of coronary sinus and curved in a different second plane to match a curve of a branch vein of the coronary sinus. In some embodiments the device end is configured to be releasably connected physically and electrically to a pacing signal generator. In some embodiments the cardiac end is configured to hook into a wall of a branch vein when a rigid stylet is retracted through the open device end. In some embodiments the hollow tube and electrode have a diameter less than an inner diameter of a outer sheath for a coronary sinus cannula described below. Recent experience has shown the value of these leads.

During open heart open chest surgery a cardioplegia cannula which is a catheter with multiple access ports and stiffened by a removable rigid stylet enters the heart through a stab wound in the right atrium and is advanced to the orifice of the coronary sinus and then a short way about one or two centimeters into the coronary sinus . A purse string suture is sewn around the catheter to prevent fluid loss. The rigid stylet is removed and there is room between the cannula and the wall of the coronary sinus to allow normal flow of blood from the coronary sinus back into the right atrium. According to various embodiments the catheter of the cardioplegia cannula provides a path that is used to pass the LV lead into the coronary sinus during placement of the LV lead .

According to one embodiment the LV lead itself is stiffened with a shaped stylet of rigid material. The shaped stylet is curved in a first plane to match a curve of a left ventricle portion of the coronary sinus and curved in a different second plane to match a curve of a branch vein of the coronary sinus. The two curves meet at an angled portion that matches the angle between the branch vein and the coronary sinus in the heart.

The apparatus includes the catheter of the cardioplegia cannula with the straight rigid stylet removed and a LV lead inserted. In some embodiments the catheter includes a port for fluid profusion or removal during cardiac surgery. Leakage is prevented by a purse string suture circling the catheter . The LV lead includes a device end and a cardiac end with one or more electrodes not shown with the rigid shaped stylet in place in the cardiac end. The rigid shaped stylet is used by the surgeon to advance the cardiac end of the LV lead from the orifice through the coronary sinus and into one of the branch veins . The entire length of LV lead is smaller in diameter than the inside diameter of the cannula catheter so that the cardiac end can be fed through the catheter and so that the catheter can be removed past the device end while the LV lead stays in place.

In some embodiments the cannula includes one or more sensors or transmitters to help guide the cardiac end of the cannula into the coronary sinus orifice . In such embodiments the sensors or transmitters are in communication with a guidance system such as a general purpose computer comprising one or more chip sets programmed to perform one or more guidance functions. A chip set is described in more detail below with reference to .

In some embodiments the device end is configured to be releasably connected physically and electrically to a pacing signal generator without exceeding the inner diameter of the cannula catheter. In the illustrated embodiment this property is accomplished by a protruding electrically conducting peg connected to each conductor e.g. peg electrically connected to conductor and peg electrically connected to conductor both pegs collectively referenced as pegs attached to the flexible material . Although the pegs are shown spaced on opposite sides of the device face of the flexible tube in some embodiments the pegs are spaced differently to make clear which peg is associated with which of the spaced electrodes . In some embodiments other physical or electrical connections are made such as ring contacts along the outside of the tube or threaded tube end such as a male thread or both.

The entire length of LV lead has a diameter less than the diameter of the inside of the cannula catheter. The inner diameter of the cannula is about 0.25 cm the outer diameter of the lead is about 0.20 cm. The LV lead has a length sufficient to reach from the branch vein through the right atrium and outside the skin of the patient whose heart is to be paced about 25 50 cm in some embodiments. The electrodes are spaced apart by a distance of about one or two centimeters. The channel allows the rigid shaped stylet to be inserted into the LV lead up to the cardiac end and to be retracted through the device end after the LV lead is in place. The flexible tube adapts to the shape of the rigid shaped stylet when the stylet is positioned in the channel . The LV lead is depicted in without the rigid shaped stylet inserted in the channel . In some embodiments the stylet is replaced with a flexible over the wire type guidewire that passes out through an opening at and is advanced under fluoroscopic guidance to a desired CS branch. The lead is then advanced forward over this guidewire. Once the lead is positioned and tested the guidewire is withdrawn.

In the illustrated embodiment the cardiac end of the LV lead includes a protuberance that is salient when the rigid shaped stylet is retracted from the cardiac end . This protuberance serves as a wedge or hook to lodge the cardiac end in the branch vein until the lead is extracted. Thus the cardiac end is configured to hook into a wall of a branch vein when a rigid stylet is retracted through the open device end .

In the illustrated embodiment the cardiac end of the LV lead includes a guidance component used to determine the position of the tip relative to the anatomy of the heart during insertion of the LV lead through the coronary sinus and branch vein . Any guidance component known in the art may be used such as a bright light fiber optic source an ultrasound emitter an electromagnetic field EMF transponder or other active or passive emitters of energy. In various embodiments the component is a probe for a guidance system that is not within the LV lead but is within the obturator used to insert the cannula. Component in such embodiments is at least one of an X ray fluoroscope guidance system an echocardiography guidance system an electrical guidance system a thermography guidance system or a radio frequency identification RFID guidance system among others. In some embodiments guidance component is omitted and the surgeon works entirely by feel and orientation.

In the illustrated embodiment end of the cable includes two sockets socket and socket collectively called socket electrically connected by insulated conductors in cable to the pacing system . Peg and peg are configured to fit snugly into socket and socket respectively to make electrical and mechanical connection to cable .

The heart can be paced by signals delivered from pacing system to electrodes via cable and LV lead . Upon completion of temporary pacing the lead is extracted from the heart and the opening closed by further tightening purse string suture . Thus temporary BiVP is permitted even after re operation. For permanent pacing the lead is not removed but is secured in position by the atrial sealing component either purse string suture or a self sealing system described below . An extender is attached to the device end of the lead and tunneled subcutaneously to a generator pocket usually in the left subclavian region.

In step a purse string suture e.g. is sewn at the point where the cardioplegia cannula is to be inserted to prevent fluid leakage from the heart after insertion. In some embodiments step is performed after opening a patient s chest as part of open heart surgery e.g. bypass surgery.

In step the cardioplegia cannula stiffened by the rigid straight stylet perforates a blood vessel leading to the right atrium and is advanced into the right atrium. In step the surgeon uses the cardioplegia cannula stiffened by the rigid straight stylet to feel for the orifice to the coronary sinus and then advance the cardioplegia cannula stiffened by the rigid straight stylet a centimeter or so into the coronary sinus . This procedure is effective in introducing the cannula into the coronary sinus 99 of the time and thus suffers failure only about 1 of the time. This is a small failure rate compared to the 10 failure rate suffered in placing a LV lead for permanent BiVP using the standard long steerable catheter introduced near the patient s shoulder. The rigid straight stylet is then removed from the cannula during step leaving the cannula catheter in place.

In step the cardioplegia cannula catheter e.g. catheter is used according to accepted procedures for cardiac surgery e.g. to inflate a balloon introduce and suction fluids to induce ischemic arrest of heart activity sustain the heart during ischemic arrest perform any open heart surgical procedures and re profuse fluids to terminate ischemic arrest. In embodiments in which the cardioplegia cannula is used only to place permanent LV leads for permanent BiVP step is omitted.

In step the rigid shaped stylet is inserted into the LV lead through the open end of the channel and moved to the cardiac end of the LV lead . The shaped lead is then fed through the cardioplegia cannula catheter cardiac end first past orifice into coronary sinus and down into a branch vein in the epicardial surface of the left ventricle. In some embodiments the guidance component at the cardiac end is used with a corresponding guidance system not shown to assist the surgeon in feeding the cardiac end into the appropriate branch vein during step .

In step the catheter of the cardioplegia cannula is removed leaving the LV lead in place by sliding the catheter past the device end of the LV lead . Such removal is made possible by a LV lead with a diameter everywhere less than an inner diameter of the catheter such as a constant diameter lead also called an iso diametric lead. This is also permitted by a device end that is removeably connected to the pacing system so that the pacing system does not block the removal of the catheter .

In step the rigid shaped stylet is retracted through the open end of channel at the device end of the LV lead . The removal of the shaped stylet from the cardiac end allows the protuberance to engage the walls of the branch vein . This fixes the LV electrode in place in the branch vein . The purse string suture is tightened to suture to prevent fluid leakage from the heart.

In step the device end of the LV lead is electrically and physically connected to the pacing system e.g. to the end of cable connected to a LV pacing signal generator not shown of the pacing system .

In step the heart is paced using the pacing system and the LV lead as well as other leads placed in the right atrium and right ventricle not shown as is well known in the art. For temporary pacing post surgery especially post re operation step is performed for a limited time e.g. for 24 hours. For permanent BiVP step continues for a much longer time e.g. months and years .

In step the LV lead is retracted by pulling on the device end of the LV lead causing the protuberance to disengage from the wall of the branch vein. The LV lead is pulled out of the heart and out of the chest of the patient. The purse string suture is then tightened to close a flap and prevent fluid leakage from the heart. In embodiments for permanent BiVP step is omitted.

Thus techniques are provided for placement of a left ventricle lead for permanent or temporary BiVP and for post primary and re operative cardiac surgery.

In some embodiments a specially designed parasternal coronary sinus cannula is inserted into the heart without open heart surgery through an opening in the patient s anterior chest resulting from a parasternal medial sternotomy such as a right parasternal mediastinotomy RPMS . As described in more detail below the parasternal cannula includes an obturator that perforates the blood vessel into the heart and is advanced into the orifice of the coronary sinus but a balloon need not be deployed fluids need not be pumped in and ischemic arrest is not induced as occurs for open heart and bypass surgery. In some embodiments a balloon catheter is inserted through the cannula into the coronary sinus and an occlusive balloon is inflated for a coronary sinus angiogram but ischemic arrest is not induced. Instead the obturator and balloon catheter are removed and the LV lead with shaped stylet or commercially available guidewire is inserted through the catheter of the cannula still in place in the orifice to the coronary sinus and the lead is advanced into place so that the cardiac end is lodged in a selected branch vein.

The advantages of this approach are many including 1 minimally invasive 2 faster than any known technique 3 higher success rate than any known technique 4 applicable in presence of pericardial adhesions 5 adaptable to local anesthesia and 6 performed in supine position which minimizes physiologic compromise of lateral thoracotomy.

The outer sheath such as tear away outer sheath includes a flexible hollow shaft of sufficient length about 25 cm to extend from outside a subject s body through a right parasternal mediastinotomy incision to a coronary sinus orifice in a right atrium of a heart of the subject. In some embodiments with a LV lead of small enough outer diameter to fit entirely within this hollow shaft any flexible outer sheath or introducer that can be retracted from the incision may serve this function. In some embodiments an LV lead has a larger diameter connecter on its device end for connecting to a pacemaker and a tear away outer sheath is desirable. Tear away outer sheaths or tear away introducers are known such as a tear away sheath introducer kit from REMINGTON MEDICAL INC. of Alpharetta Ga. USA or the introducer sheath from W. L. GORE ASSOCIATES INC. of Newark Del. Such known sheaths would be chosen to include a flexible shaft that can assume an appropriate shape.

The obturator stem is made of flexible material that can be shaped to define the bent shape of the cannula. The stem fits snugly inside the hollow shaft of the outer sheath to block fluid flow through the hollow shaft. Inside the flexible stem is a malleable core made of a material such as a metal wire that can be shaped and hold a given shape. At a cardiac end of the flexible stem is a tapered tip e.g. tip used to puncture one or more tissue surfaces or slide into orifices as the cannula is inserted into a subject s body. In an illustrated embodiment the tapered tip is made of a soft plastic.

The obturator is removeably disposed inside the outer sheath such as tear away outer sheath from a device end of the hollow shaft. The tapered tip such as soft plastic tip extends beyond a cardiac end of the hollow shaft when the obturator is disposed inside the outer sheath such as tear away outer sheath .

In the illustrated embodiment the obturator include sensor suite of one or more sensors or transmitters to measure the physical properties inside the subject in a vicinity of the tip. For example in various embodiments the sensor suite includes one or more sensors of a sensor group including a temperature sensor an ultrasound sensor a pressure sensor an oxygen sensor and a flow velocity sensor. Any sensors known in the art and small enough to fit inside the obturator may be used. For example in various embodiments the sensor suite includes one or more of an intracardiac echocardiography transducer e.g. on an Acunav diagnostic ultrasound catheter from ACUSON CORP. of Mountain View Calif. a micromanometer pressure sensor e.g. on a Mikro Tip catheter from MILLAR INSTRUMENTS INC. of Houston Tex. a thermistor e.g. from ATC SEMITEC LTD of Northwich United Kingdom an oximetry sensor e.g. from oximetry catheter of EDWARDS LIFESCIENCES CORPORATION of Irvine Calif. and a flow velocity sensor e.g. on a catheter from MILLAR INSTRUMENTS INC. of Houston Tex. The measurements are used to locate the orifice of the coronary sinus through which blood flows with potentially detectably different values of one or more of these properties.

One or more sensor wires traverse the stem from the sensor suite to a device end of the obturator to communicate measurements from the sensor suite to an external processor such as guidance system described above with reference to . In some embodiments one or more wires are included for each sensor or transmitter. In other embodiments a single wire is shared and the sensors and transmitters communicate with the external processor such as guidance system using one or more packet switching protocols well known in the art of communications. Such packets can be utilized by a chip set such as chip set depicted in disposed in sensor suite and programmed for such a purpose. In some embodiments wireless data transmission is used and one or more wires are omitted.

In some embodiments the cannula is inserted based only on tactile feedback to the surgeon and sensor suite is omitted.

In some embodiments additional components are included that would allow the RPMS approach to be used under local anesthesia or without positive pressure ventilation or both. In various embodiments the additional components include one or more of 1 an echo guided system for percutaneous right atrial puncture from the parasternal incision location 2 a self sealing system for atrial puncture or 3 an air lock seal at the skin level or some combination. Component is provided with an acoustic reflector or transmitter in sensor suite . Components and are depicted in and and .

The cannula also includes an atrium wall self sealing system in an initial configuration. The self sealing system is releasably attached to the outer sheath at a distance from the cardiac end that corresponds to a distance from the entry point on the atrium wall to the coronary sinus orifice. Upon release the self sealing system detaches from the outer sheath and embeds on the wall of the atrium. When the cannula is removed the self sealing system closes with enough pressure to preclude fluid loss from the atrium of the heart e.g. with sufficient force to withstand physiological pressures induced by heart contractions. Any method may be used to form the self sealing system and release it from the cannula . For example the self sealing system can be released by pressure or by a lever pulled from the device end of the cannula or by an electric pulse sent to the system by a wired or wireless channel.

Any component may be used for the self sealing system . In some embodiments self sealing plugs for arteriotomies are used. For example an ANGIO SEAL vascular closure device of ST. JUDE MEDICAL Minnetonka Minn. or an PERCLOSE suture device PERCLOSE INC . Redwood City Calif. is used alone or in some combination. The Angio Seal Vascular Closure Device VIP Platform consists of the Angio Seal VIP device an insertion sheath an arteriotomy locator modified dilator and a guidewire. The Angio Seal VIP device is composed of an absorbable collagen sponge and a specially designed absorbable polymer anchor that are connected by an absorbable self tightening suture. The device seals and sandwiches the arteriotomy between its two primary members the anchor and collagen sponge. Hemostasis is achieved primarily by the mechanical means of the anchor arteriotomy collagen sandwich which is supplemented by the coagulation inducing properties of the collagen. The Angio Seal Vascular Closure Device components are not made from latex rubber. The Perclose suture device incorporates two components a sheath holding one or two pairs of needles connected by a suture loop and a rotating barrel used to facilitate the positioning of the device before needle deployment and to guide the needles during their travel through the subcutaneous track. The device uses a percutaneous means to suture and close the arterial site. Both devices are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Thus the cannula includes a skin level pressure seal collar forming an air tight seal around the outer sheath for maintaining a pressure difference between a pressure in a pericardial space of a subject and ambient pressure outside the subject. This seal is water tight in preferred embodiments. Connection to a negative pressure source maintains the pressure difference. Cannula also includes a self sealing system disposed on the outer sheath for forming a pressure seal at a right atrium wall around a lead deposited by the cannula.

In step access is provided to a right atrium of a heart of a subject such as an animal or human patient using RPMS. In step a cardiac end of the cannula is localized in the coronary sinus orifice. In step a coronary sinus angiogram is performed to ensure placement of the cardiac end of the cannula. In step a left ventricle LV lead is inserted in a branch vein of the coronary sinus. In step the access is closed. In step the subject s heart is paced using the LV lead.

In the illustrated embodiment step to provide access to the right atrium includes steps and . In step a right parasternal mediastinotomy RPMS is performed. In some embodiments the general RPMS is performed during step including placing subject on a fluoroscopy table administering general anesthesia applying positive pressure ventilation. A surgical RPMS is performed including a possible cartilage resection and pericardiotomy. A right atrial purse string suture with snare is inserted at the entrance point of the right atrial appendage. The right atrium is punctured inside the purse string suture for inserting the cannula.

In some embodiments the pressure seal collar is installed on the cannula in step so that positive pressure ventilation need not be applied during step . In some embodiments the pressure tent described below with reference to is installed and used in step instead of the collar. In some embodiments the self sealing system is installed on the cannula in step so the purse string and snare need not be surgically inserted during step allowing the RPMS to be performed laparoscopically with local anesthesia instead of with general anesthesia during step .

In the illustrated embodiment step to localize the cardiac end of the cannula in the coronary sinus orifice includes steps and . In step the parasternal coronary sinus cannula is inserted into the right atrium. For example in some embodiments cannula is inserted into the surgically punctured right atrium inside the purse string suture. In some embodiments cannula is inserted in an RPMS incision and self sealing system is deployed at the right atrium wall at a point of entry during step . In step the tapered tip of the cannula e.g. soft plastic tip of obturator is guided into the orifice of the coronary sinus e.g. assisted by tactile feedback with fluoroscopy or echocardiography or using one or more sensors in sensor suite .

In the illustrated embodiment step to perform a coronary sinus angiogram includes steps and . In step the obturator is removed. For example the obturator is retracted through the device end of the outer sheath such as tear away outer sheath . In step a coronary sinus angiogram is performed with a balloon catheter omni opaque dye and a fluoroscope. This is done to ensure that the cardiac end of the outer sheath is in the coronary sinus orifice. In some embodiments the balloon and dye are included in the obturator and step is performed before step . In some embodiments step is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment step to insert a LV lead in a branch vein includes steps and . In step the rigid shaped stylet is inserted into the LV lead through the open end of the channel and moved to the cardiac end of the LV lead . The shaped lead is then fed cardiac end first through the device end of the outer sheath of the cannula past orifice into coronary sinus and down into a branch vein in the epicardial surface of the left ventricle. In some embodiments the guidance component at the cardiac end is used with a corresponding guidance system to assist the surgeon in feeding the cardiac end into the appropriate branch vein during step .

In step the rigid shaped stylet is removed to fix the LV lead in place. The rigid shaped stylet is retracted through the open end of channel at the device end of the LV lead . The removal of the shaped stylet from the cardiac end allows the protuberance to engage the walls of the branch vein . This fixes the LV electrode in place in the branch vein .

In some embodiments such as embodiments in which X ray fluoroscopy is not employed the stylet is replaced by an over the wire guidewire well known in the art. The over the wire guidewire is inserted and used to guide the tip of the LV lead into the branch vein of the coronary sinus during step and the guidewire is removed during step . The over the wire technique for final positioning is the current standard for endocardial CS lead insertion.

In step the outer sheath is removed leaving the LV lead in place. In some embodiments the outer sheath is retracted leaving the LV lead in place by sliding the outer sheath past the device end of the LV lead . Such removal is made possible by an iso diameter LV lead with a diameter everywhere less than an inner diameter of the outer sheath. This is also permitted by a device end that is removeably connected to the pacing system so that the pacing system does not block the removal of the outer sheath. In some embodiments the outer sheath is a tear away outer sheath that is removed by initiating the separation process for the sheath and pulling the two halves past the LV lead and through the RPMS incision. Such embodiments are useful for a cardiac end of the LV lead that is suited for connection to a pacemaker but too large to pass through the inner diameter of the outer sheath.

In the illustrated embodiment step to close the incisions includes steps and . In step the sealing structure in the wall of the atrium is closed. In some embodiments the purse string suture is tightened to form suture to prevent fluid leakage from the heart. In some embodiments the self sealing system automatically closes around the LV lead preventing fluid leakage at physiological pressures.

In step the device end of the LV lead is tunneled to a pacing system for the LV lead such as a permanent or temporary pacemaker using any method known in the art such as a lead extender and lead tunneler. In step the pressure collar is removed if present. In some embodiments the pressure tent described below is removed during step . Remaining incisions are closed using multilayer sutures e.g. at the level of the pericardial sac cartilage resection muscles subcutaneous tissue and skin. A pursestring suture in the muscles of the chest wall is placed and tied before removing the pressure collar or pressure tent to preserve intrapleural pressure

In step the heart is paced using the pacing system or pacemaker and the LV lead as well as other leads placed in the right atrium and right ventricle not shown as is well known in the art. For temporary pacing post surgery especially post re operation step is performed for a limited time e.g. for 24 hours. For permanent BiVP step continues for a much longer time e.g. months and years .

Thus techniques are provided for placement of a left ventricle lead for permanent or temporary BiVP using RPMS instead of open heart open chest surgery and using the parasternal coronary sinus cannula.

In various embodiments additional components are included that allow the RPMS approach to be used without positive pressure ventilation in lieu of the pressure seal collar . These components comprise various embodiments of a surgical pressure tent and are depicted in through . In some embodiments the pressure tent is used for parasternal operations not involving leads or lead insertion. In various embodiments exchange of leads introducers obturators sensors and catheters are accomplished without pneumothorax and collapse of the right lung. The proposed pressure tent includes external airlocks at two levels and a suction source to prevent or reverse leakage of air into the pleural space. These embodiments allow percutaneous positioning and exchange of LV RV and RA electrodes for example with prevailing ventilation but without pneumothorax or bleeding.

These embodiments involve a surgical pressure tent that maintains pressure in the work space at about 10 centimeters of water cm H2O . When this communicates with the pleural space instrumentation will be possible without physiologic compromise due to loss of negative intrapleural pressure. Negative pressure in the tent is maintained by a pressure seal between an inner chamber and the skin a pressure seal between the chamber and the atmosphere that allows passage of instruments catheters and leads and connection to a negative pressure source e.g. a Pleurevac or chest bottles maintaining a negative pressure of about 5 to 10 cm H2O. Some embodiment also include a clear viewing window or an airlock chamber for passing instruments into the work space or sealed arm access holes or smaller sealed access holes for cautery pacing wires suction and similar equipment or some combination. In some embodiments the tent is lightweight to avoid compromise of respiration. In some embodiments the pressure tent is suspended from an overhead arm to avoid excessive pressure on the anterior chest of the patient.

There are a number of important advantages to various embodiments. First the flexible walls of the tent in some embodiments give the surgeons visual confirmation that negative pressure is being maintained because the walls of the tent will be sucked inward as long as there is negative pressure. Second in some embodiments the skin seal is a large ring about three or four inches in diameter. This provides a larger space to work and even allows a conventional parasternal incision if that became desirable. Furthermore in some embodiments the tent is equipped with sealed ports or sleeves that allow the surgeon s arms or robot arms to be placed inside the tent e.g. with sterile gloves .

The top panel is a rigid material and at least a portion is transparent e.g. made of poly methyl methacrylate to view a surgical port in the bottom of the device e.g. port depicted in . Thus in some embodiments the rigid framework includes a top panel comprising a transparent portion that permits a view of the surgical opening. For example in the illustrated embodiment half is a transparent view port and the other half includes an outer door to provide access to an equipment tray chamber e.g. chamber depicted in and . The outer door is attached to the other portions of the top panel by a hinge . The perimeter of the door is airtight when closed using flexible seals sufficient to substantively prevent airflow around the outer door at pressure differences up to about 10 cm H2O. Thus in some embodiments the top panel further comprises an outer door that when open permits access to at least a portion of the circumscribed volume and when closed seals sufficiently to withstand pressure differences of about 10 cm H2O.

The side and bottom walls are formed by a sheet of a flexible material attached to the frame . In some embodiments the pressure tent consists of a rigid inner frame covered on sides and bottom with flexible air tight transparent plastic. In some embodiments the materials are chosen for the frame and sheet of flexible material such that the tent is lightweight to avoid compromising respiration of the patient by excessive weight on a chest of the patient if the surgical procedure is prolonged. In some embodiments the framework includes one or more hooks not shown so that the tent can be suspended from above so that the full weight of the tent is not on the chest of the patient. The sheet of flexible material is attached to the rigid framework in any manner known in the art to form an enclosure that is airtight at pressures up to about 10 cm H2O except for a surgical port in a bottom portion of the pressure tent . Thus the sheet of flexible material is attached to the framework to prevent airflow into the circumscribed volume except through the surgical opening.

The top panel also includes a pressure hose fitting so that a pressure difference can be established or maintained or both inside the pressure tent when the surgical port is sealed against a surface such as the skin of a patient. In other embodiments the pressure hose fitting is placed elsewhere on an outer surface of the tent such as attached to a portion of the frame along a side of the tent. Thus the pressure hose fitting is configured to allow the circumscribed volume to be connected to an air pump to establish a target pressure inside the circumscribed volume. For example in some embodiments a cylindrical connector allows connection to a PLEUR EVAC of Teleflex Inc Research Triangle Park N.C. chest bottle set or other system for providing low level suction while allowing a high flow rate for any air leakage.

Thus the pressure tent includes a sheet of flexible material impervious to airflow and having a surgical opening with a sealing material along a perimeter of the surgical opening. The sheet of flexible material is attached to the framework to prevent airflow into the circumscribed volume except through the surgical opening. The sealing material forms a seal against a skin surface of a patient sufficient to withstand pressure differences up to about 10 cm H2O.

In the illustrated embodiment the inner diameter of the surgical port is about 10 cm for allowing surgery to insert leads for cardiac pacing equipment.

The inner door in the equipment tray chamber is closed when the outer door is open to retain low pressure in the inner chamber over the surgical port . With outer door open equipment is placed in equipment tray chamber . Then outer door is closed and sealed. Then the inner door is opened to move the equipment to the inner chamber that includes the surgical port .

For equipment transfer the chamber is accessed externally by releasing a latch to open the outer door . The inner door remains locked as equipment is placed in the chamber . After equipment is placed in the chamber the outer door is closed. The hinged inner door is then unlatched from below to release the equipment into the inner chamber where the equipment can be used. Thus the inner chamber comprises an operative portion of the circumscribed volume. In the illustrated embodiment the outer door opens superiorly and laterally to provide access that maximizes the size of the equipment that can fit in the chamber . For the same reason the inner door opens toward the inner chamber in the illustrated embodiment. In other embodiments either or both doors may open in a different direction. Thus in some embodiments there is a chamber within the circumscribed volume. The chamber has an inner door that when open permits access to an operative portion of the circumscribed volume that includes the surgical opening and when closed blocks access to the operative portion of the circumscribed volume and seals sufficiently to withstand pressure differences of about 10 cm H2O. The outer door when open permits access to the chamber .

In some embodiments the sheet of flexible material further comprises a plurality of sealed arm access ports to allow access for hands of one or more surgeons while maintaining the pressure differences of about 10 cm H2O. For example in the illustrated embodiment the perimeter of the tent includes two arm access ports and collectively referenced as arm access ports hereinafter . In various other embodiments six or eight sealed arm access ports with sleeves and gloves surround the device for access by operators. Often only one or two operators 2 or 4 hands are involved in a surgery and two to four sealed arm access ports are sufficient. The surgeon s or robot s arms enter the tent through these ports . In some embodiments each arm access port is attached to flexible plastic arm sleeves with gloves at one end and elastic rings where they attach to the vertical side walls of the tent . Each ring is covered with an air tight plastic seal. Puncture of the seal provides access for one gown and glove covered arm. The elastic ring creates an air tight seal. Such sleeve and glove or sealed openings are well known in the art.

In some embodiments with hinged vertical members of the frame the structure can be partially collapsed for storage by rotating top and bottom panels in opposite directions. is a block diagram illustrating an elevation view of a side of a collapsed surgical pressure tent for parasternal insertions according to an embodiment. In some embodiments vertical support posts of frame include hinges at top and bottom. These posts make up a portion of the frame which maintains height. In the illustrated embodiment the tent is partially collapsible for easier storage by rotating the top counterclockwise and the bottom clockwise which angulates hinges in the vertical support posts .

In various other embodiments many alternatives to the illustrated pressure tent are implemented including both larger and smaller versions. For example a miniaturized pressure tent is appended to the introducer in and . Suitable gels for the skin seal are available such as used in the GELPORT Applied Medical Resources Corp. of Rancho Santa Margarita Calif. . In some embodiments the pressure tent is disposable. In some embodiments reusable seals are available to cover the arm access ports that have been punctured.

An example method for using the surgical pressure tent includes the following steps. The patient is placed in supine position on an operating table and prepared with antibiotics and sedation as necessary. The patient s skin is prepped in the surgical area. The surgical area of the chest wall is anesthetized with local anesthesia. The surgical pressure tent is expanded from its collapsed storage state. One or more surgeons scrub dress in surgical gowns and put on surgical gloves. A support team lowers the surgical pressure tent onto the chest of the patient with the surgical port centered on the surgical area. The perimeter of the field is covered with sterile drapes. The pressure hose fitting is connected to a suction source. The arm access ports are punctured as appropriate by the surgeons. The surgical procedure begins. Surgical equipment is loaded into the equipment tray chamber as desired. If a surgeon must drop out reusable seals for the arm access ports are put in place. After surgery the surgical pressure tent is restored for reuse or if disposable is discarded.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to communicate measurements for a parasternal CS cannula. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

