---

title: Method and apparatus for navigating services
abstract: An approach is provided for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. Location information associated with a device is received. Menu items associated with one or more services based on the location information are selected. Presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge is caused, at least in part. The bridge is a user interface element common to the services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336320&OS=09336320&RS=09336320
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09336320
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100219
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. Many of these services are provided to users via devices and or via a communication network e.g. the Internet . Web pages of online content including services have been navigated using navigation bars that include menu items. However these navigation bars frequently do not reflect contextual information associated with the services and or the user of the services. As such many of these navigation bars are static and cannot react to contextual changes that may affect content. Further it is technically difficult for websites that do personalize or customize content for users to streamline such navigation bars for use with multiple services and or websites.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for a bridge that provides available services based at least in part on location information.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving location information associated with a device. The method also comprises selecting menu items associated with one or more services based on the location information. The method further comprises causing at least in part presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge. The bridge is a user interface element common to the services.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to receive location information associated with a device. The apparatus is also caused to select menu items associated with one or more services based on the location information. The apparatus is further caused to causing at least in part presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge. The bridge is a user interface element common to the services.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive location information associated with a device. The apparatus is also caused to select menu items associated with one or more services based on the location information. The apparatus is further caused to causing at least in part presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge. The bridge is a user interface element common to the services.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving location information associated with a device. The apparatus also comprises means for selecting menu items associated with one or more services based on the location information. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge. The bridge is a user interface element common to the services.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing the availability of services based on location information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to provide navigation information associated with the availability of services via a bridge. As used herein the term bridge refers to a user interface element that provides for the navigation of content which may include services. Although various embodiments are described with respect to a bridge platform it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other platforms such as content platforms as well as browsers and applications associated with user equipment. In certain embodiments the bridge is a single user interface element that is distinct from the underlying services and consistent across multiple services content applications etc. Further the bridge may include menu items and sub menu items embedded within the menu items that can be utilized to navigate and or select services and or other content. In some embodiments the bridge is implemented using a code module e.g. a JavaScript library that is separate and reusable for rendering web pages associated with the services.

By way of example users via user equipment UEs may attempt to access content e.g. a service from for instance a content platform over a communication network . In one embodiment one or more services may be hosted on the content platform . A content database can store content associated with and or provided by the content platform . Further the content platform can utilize a bridge from a bridge platform to provide access and navigation information for utilizing the services hosted on the content platform . In one embodiment the bridge may be common to one or more of the services of the content platform . The bridge platform may additionally have a bridge database that includes information e.g. service information available languages a mapping of available services to locations etc. that may be utilized to develop bridges for content platforms and or applications e.g. a web browser on a UE . Further in certain embodiments the content database and bridge database may be included in the UE and may be utilized to locally navigate services. For example the operating system may provide a bridge to applications and or other means to utilize services e.g. web portals widgets etc. . When the location of the user changes the operating system can determine the location change and modify the bridge to reflect available services to the user at the location.

In yet another embodiment developers of content e.g. web content web services media such as video music pictures etc. may design web sites and or application programming interfaces APIs for use with the bridge platform . As such the bridge may include an embeddable code module such as a JavaScript library that can be hosted on the bridge platform . For example the code can be embedded in a web page associated with the content platform . Further the bridge has the ability to determine the location of the user s UE and customize the presentation of the bridge e.g. navigation bar based on services available to the user at the determined location. Approximate location can be determined by using the current cell identifier the current internet protocol IP address global positioning system GPS assisted GPS A GPS or other means. The location of the UE can be determined for instance by the bridge platform as further detailed and in the processes of . Moreover the bridge can present an interactive menu to enable the user to select and utilize services available to the user. To present the interactive menu the bridge database may include a list of services available in a particular location e.g. a region such as a country state etc. . By way of example the availability of services content etc. at a location can be affected licensing agreements regulatory restrictions and the like. In certain embodiments the bridge can be utilized to block particular services based on the corresponding availability information. Further the bridge platform can include menu item information and services information in multiple languages. As such the location of the UE can be utilized to determine the language the menu item information is provided in.

Thus the bridge is geo aware and is able to determine services that are available in a certain location. Location can also be used to select the language English Spanish Korean etc. used by the bridge. In this manner the service provider can advantageously present a consistent and reusable bridge to users customized according to the respective locations of the users or users UEs . Further the service provider can provide a single code library to developers of content platforms to embed the bridge within the web page of the developer thereby advantageously reducing the need to manually update the code of each corresponding service to reflect any changes to the items available in the bridge. In this way the bridge platform can provide a means for creating and maintaining menus and geo aware bridges for presentation on a UE . The bridge platform can be implemented using various computing components such as components described in and .

As noted above the user of the UE may navigate to a web page associated with a content platform . The web pages hosted on the content platform may have the bridge embedded within them. The bridge platform can determine the location of the user and select menu items associated with the services available at the location. The bridge platform may additionally choose services available on one or more content platforms and need not limit the menu items presented to the content platform . Further in certain embodiments the content platforms may be related and include related services. For example the services may be provided by the same service provider or associated service providers. Further the content may be customized for particular users by creating a user account and sign on for each user. In certain scenarios the bridge database includes user account and sign on information. Further the bridge database can determine access of the user to premium services e.g. based on account information purchase information subscription etc. .

As previously noted some services of the content platform may be available in certain locations but not in other locations. Thus a UE accessing the content platform from the United States may have different services available and presented in the bridge than another UE that accesses the content platform from Canada. For example due to licensing agreements media services may have different content e.g. audio and video files available in Canada than in the United States. In another example regulatory issues such as restrictions in Indonesia or India that limit online file sharing services may limit accessibility of content. In certain embodiments the menu items may look identical but lead to different services. For example a music service may be available in both Canada and the United States however in Canada the user may be entitled to unlimited access to certain music while in the United States the user may be entitled to limited access. This access may be agreed upon by the service provider and copyright holders. When the user is presented the bridge and menu items on the web page the user can provide input to the UE to select one of the menu items in the bridge. As the user selects the menu item additional menu items or sub menu items may be presented to the user for selection. Some selected menu items may be utilized to cause initiation of one of the services corresponding to the menu item. Examples of services include media services such as music services e.g. subscription music services downloadable music services streaming music services etc. video services e.g. streaming video downloadable video etc. picture services or the like news services map services social networking services purchase related services e.g. an online store electronic mail services calendar services file management services etc.

In certain embodiments the UE operating system and or applications may be utilized to determine the location of the UE and the available services. Further instead of utilizing a web browser the UE may utilize an operating system or application bridge e.g. a navigation bar for presentation and navigation of menu items to the user. Moreover the bridge can be persistent over screens of application or operating system information e.g. different services may be presented on the screen while displaying the bridge .

As shown in the system comprises the user equipment having connectivity to the content platform and bridge platform via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user that allows an enumeration of a list of available services and selection from the list.

By way of example the UE bridge platform and content platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The communication interface can be used to communicate with UEs content platforms or other devices associated with the communication network . The runtime module can receive information from the UE via the communication interface via methods such as internet protocol or other available communication method. In certain embodiments the UE requests a web page from a content platform that utilizes a bridge from the bridge platform . The web page may have the bridge embedded e.g. as a frame or element associated with the web page such as or a Hyper Text Markup Language HTML div element within it. As such the bridge may be one component of the web page which may include other components such as content e.g. media such as images video audio etc. text services etc. .

The runtime module may utilize the location determination module and service determination module to determine the content to present via the bridge. The location determination module may be utilized to determine the location of the UE accessing the services associated with the bridge. In one embodiment the location may be determined via a reverse lookup of an identifier e.g. cell ID internet protocol address etc. of the UE location sensor information e.g. global positioning system coordinates or a combination thereof. The reverse lookup function may be implemented by including a table of regions of locations as well as corresponding identifier information. For example internet protocol addresses may be mapped to particular regions such as countries. It is contemplated that the location determination module may use any other mechanism for determining the location or approximate location of the UE . Further the location determination module can utilize third party providers that provide location services to determine the location of the UE . Location service providers may have contact with the UE and or the bridge platform to determine the location of the UE .

In one embodiment the service determination module can utilize the location of the UE to determine the availability of a service or content to present at the UE . It is noted that different locations can have different information and or available content e.g. services associated with each respective location. For example a music service in France may have different available music content and or licensing structures than a music service in Spain. Further the music service may not be available in Spain altogether. In this case the service may not be presented in the bridge at all and there would be no indication of the service to the user. Thus the service determination module may determine what services are available to a UE at a particular location. The bridge platform maintains a data structure that may be utilized to correlate available services to locations. Further the data structure may be individualized for different users accounts and or be generally applicable to all users accounts.

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface etc. In certain embodiments the user interface may additionally have a vocal user interface component. As such a text to speech mechanism may be utilized to provide textual information to the user. Further a speech to text mechanism may be utilized to receive vocal input and convert the vocal input into textual input. Moreover the user interface may be utilized to present content and services made available by a content platform and or bridge platform . Further the user interface may be utilized to present menu items on a bridge to a user. The menu items may be selected by the control logic and or bridge platform based on location information.

The location module can determine a user s location. The user s location can be determined by a system such as a GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . In certain embodiments the location information is provided to the bridge platform and or content platform . The location information may be transmitted via the communication interface . Further parts of the location information may be automatically embedded in communications originating from the UE . For example the location information associated with the cell of origin and or cellular networks may be embedded in communications e.g. GPRS over the communication network .

The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over SMS MMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication protocols. The communication interface can be used by the control logic to communicate with other UEs the content platform the bridge platform and other devices. In some examples the communication interface is used to transmit and receive communication messages to obtain services and or content from the bridge platform and or content platform .

In certain embodiments the browser executes on the UE . As such the control logic can be a controller that controls the execution of the browser on the UE . The user may utilize the user interface to browse to a website stored on a content platform . The content platform associated with the website may provide web pages with an embedded bridge from a bridge platform . In certain embodiments the content platform may include the bridge platform . The bridge may be dynamic based on the location of the UE as well as based on the user and or UE privileges and or account information. Account information may include services that the user has paid for and or otherwise has access to e.g. the service is free . The bridge is further detailed in the processes of .

The bridge platform receives a request for bridge content from the UE or content platform to provide to the UE . In step the runtime module receives location information associated with a UE e.g. a device mobile device personal computer etc. . In certain embodiments information is received as part of the request. As such location information may be any information that may be utilized to determine the location of the UE . The runtime module can use the location determination module to transform the location information into transformed location information that associates the UE with a particular location or area. For example the location determination module may take location information such as GPS coordinates cell ID or IP address and determine a country state city region etc. associated with the UE . Further the location information can be received from a third party provider such as a Content Delivery Network CDN provider which may be utilized to provide a location service.

Then the runtime module selects menu items associated with services based at least in part on location information step . As noted above the menu items can be associated with an area or region where a particular service is available e.g. unblocked . The service determination module can determine the services and content available to the user by using the bridge database . The bridge database may include data structures e.g. a list table etc. that can be utilized to map services and service content available to certain regions and or to the user in the regions. Moreover the regions can be associated with location information e.g. mapped to location coordinates . As such a region can be determined based on the location information. Reasons for having access to services in one region but not another region include the service being illegal and or regulated in a particular location copyright and or licensing issues related to the service in particular regions e.g. the service provider is able to obtain a license for providing content in one region but not another business policy e.g. the service may not be translated into the major language of the region. In one example the user may have access to a particular service e.g. music in a particular region e.g. the United States but may have an altered version of the service or no service available in another region e.g. Canada . In this example Canadian regulations may prohibit the use of the Music Service. The service provider may have a subscription based license to stream particular music over the web in the United States however the available music content may be modified different or unavailable in Canada according to rights of the service provider. As such the runtime module determines content associated with the menu items step . The content may additionally be associated with one or more languages associated with the region of the UE . For example the runtime module can determine that the user s location is associated with a particular language. Thus the menu items and services may be provided in a particular language tied to the location. In certain embodiments the location is static e.g. if the location is based on a user s country of registration in other embodiments the location can be dynamic based on movements of the UE e.g. if the location is based on GPS coordinates network identifiers e.g. internet protocol address a Mobile Network Code MNC etc. network locations e.g. cell identifiers wireless network identifiers etc. . Further in certain embodiments the location information may include an override location that allows the user to select the current location of the user and or language. The menu items can be visual indicators of the available services for the user based at least in part on the location of the user s UE .

Further the runtime module can cause at least in part presentation of the selected menu items in a bridge step . The runtime module can cause the presentation by providing content information to the UE for presentation by pre rendering the content information and providing that information for presentation or the like. The bridge may be a user interface element common to multiple services e.g. the services available on one or more content platforms . In certain embodiments the user interface element is a single element e.g. a single navigation bar that is comprised of selected menu items that can be determined based on location. The navigation bar may be a separate component from the rest of the web page. Further as noted above the information from the navigation bar may be sent to the UE from a bridge platform that is different from the content platform . As noted above the presentation of the selected menu items is based at least in part on the location of the UE . As such the presentation of the selected menu items may be presented in a determined language associated with the location.

The runtime module receives input selecting one of the menu items in the bridge step . The received input may be utilized to present additional selected menu items e.g. as an interactive menu . Further the received input can be utilized to cause at least in part initiation of one of the available services corresponding to the menu item step . Such services may be provided by the content platform or another content platform . Because the bridge can link to services from various content platforms the services need not be interconnected or even know of the presence of other services.

In certain embodiments the UE operating system and or application s perform the steps of the process . In these embodiments the received location information is determined at the UE and the menu items associated with the services based on the location information are performed by the control logic of the UE . Additionally or alternatively the determined content associated with the menu items may be determined by the control logic . The control logic may receive bridge information e.g. lists tables etc. associated with the bridge from the bridge platform and store the bridge information in memory . The bridge information may include menu items associated with services as well as translations of the menu items. The control logic may receive updates of the bridge information from the bridge platform or receive updates when installing applications onto the UE . Further the services may be stored in the memory of the UE along with a data structure mapping languages and or available services for locations. In this manner available services may be presented to the user of the UE based on location. Further in some embodiments the menu structure may show all of the installed services on the UE during presentation of the menu items on the bridge but ghost unavailable menu items and services. In this embodiment ghosting is presenting a menu item to show that the menu item is associated with the UE e.g. installed but unavailable e.g. non selectable . Thus control logic can determine that a service is unavailable to the user of the UE based on the location of the UE and block unavailable services. As noted above a service may be unavailable due to different licensing of content in different countries or regions e.g. media in France may have different copyright licenses than media in Spain thus there may not be adequate rights for the user to utilize the service in the current country the user is located at .

A browser executing on control logic of the UE can be utilized to navigate to a web page. The web page can be stored on a content platform e.g. a web server and may include one or more services as well as content provided by those services. At step UE fetches the web page from the content platform by requesting the web page from the content platform . The content platform receives the request and returns a web page including one or more pointers to a bridge step . The bridge can be stored and be accessible on the bridge platform . Further the bridge or information associated with the bridge may be available on a CDN. A CDN is a system of computers that contains copies of information available from the content platform . The computers may be placed at various places in a network to distribute network traffic load and or maximize access bandwidth to retrieve the information. A CDN allows the UE to access a copy of the bridge without contacting the bridge platform .

The CDN may receive the request for the bridge from the UE step . Then the CDN can request the bridge from the bridge platform step . The bridge platform then determines the bridge associated with the UE e.g. based on location information and causes at least in part transmission of bridge information to the CDN that made the request step . Then the CDN initiates transmission of the received bridge information to the UE step . The UE thus has the information to present the bridge information to the user. Further in certain embodiments instead of requesting and receiving the bridge information steps from the bridge platform the CDN can store copies of the bridge information associated with different locations. For example a CDN may store copies of menu items for services available in France. Further the CDN may additionally include translations for the menu items and services based on the location. Further the CDN or other may provide a location service for the bridge platform by determining the location of the UE based on the location of the CDN delivering content to the UE .

As shown in the user interface can be utilized to present an interactive menu . With user interface the bridge reflects that the user is in the United States which uses English as the default language for the bridge. The interactive menu reflects the services available by only presenting services available in the respective areas. For example a submenu of user interface is associated with maps navigation and local search services or content. As shown the submenu items may be represented as graphical icons text menu items or both. It is contemplated that the services may be depicted or represented using any type of user interface element. Further the services selected can be presented in a separate section of the web browser in the language associated with the location.

The user interface of shows a local bridge associated with a local operating system of a UE . As such the local bridge is an operating system element. The bridge can have an associated interactive submenu . As such the bridge is utilized to link or otherwise lead to an application that uses a service. The service may be provided or partially provided via a communication network by a content platform . As with the services provided via a web page the content e.g. map content e mail content photo content game content etc. associated with the service s selected via the interactive menu is presented in another portion of the display separate from the bridge .

With the above approaches a service provider is able to present available services to a user utilizing a bridge. As such the service provider can provide available services based on the location of the user. The detection of the location of the user provides for increased efficiency of the user and the UE of the user. In certain embodiments because only available services are presented to the user the user need not navigate through menu items that are not available to the user. Further the use of a CDN helps alleviate bandwidth pressures on the bridge platform by removing certain overhead. Additionally the bridge platform allows the user to navigate to services residing on more than one content platform e.g. content server .

The processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing communications to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

