---

title: Apparatuses, methods and systems for a lead generating hub
abstract: The APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A LEAD GENERATING HUB (“HUB”) facilitates the generation, evaluation, and recording of information and activities related to property transactions and associated communications. In embodiments, the HUB may be configured to identify leads for users based on user-entered information, user contacts, and/or the properties associated with a user and/or in which a user is interested. Leveraging connectivity between contract relationship management functionality, property listing service features, intelligent inbox coordination capabilities, and/or the like, the HUB may identify connections between user requirements and/or assets and opportunities to fulfill those requirements and/or to transact those assets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152946&OS=09152946&RS=09152946
owner: Brokersavant Inc.
number: 09152946
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
This is a Continuation In Part of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 960 637 entitled Apparatuses Methods and Systems for a Lead Exchange Facilitating HUB filed Dec. 6 2010 U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 883 110 entitled Apparatuses Methods and Systems for an Intelligent Inbox Coordinating HUB filed Sep. 15 2010 U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 872 011 entitled Apparatuses Methods and Systems for an Activity Tracking and Property Transaction Facilitating Hub User Interface filed Aug. 31 2010 and U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 784 845 entitled Apparatuses Methods and Systems for an Activity Tracking and Property Transaction Facilitating Hub filed May 21 2010. The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are herein expressly incorporated by reference.

The present invention is directed generally to an apparatuses methods and systems of commerce and more particularly to APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A LEAD GENERATING HUB

Contact management systems have come about to allow users to store information about individuals and organizations known to them such as contact information job titles impressions personal details and the like. Contacts stored in contact management systems may be organized and sorted based on a variety of criteria such as name affiliation or category. Contact management systems may include e mail or calendar systems to allow for communications with or management of contacts in the contact management systems such as the generation of correspondence with contacts or the scheduling of tasks or events associated with the contacts.

The APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A LEAD GENERATING HUB hereinafter HUB facilitates the generation evaluation and recording of information and activities related to property transactions and the communications surrounding them as well as the relationships dependencies work flows activities related to activity tracking and or the like. HUB systems facilitate a more organized and efficient approach to coordinating activities e.g. sales activities around a centralized database of contacts. By linking pending and or historical activities to a contact company sales opportunity data resource and or the like a user or team of users may more readily discover linkages and interrelationships between parties and linked data along with more readily discovering new business opportunities via side by side and bifurcated comparisons. Linking activities to users may also allow for the prioritization of tasks according to urgency due date client counterparty and or the like. Such organization of activities around users contacts and or the like facilitates higher order and efficiency which is likely to yield greater productivity.

In embodiments the HUB may be configured to identify leads for users based on user entered information user contacts and or the properties associated with a user and or in which a user is interested and or identifying leads through properties associated with a property listing database. Leveraging connectivity between contract relationship management functionality property listing service features intelligent inbox coordination capabilities and or the like the HUB may identify connections between user requirements and or assets and opportunities to fulfill those requirements and or to transact those assets.

In one embodiment a lead generating processor implemented method is disclosed comprising receiving a plurality of property tenant client site drive and or other field market activity parameters discerning an input activity associated with the plurality of such parameters determining a complementary activity that is complementary to the input activity generating a query statement based on the plurality of such parameters and the complementary activity querying lead records based on the query statement to identify at least one matching lead record and providing the at least one matching lead record.

In another embodiment a lead generating processor implemented method is disclosed comprising identifying a transactional counterparty associated with a current activity querying at least one record associated with the transactional counterparty to retrieve at least one lead prospect retrieving at least one lead prospect record associated with the at least one lead prospect comparing data field entries of the at least one lead prospect record with activity data elements associated with the current activity to yield a lead match rating and generating a lead notification when the lead match rating is greater than a threshold.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

This disclosure details aspects of APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A LEAD GENERATING HUB hereinafter HUB . HUB embodiments may serve to facilitate contact relationship management lead generation property retailer and or real estate browsing and or searching transactions broker activity tracking and or the like features and functionality. In one embodiment the HUB may allow a user to specify a role or hat in the context of a prospective transaction of property e.g. a buyer seller tenant landlord buyer tenant or buyer broker seller landlord or landlord or investment sales broker investor leasing agent property manager business developer dispositioner real estate professional Municipality contact and or the like . That role specification may then be used to configure a user interface such as in accordance with a role based user interface profile for presentation to the user. The user may then interact with the user interface to specify desired required or available property tenant attributes based on which queries of property listings tenants may be performed to find matching results. The HUB may also include an integrated contact relationship management CRM system configured to track and manage contact information such as may be associated with properties in the aforementioned property listing with transactions related to those properties and or the like. By integrating prospective property tenant transactional listings with a CRM system the HUB enables a wide array of new features and expanded functionality further discussion of which is provided below.

It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a HUB user counterparty property characteristic client device server device control configuration data payload communication and or network framework monetization model and or the like various embodiments of the HUB may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. The instant disclosure discusses embodiments and or applications of the HUB primarily directed to real estate listings and transactions especially as mediated by real estate brokers. However it is to be understood that the systems described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide range of other applications and or implementations. For example aspects of the HUB may be adapted for other types of commerce transactions of services chattels and or the like non commercial exchanges service requirements fulfillment side by side and bifurcated product and or lead comparison matching and discovery transactions of property and or real estate in a virtual world and or the like. For example in various implementations the HUB may be adapted to any application having different parties wherein one party has requirements to fulfill and the other party has capabilities materials expertise assets and or the like to fulfill those requirements. In other variations the HUB may be used for side by side recruitment skill set product and or pricing comparison and discovery and or the like. It is to be understood that the HUB may be further adapted for other implementations or transactional applications.

The TB may be provided with a list of all of his clients wherefrom each client may be selectable to populate a tenant client name and or tenant site requirements indicating desired property attributes for that tenant client e.g. square footage location layout features amenities view type of location price terms and or the like . A broker s client information may in one implementation be stored in a contacts table of a HUB database. The availability of ready access to a list of clients associated with the user allows for quick and easy access to clients who may have property requirements or desires matching a counterparty with which the broker is engaged at any given time.

In one implementation the interface may include a timer box which may provide a scheduling button to allow a user to generate a new scheduled activity and or a complete button to allow a user to indicate completion of a given activity and or set of activities. In one implementation scheduling a new activity may allow a user to interact with a calendar and or to enter a scheduled date time subject completion status and or the like in association with a scheduled event such as a meeting phone call teleconference and or the like. In one implementation scheduling a new activity may cause the HUB to take a snapshot of a current set of user interface element states values linkages and or the like and associate that snapshot with the scheduled activity such as for later retrieval and or review. In one implementation selection of activity completion may cause conclusion of a given session such as by terminating automatic recording of the session by a HUB activity recorder as discussed in further detail below. In one implementation completion of an activity will automatically trigger re initialization and recording of a new activity subsequent to the termination of the first activity recording session. For example an activity associated with one property may have an assigned timer that will terminate and or pause and or reset when the activity for that property has concluded and or when an activity associated with another property has begun. In one implementation an overall and or global timer may monitor the total time of a user session e.g. such as may be associated with a given user communication with a given contact and or the like while various and or multiple activities with their own timers begin pause and or end. In various HUB implementations pluralities of activity timers may be employed including timers that depend on other timers are independent begin or end upon a user interaction with the UI and or the like. In one implementation a user may select a completion button or otherwise manifest termination of a given activity in order to terminate the timer for that activity only while the global timer continues to run. In another implementation selection of the completion button may cause the conclusion of a global session possibly comprising more than one activity recording session and may terminate an overall timer associated with the overall session. In one implementation a single activity and or a single activity recording session may be associated with each interaction with a given counterparty contra broker and or the like regardless of whether a user changes roles during the session. In one implementation changing roles may cause additional activity timers to stop and start. In one implementation the timer box may also include an overall timer display indicating a global time for the global session. The timer box may also in one implementation indicate other information about the current or other scheduled activity such as the scheduled date and or time subject activity status priority and or the like. In one implementation a user may be permitted to edit the scheduled activity information which may then be appended to a data record corresponding to the scheduled activity and or an activity recording session as described in further detail below. In one implementation this may change the appropriate calendar record and associated scheduled date time subject completion status and or the like.

In one implementation the interface may further include contact information such as may be derived from an integrated CRM system and or may be associated with another party with whom the user is engaged in an activity such as a phone call meeting teleconference instant messaging session and or the like communications. Contact information may correspond to any of a wide variety of different parties with whom the user may be engaged and or about whom the user may wish to investigate such as but not limited to a contra broker client direct contact prospect for new business transactional counterparty and or the like. The contact type may in one implementation be stored in association with the contact and may appear in the interface display upon selection of the contact. In one implementation a user may be permitted to edit the contact type and or to select a corresponding contact type from a selectable list for association with the contact. Displayed contact information may include any information stored in the CRM system in association with the contact such as but not limited to contact name phone number e mail address postal address recent activity personal notes on the contact and or the like. In one implementation the interface may include an element such as a button integrated address book and or the like to allow the user to select a new contact with whom they are engaged. For example in one implementation selection of a button such as that shown at may cause the display of an address book rolodex user profile selection page and or the like from which a user may select a new contact whose information will then be displayed at . In one implementation selection of a new contact may trigger resetting of the overall activity timer a particular activity timer or other subsidiary timer and or the like.

In one implementation the interface may further include a listing mapping and or other presentation of clients existing client locations target client locations and or the like associated with the contact. For example in an implementation wherein the contact is a contra broker comprising a landlord broker e.g. where the user is a tenant broker the client s existing locations may be for example existing rented and or owned properties of the retailer client. Rented and or owned properties may in one implementation be listed at while properties and or property characteristics sought and or desired for rent and or purchase may be listed at and or . In another implementation the same information and or subsets thereof may be included at and except organized differently. For example the information at may comprise information pertaining to clients properties configured as a list while the information at may comprise information to clients properties organized according to a hierarchical and or telescoping arrangement of locations corresponding to a desired property location such as may be specified by a tenant client of the tenant broker user. For example a tenant may specify one or more target locations comprising location information such as a country region state county city intra city village suburbs neighborhood street and or the like. The client locations may then be organized into a hierarchical chart of the target locations at varying degrees of target location specificity so as to indicate which if any of the client locations match the target country target state target city and or the like. In one implementation a user may click on the location hierarchy at any level to be provided with a list of client properties matching that location. In one implementation such a provided list of client properties may be provided in the listing area at in response to selection of a location from the location chart at .

The interface may also include facilities such as map it and or list it buttons which may allow a user to switch between views of the property listings from a list view to a view in which the properties are shown in their positions on a map. In one implementation these buttons may engage Google Maps application programming interface tools to display listing elements on an embedded Google Map. Any of a wide variety of other mapping tools and or systems may be employed in alternate implementations such as but not limited to Yahoo Maps Mapquest Bing Maps and or the like. In one implementation a map may be displayed as an opaque translucent or transparent overlay on top of the HUB UI. A user may for example then be allowed to move the overlay map to switch between an opaque overlay view and a regular map view and or otherwise interact with the map and or a mapping window. In one implementation the HUB may allow for overlaying of multiple maps different views of a single map may allow the user to select different mapping applications showing the same subject property from different views in the same window or view different geographic and or other property and or contact information on a single map and or the like. In one implementation such information may be added or removed from the map by checking or unchecking boxes or the like In one implementation client listings may be sorted and or arranged based on any of a variety of criteria such as but not limited to proximity to a specified location recentness of entry and or availability for a given listing contact rating contact history and or existence of scheduled activity with the contact and or the like. In one implementation mouse over and or selection of a client in the client listing may result in display of any contact information stored for that client in the integrated CRM system. In one implementation selection of a client in the client listing may allow a property associated with that client to be loaded into an existing prospective property match information area and or may cause creation of a new search paper both of which are described further below.

A search paper may in one implementation comprise a graphical representation of a field of view search area sheet of paper and or the like aggregating modules and or data for a target location property activity search session and or the like. For example in one implementation a paper may be displayed for each target location the cities of Schaumburg and Calumet City in the implementation illustrated in . A new paper may be created for example upon user selection of a new paper generation button e.g. the add new prospective property button at upon selection of a new contra broker and or contra broker property and or the like. Different papers may then be activated and or brought to the foreground by clicking on the paper tabs such as those displayed at the left of each paper with the location name at . Paper tab names may be allowed to take values at varying levels of specificity such as in one implementation varying from county to a specific building address. In one implementation multiple papers may be associated with different prospective property matches and thus not available for a user adopting a landlord broker role. In one implementation when a tenant broker clicks on a new tenant client the number of papers may change accordingly to reflect the existence of multiple papers generated based on prior activity. In one implementation there may exist a unique and or independent stack of papers for each tenant client. In various implementations the HUB interface may provide the ability to create a plurality of new papers at and maintain them on screen at any given time.

The interface may further include a bifurcated display showing a side by side representation of site requirements and prospective property information to allow for attribute by attribute comparison of desired and available property attributes. A list of property attributes grid variables and or the like may be provided next to and or as part of the bifurcated display to show identifiers of those attributes next to the attribute values listed at and . In one implementation the list of attributes grid variables and or the like displayed and or for which corresponding fields exist in the property information and or site requirement areas may depend on a variety of factors such as but not limited to the role selected by the user fields customized by the user a current user activity client characteristics and or the like. In one implementation the site requirement information for a tenant client may be static corresponding to the property attributes specified as desired by the tenant while the prospective property match information may admit inputs of property information by a user. In one implementation the interface may include a button or other interface element such as that shown at for initiating entry of new prospective property match information attributes and or the like. In one implementation selection of that interface element may cause the HUB to store any prior prospective property match information entered at and clear the property information area for new entry. In one implementation a user may be prompted prior to storage and clearance of the prior property information as to whether and or how the prior property information should be stored e.g. as a proposed property qualified property presented property declined property and or the like . In one implementation all UI elements or a specified subset of UI elements may be removed selectively added moved customized and or the like by a HUB user such as to maximize usability promote efficiency and or optimize usage of features important to the user.

In alternative implementations or embodiments of HUB operation the bifurcated display at and or any other HUB features may be adapted for transactions of chattels transactions of services non transactional comparisons and or the like. For example in one implementation a user may populated the requirements side of the bifurcated display with skill requirements for a particular task and populate the prospective match side of the display with existing skills of various employees to find an employee best suited for a particular task. In another example a requirements side may be populated with hardware requirements for a piece of software and the prospective match side may be populated with hardware devices having various capabilities wherein the contacts may for example be owners controllers and or the like of those hardware devices . The HUB system may generally be adapted for any other application having interacting parties wherein one party has specified requirements and one or more other parties have capabilities availabilities skills assets services and or the like. In some implementations the HUB may be employed for side by side recruitment skill set product and or pricing comparison and discovery and or the like.

The bifurcated display may also include a plurality of buttons or other such interface elements configured to allow a user to transact marketing materials provide input access for property information associate a status with prospective property information entered at and or to move that information into a separate table such as that shown at and discussed in further detail below and or the like. For example in the illustrated implementation interface buttons are provided including move to qualified move to declined allow LLB to directly enter property data view email upload marketing materials and request marketing materials. A move to qualified button may allow a user to store entered prospective property match information label it as qualified property information populate a qualified properties area of a table such as that shown at with the prospective property information and or the like. A move to declined button may allow a user to store entered prospective property information label it as declined property information populate a declined properties area of a table such as that shown at with the prospective property information and or the like. An allow LLB to directly enter property data button may allow for direct entry of property information into the property information portion of the bifurcated display by a contra broker or other counterparty of the user such as via an instant messaging protocol. In one implementation a contra broker or counterparty may enter property information and the user may employ an auto form fill whereby line items in the form are received by the tenant broker who may then automatically accept the filled information and use it to fill the display at next viewing. A view email upload marketing materials button may allow for quick generation and or transmission of marketing materials associated with property information shown in the bifurcated display. A request marketing materials button may cause generation and or transmission of a request for marketing materials such as may be associated with information shown in the bifurcated display.

In one implementation the interface may include a plurality of rating indicators such as one for each property attribute and or grid variable listed in the bifurcated display. Such rating indicators may in one implementation allow a user to specify and or quantify how well a value of a grid variable of a prospective property matches the required value of the grid variable in the site requirements. For example in one implementation the rating indicators may comprise three radio buttons resembling a traffic light e.g. red yellow and green buttons and whereby a user may specify a good medium or bad match between prospective property match information and tenant site requirements. Any of a wide variety of other forms of rating indicators may be used in various implementations such as but not limited to numerical and or textual input fields sliding bar rating indicators thumbs up down indicators and or the like. In one implementation an overall rating indicator may also be included in the interface. In one implementation the overall rating indicator may be independent of the rating indicators at and may allow a user to specify an overall impression of a given activity transaction lead opportunity and or the like. In another implementation the overall rating indicator may be determined by values entered to the rating indicators at such as reflecting an average weighted average and or the like of the values of those indicators. The interface may further include a deal stage field or other such interface element e.g. radio button pull down menu and or the like allowing a user to specify a stage of the deal making process in which a given activity search prospect lead and or the like is situated. In one implementation attribute and or global rating indicator values and or a deal stage may be stored in association with a given activity such as part of an activity recording session.

In one implementation the interface may further include a current activity timer indicating a time associated with a current activity activity recording session and or the like. The interface may further in one implementation include a facility such as a text entry window to allow a user to enter notes such as general notes impressions and or the like related to the current activity. In one implementation a note header may be automatically included indicating the linked activity and a time at which each note was begun and or edited.

In one implementation the interface may further include a time machine facility comprising components to allow a user to scroll through a history of HUB activities notes search queries results and or the like and or to dynamically filter and or branch that history by specifying filter variables. In one implementation the time machine facility may include interface elements such as the rolling cylinders shown in the illustrated implementation at to allow a user to enter desired values ranges and or the like of variables which may be used to filter returned activity information. For example the rotating cylinders in the illustrated implementation allow a user to specify contact information e.g. contact identity location and or the like retailer and or client information e.g. retailer identity location and or the like site requirement information property information and or the like. In one implementation the variables that a user can adjust values for via the roller cylinders may depend on the role that a user has assumed for a given activity. In one implementation one or more cylinders may be locked on a given filter variable value to set the locked value as the value to be used in a query of historical activities notes and or the like. In one implementation locking of a filter variable value on one cylinder may cause the space of available values for the other filter variables to be limited to those corresponding to existing records having the requisite value for the locked filter variable. For example if a user locks the contact wheel on John Smith then thereafter only the retailers site requirements and property information associated with John Smith may be provided for selection on the remaining cylinders. The interface may further include a timeline element allowing a user to scroll through a range of dates to set a specified desired date and or the specify a range of dates over which a search of prior activities is to be conducted. For example in one implementation setting filter variable values will call a list of activity records having filter variable values matching those set by the user via the cylinders and will populate the timeline with times of those matching records. Then a user may move from record to record by scrolling along the timeline. In one implementation a page flow such as that shown in may be provided for display to a user to show matching historical records allowing for sequential review of activity snapshots and or the like. In one implementation selection of each record will cause the bifurcated display and or other aspects of the interface of to reflect the activities notes property information site requirements and or the like associated with the selected recorded activity. A user may select a button such as the Now button shown at to return the interface to the current activity and or to toggle between current activity and selected historical activity.

The interface may further include a table such as that shown at displaying tabs for property information activities notes and or the like that have been labeled with various statuses. For example in one implementation a user may label properties with statuses such as but not limited to prospective properties qualified properties presented properties declined properties and or the like. In one implementation prospective properties may comprise HUB system determined possible match recommendations such as may be based on various property factors in comparison with site requirements e.g. proximity to target location similarity of square footage requirements property attributes and or the like . In one implementation prospective property tabs may be populated with property information scraped and or otherwise extracted from marketing materials e.g. documents in a variety of electronic formats such as Word documents Portable Document Format documents and or the like emails websites and or the like. In one implementation qualified property information may comprise property information identified by the user as a qualified candidate property awaiting approval from a tenant retailer client and or the like. In one implementation presented property information may comprise property information that has been discussed with the tenant retailer client and or the like. In one implementation declined property information may comprise property information rejected by the user and or rejected by a tenant retailer client and or the like. In one implementation the interface may include a button or other such feature allowing the user to map properties in the table at such as by representing properties with different statuses using different colors symbols and or other differentiators on the map display at their respective locations. In one implementation property mapping may be implemented with multiple layers that can be checked or unchecked such as with each layer corresponding to a given property status. A user may then for example selectively include or exclude layers in the map for various purposes such as to only view qualified properties or to view qualified properties together with proposed properties. In one implementation table values at may be dictated and or otherwise influenced by user entries at .

In one implementation the interface shown in may be shown for user activities related to a current landlord client. The user may select a tab such as that shown near to switch between an interface suitable for existing clients and another interface suitable for prospective clients. In one implementation a HUB interface for new business prospective clients and or the like may take a form similar to the example shown in where the New Biz tab has been selected at . Contact information associated with a prospective client may be displayed as well as a listing of potential new property representations for that client . In one implementation clicking on a potential new property representation from the listing at may cause the display at to populate with any known information about the property. Thereafter a user s entry of property information at the area near may cause the information for that property listing to be updated including in one implementation in the listing displayed at . The interface may further include a complete listing of known properties for the prospective client beyond merely those listings for which the user may seek potential representation i.e. those shown at . In one implementation potential new property representations for a given prospective client may also be accessed by means of papers or tabs such as that shown at wherein each paper or tab may for example correspond to a given potential new property representation for the prospective client. The interface may also in one implementation include a table area configured to display information such as properties associated with the user which neighbor a potential new property representation properties associated with the user s company which neighbor a potential new property representation completed deals having attributes similar to the potential new property representation and or the like which in one implementation can be customized by the user. Display of this information to the user may enable the user to quickly relate relevant information to the prospective client to demonstrate a familiarity with the locations types of properties and or the like associated with the prospective client and or to demonstrate success in prior transactions with such properties so as in one implementation to help the sales pitch of winning the new business. The interface may also in one implementation include pending activity and or completed activity tabs to allow a user to view all recorded pending and or completed activities related to the new business solicitation.

In one implementation aspects of interfaces such as those shown in and may be time dependent and or time sensitive and or may be shown or hidden or minimized or maximized at different phases of system operation and or user interaction. Selective display of user interface elements may in one implementation facilitate user interaction with and or understanding of HUB features and functionality such as based upon user role by providing clean and non cumbersome presentation of HUB UI tools. For example in one implementation the left side of the interface such as that shown in and may be made to appear immediately upon engaging the HUB but may disappear after 10 seconds or other designated time period absent user interaction click mouseover and or the like. Similarly in one implementation UI elements for role and or current activity specification may be provided for display immediately but me made to disappear such as after 11 seconds. The bifurcated display an example of which is shown at in as well as associated UI features such as user notes and or the like may in one implementation not be displayed at the initial engagement of the HUB but may be made to appear some time thereafter such as after 5 seconds. In one implementation the bifurcated display may never disappear after first appearing. In one implementation the time machine UI features may appear at the same time as the bifurcated display and disappear some time thereafter such as after 10 seconds. In one implementation a table such as that shown at in may be made to appear at the same time as the bifurcated display and disappear some time thereafter such as after 10 seconds. In one implementation other UI elements such as the UI buttons shown at in may be displayed or hidden on an as needed and or availability basis e.g. shown when the user s activities have made the use of that button useful or desirable . Other timings and or combinations arrangements orders and or the like of showing and hiding UI elements may be employed in alternative implementations. In one implementation the time periods for display and or hiding of UI elements may be specified by a HUB administrator and or customized by a HUB user. In one implementation recent user activities and or historical user activity patterns may influence and or determine the timing order and or scope of selective display of UI elements. In one implementation a user may be permitted to manually open or hide one or more UI elements and or to turn off the hiding of UI features altogether. In one implementation mousing over an area of the UI may cause one or more hidden UI elements UI areas information areas and or the like to be displayed for a period of time e.g. temporarily until minimized by the user and or the like .

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a dynamic UI configurer module which may in one implementation configure and provide a user interface for property querying. In one implementation the dynamic UI configurer may build a user interface based on a user interface profile such as may be generated or received in response to a role specification by a user may be configured as an interface template XML document and or the like and wherein the interface elements provided for display to the user and or the manner in which queries are constructed from the values thereof may be instructed by the interface profile. In one implementation the HUB system may via the dynamic UI configurer provide a bifurcated interface for display to a user where one half of the bifurcated display is a fixed representation of a query result e.g. available property attributes and the other half of the display is receptive to query inputs e.g. desired property attributes . In one implementation the dynamic UI configurer may configure the bifurcated display with attention to which side is fixed and which admits inputs depending on the role specified by the user e.g. when a user is a buyer tenant or buyer tenant broker fixing the property requirements and configuring the prospective matching properties to receive inputs and when a user is a seller landlord or seller landlord broker fixing the property attributes and configuring the property requirements to receive inputs .

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a query builder module configured to draw values from inputs and or states of user interface elements and generate one or more query statements such as may be used to query a database of property listings and or attributes contact information and or the like.

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a role manager module configured to receive specification of a user role and retrieve one or more role profiles associated therewith. A role profile may in one implementation include and or instruct the retrieval of one or more user interface profiles for provision to the dynamic UI configurer for generation of a user interface appropriate to the selected role. The role manager may also in one implementation determine how queries are built from user interface element states and or values such as by providing a map of query states and or values to query statement positions for use by the query builder module . In one implementation the role manager may further be configured to specify under what circumstances an activity tracker module should initialize an activity timer and or start a new tracking session. Such specification may be made in the form of a matrix table profile and or the like specifying relationships between user roles and interface actions that trigger the beginning of a new activity session.

The HUB controller may further be coupled to an activity tracker module configured to record aspects of user interactions and or activities involving the HUB system via the user interface. In one implementation the activity tracker may initiate a timer for each new activity and record interface states and values and or changes thereof over the course of a given recording session. In one implementation the activity tracker may divide the session time into a plurality of time slices such as may be of equal size and record the values and or states of the complete set of interface elements and or of a selected subset thereof at the conclusion of each time slice. In another implementation the activity tracker may record changes in selected interface element states and or values whenever they occur during a given session. Recorded session information may in one implementation be stored by the activity tracker in an activities table of a HUB system database for later searching retrieval review and or the like.

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a data scraper module configured to extract interpret and or reconfigure data received from any of a variety of sources. For example in one implementation the HUB may be configured to receive e mails containing property data such as data pertaining to attributes of available properties. Property data may be contained in the body of the e mail may be embedded in the email and or in one or more attachments such as PDF files XML files or other structured documents MS Word documents or other word processing documents MS Excel files or other spreadsheet documents and or other formatted files. The data scraper may extract property information from the e mail and or attachments and populate records of a database therewith. Extracted information may then be retrieved in response to subsequent user queries to generate reports and or e blasts for dissemination to users and or the like.

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a property marketing tool module configured to process property information and to generate one or more types of marketing materials based thereon transfer and or exchange marketing of such materials between interested parties and or the like. For example in one implementation the property marketing tool may receive property information directly from a user and or a third party data repository and or extract property information from a properties database retrieve a marketing template such as from a marketing templates database and populate fields of the marketing template with elements of the retrieved property information. The property marketing tool may in one implementation be further configured to generate marketing materials such as webpages PDF documents flyers and or other printed documents cellular phone text and or email messages listing service entries and or the like. In one implementation the property marketing tool may further be configured to generate links to generated marketing materials. For example the property marketing tool may generate a URL or other link to a generated webpage. In another implementation the property marketing tool may generate a barcode QR code matrix code and or the like one dimensional or two dimensional barcode the scanning of which may cause the automatic linking of a scanning device e.g. a cellular phone to a webpage displaying property information the retrieval of a file containing property information and or the like. In one implementation the scanning device may be configured to upload and or download scanned property information. In one implementation the property marketing tool may employ any of a wide variety of barcode generating tools such as Zint Barbecue Kaywa and or the like. In one implementation the property marketing tool may further allow for e blasts and or other distributions of marketing materials including the selective provision of generated marketing materials to a list of participant e mails SMS text addresses and or the like. In one implementation participants may specify what types of materials they are interested in receiving and the property marketing tool may analyze property information generated marketing materials associated metadata and or the like to determine if a given marketing material should be provided to a given user or set of users. In one implementation the property marketing tool may further allow for the automatic population of property information contact information scheduled activities and or the like based on detected interactions of users with generated links barcodes and or the like.

In one implementation HUB components such as the property marketing tool data scraper and or the like may permit users to enter property and or contact information associated with scanned barcodes into corresponding HUB databases. For example in one implementation the HUB may allow a user to sync e.g. one way or two way syncing property and or contact information downloaded to a mobile device e.g. cellular phone obtained by scanning a barcode with that user s stored property and or contact information in a HUB account. Syncing may be achieved for example by entering an instruction on the mobile device to remotely sync the device with the HUB account via one or more communication networks. Alternatively a user may be allowed and or prompted to sync mobile device property and or contact information with his or her HUB account when the user attaches the mobile device to a HUB terminal computing device.

In one implementation scanning barcodes may have different results depending on the character of the barcode and or associated property and or contact depending on the role of the user scanning the barcode and or the like. For example in one implementation a tenant broker scanning a code at a remote location e.g. from a billboard sign placed at the property location flyer magazine website and or the like may initiate the automatic sending of a message e.g. via email text message instant message and or the like to a property and or landlord broker to engage in further discussion request additional property information e.g. price extras square footage available and or the like and or the like. In another example a landlord broker may scan a property code to automatically sync with a CRM account capture geographical coordinates of an associated property e.g. latitude and longitude such as may be based on data stored in association with the scanned code and or which may be automatically pulled from a GPS element of the scanning device leverage coordinates to incorporate the property onto a map within HUB facilities and or otherwise integrated with the HUB contact relation management elements and or the like. In one implementation the scanning of barcodes associated with properties may effectuate accurate labeling of mapped properties in a HUB equipped mapping system. A user may scan a barcode associated with a property and obtain geographic coordinates associated with the property such as from the code itself a lookup based on the code integrated GPS components of the scanning device and or the like. The property information and geographic coordinates may then be used to specifically and accurately label a building lot and or the like location on a graphically displayed map with property name type and or other property information. Various property information may also be used to allow for filtering of the mapped properties in a variety of ways.

In one implementation scanning of a barcode associated with a property may trigger a comparison of property attributes associated with that property with other property attributes associated with the scanning user. For example in one implementation a tenant broker scanning a barcode may have property attributes of the property associated with the barcode automatically compared with the tenant broker s site requirements information to determine whether or not a match exists. In another example a landlord broker scanning a barcode of another landlord broker s property may have property attributes of that property automatically compared with one or more of the scanning landlord broker s existing properties such as to determine competitive threat or advantage relative pricing and or the like. Scanning a barcode associated with one of the landlord broker s own properties may in one implementation provide a comparison of attributes of the property associated with the scanned barcode with other properties managed by the landlord broker. In another implementation scanning of a barcode by a landlord broker may initiate a query on a database of individual and or company clients based on property attributes associated with the scanned barcode to quickly identify potential matches for vacant spaces generate call lists e.g. exportable to Excel or another spreadsheet program and or the like.

The HUB controller may further be coupled to a HUB database DB configured to store a variety of data associated with HUB operation in various embodiments. For example in one implementation the HUB database may include tables for storing information associated with contacts and or contact relationship management properties property attributes real estate listings and or the like user activities activity records user interface configurations and or the like role profiles role based user interface configurations query building instructions and or the like marketing templates and or the like. Further detail surrounding such tables is provided below.

Once a UI has been configured and provided for user display the HUB may monitor and record user activities to generate retrievable and or searchable records thereof. A determination may be made as to whether a user session activity recording session and or the like has been initiated . In one implementation session initiation may be indicated by user selection of a session initiation UI element. In another implementation session initiation may be indicated by HUB detection of the initiation of communication with a contact. If no session is initiated the HUB may wait for a period of time which in one implementation may depend on user circumstances role and or the like before checking again for an initiated session . When a new session is initiated a new session timer may be initialized and user activities may be tracked and recorded . An implementation of user activity tracking and recording is provided in . A determination may be made as to whether a given session has been or is to be terminated . For example in one implementation cessation of a communication with a contact may signal session termination to the HUB. In another implementation selection of a session termination UI element by the user may cause the session to terminate. If session termination is not detected or determined then the HUB may wait and continue to track record user activities . Otherwise a determination may be made as to whether the user has selected a new role and if so the system may receive the new role specification and return to . Otherwise a determination may be made as to whether a new session has been initiated . If so a new session timer may be initialized and the system may return to . Otherwise the flow may conclude . In one implementation the selection of a new role the initiation of a new session and or any of a set of designated user interactions with the interface may qualify to terminate a prior session and or to initiate a new session timer initialization and or the like.

The new query may be submitted such as to a database management system to retrieve any matching results . For example in one implementation the user interface may include interface elements allowing a user to specify attributes of a desired property and the query may be submitted to a database of property information to seek properties having attributes matching the user specifications. A determination may be made as to whether any results are retrievable in response to the query . If there are no matching results a blank results area may be provided and or an error message indicating that no matching results were found . On the other hand if matches are found at they may be provided for display to the user such as in a results listing. In one implementation results may be sorted prior to display wherein such sorting may be based on any of a variety of different criteria such as but not limited to automatic or user selected criteria alphabetical ordering relevance temporal ordering such as based on a time at which a product listing was added to the database updated and or the like a reliability quality or other rating or ranking of a lister seller broker and or the like associated with a given product listing a determined likelihood of interest or opportunity rating associated with the product listing and or the like. In one implementation matching results may be provided for display in a geographic display. For example in an implementation directed to real estate listings retrieved matching results may be displayed on a map based on addresses associated with those listings. A HUB system may for example employ Google Maps application programming interface tools to provide matching real estate listings for display on an embedded Google Map.

A determination may be made at as to whether an activity switch has occurred. An activity switch may for example be detected as a particular interaction or sequence of interactions with a user interface such as the selection of a particular UI element submission of a query selection and or changing of a user role and or the like. In one implementation UI interactions registering as a qualifying activity switch may depend on a user role and may be specified in a table matrix and or the like relating user roles to qualifying UI interactions. If no activity switch is detected a determination may be made as to whether the end of an interval has been reached. For example in one implementation a snapshot of the current states and or values associated with UI elements may be taken periodically after each pre set interval of time has transpired. In an alternative implementation a snapshot may be taken any time a UI element of a designated set of UI elements has a value changed or state change any time a user activity type is switched and or the like. If the end of interval has been reached at or if an activity switch is detected at screen information and or associated metadata may be captured . The HUB may further reset a current activity timer if an activity switch has been detected. In various implementations screen information and or associated data may include but is not limited to states and or values associated with all or selected UI elements screenshots recent and or current queries retrieved results prospective property match information tenant site requirements proposed properties qualified properties presented properties declined properties rating indicators contact information client information notes query results timestamp user identifier and or the like. One or more of these data may be captured queried and or otherwise retrieved from HUB UI data records user inputs third party data sources and or the like sources. If the end of interval has not been reached at the HUB may wait for a period of time and continue to monitor time .

Captured screen information and or associated metadata may then be stored in association with a timestamp . In one implementation UI states are stored as activity records in an activity table wherein each activity record contains and or is linked to records containing fields specifying quantities such as the states and or values associated with UI elements time and or date stamps user identification counterparty identification activity type role current and or recent queries current and or recent retrieved results and or the like. In one implementation an activity record may take a form similar to the following example XML record 

Stored activity records may be retrieved at a later time used to generate reports and or the like. For example in one implementation a user may load a given activity record to cause an interface such as that shown in FIGS. and A B to return to the state at which the activity snapshot corresponding to that record was taken. A user may then be permitted to play and or step through subsequent or prior activity snapshots connected in time to the loaded record. In one implementation activity records may be shared among different HUB users to allow them to see activity snapshots of the user generating the record. For example in one implementation employee activity records may be automatically accessible to a manager user who may sort filter search and or otherwise inspect employee activity records to find information review employee performance and or the like. In another implementation a user may generate one or more reports based on stored activity records. For example a user may generate a report of all activities deal stages properties and or the like in a given time period all contacts with which activities have been undertaken in a given time period all activities for a given deal stage contact client property and or the like and or any other combination sorting filtering and or the like of stored activity data. In one implementation report generation may be automated such as on a scheduled basis such that reports may be periodically generated and sent to a user s manager supervisor to a transactional counterparty to a client to a records retention department and or the like.

If one or more matching transactions are retrieved they may be counted for each associated entity . Entities associated with a given transaction may for example comprise a buyer seller tenant landlord investor broker and or the like. Entities with matching transactions may then be sorted based on the counted number of matching transactions associated with each entity such as in descending order. The sorted list of entities may then be provided for display . This may for example allow a user to view entities that have completed many transactions of properties similar to that in which a user is interested thereby potentially providing leads to transactional counterparties for a future property transaction. A determination may be made as to whether a user wishes to refine and or input different property specifications and if so the HUB may return to . Otherwise the flow may conclude .

Once leads matching the input request parameters have been accessed they may be provided for display to the requester . In one implementation matching leads are displayed as a selectable list showing information of the contact and or user holding the lead but not information about the lead itself. A user may then select a contact and or user from the listing in order to retrieve lead information. In one implementation prior to providing a list of matching leads for display the HUB may sort matching leads based on some criteria . For example in one implementation leads may be sorted based on the quality rating of the contact providing the lead discussed in further detail below . In another implementation a user may specify criteria for sorting selection of a subset and or the like manipulation of the list of leads. Thus for example a user may sort results alphabetically based on contact name may select only those leads corresponding to a desired geographic area and or the like. In still another implementation potential lead providers may pay a fee for prioritized and or advantaged placement in a list of matching leads. In various implementations such a prioritized placement fee may be fixed may depend on the quality ratings of lead providers in the listing may depend on the lead provider s own quality rating and or the like. Lead selection may be received such as by a user selecting an element of the matching leads list with a mouse click and a determination of the lead provision fee may be made such as may be based on a provider quality rating associated with the selected lead provider . In one implementation the lead provision fee may be equal to the bid amount input by the user at . In another implementation the lead provision fee may be based on the bid amount input by the user at and on one or more other factors. For example an amount may be added to and or subtracted from the bid to yield the lead provision fee based on the quality rating of the lead provider e.g. adding a premium for very high quality ratings adding nothing or subtracting something for very low rated lead providers and or the like . In one implementation an amount may only be added to the bid made by the user to determine the lead provision fee whereby the bid is indicative of an amount the user is willing to pay regardless of the quality of the lead or lead provider. In one implementation the lead provision fee may further be based on an amount specified by the lead provider such as a minimum amount required before the lead will be shared.

In one implementation the user may be provided with a request to pay the lead provision fee and a determination may be made as to whether or not the payment of that fee has been agreed to . In an alternative implementation the fee would be displayed to and or otherwise known by the user prior to selection of a lead provider and selection would automatically trigger the debiting of a payment account associated with the user the generation of a bill or other payment mechanism. Payment is received from the user such as by entry of credit card information automatic debiting of a user account receipt of a signed promise to pay and or the like and the HUB proceeds to provide the hidden lead information to the requester and to provide payment and or an indication of payment to the lead provider such as via crediting of a lead provider account sending of a message to the lead provider and or the like. Subsequent to receipt of the lead the lead requester may be provided the opportunity to rate the quality of the lead received such as may be based on the reliability of the lead information the friendliness and or helpfulness of the lead and or lead provider and or the like. In one implementation a user who has received the lead may submit one rating for that lead at any time in the future. In another implementation the user may submit one rating but only for a specific time period following receipt of the lead. In still another implementation the user may submit a rating and subsequently change that rating. The HUB may then update the quality rating of the lead provider based on the lead quality score received from the user and the updated lead provider score may then be provided for display to future lead requesters in determining whether or not to pursue a lead with that provider.

The list may also be sorted based on any of the list information categories. For example illustrates one implementation where a user has selected the contact territory category and is provided with a dialog box by which the user may select a contact territory filter in order to narrow down the returned results. The resulting filtered list is displayed in one implementation in .

In keeping track of user scheduled activities calendars and or the like the HUB and or HUB data records may track both temporal and spatial information associated therewith such as the times and locations of scheduled appointments. The HUB may further contain information about the identities of appointment counterparties and or meeting participants. Based on these collections of information the HUB may allow for optimization of user schedules such as to minimize travel times and or distances provide intelligent suggestions for potential new appointments based on proximity to existing appointments group scheduled activities in time that have close spatial locations and or separate activities in time that have disparities in spatial location and or the like. shows an implementation of logic flow for spatiotemporal schedule optimization in one embodiment of HUB operation. Schedule information may be retrieved for a specified period and or range of time such as from one or more data records associated with a user ID. In one implementation schedule information may comprise a series of times and locations of scheduled activities and or appointments and their correlated priorities e.g. high medium low . A determination may be made as to whether any of the activities activity counterparts and or the like have a distance from each other that is within a set distance range such as less than a threshold distance . If so then a determination may be made as to whether the difference between scheduled times for those activities is in a set time range such as less than a threshold time difference but greater than the duration of the activities themselves . If so then in an implementation where activities have designated priority values a determination may be made as to whether any set activity priority values are greater than a threshold priority value . If not e.g. both activities have sufficiently low associated priority values then the HUB may suggest rescheduling of those qualifying activities to the same day . In one implementation upon confirmation of rescheduling an e mail message text message instant message alert and or the like notice may be provided to parties associated with the activity for notification and or confirmation. In an alternative implementation the HUB may automatically update a schedule and or generate a new schedule with the activities rescheduled to the same day. If either of the activities have a priority higher than a threshold value at then a determination may be made as to whether both activities have a priority value exceeding the threshold . If so e.g. both activities have sufficiently high associated priority values then no rescheduling is made at that time and the HUB moves to . If one of the activities has lower priority than the threshold though the HUB may suggest rescheduling of that lower priority activity to be on the same day as the higher priority activity . The HUB may further determine one or more travel distances such as a total day travel distance for activities in the schedule that are scheduled on the same day . In one implementation travel distances may be determined based on tools in a map engine API toolkit. A determination may be made as to whether any of the determined distances exceed a maximum distance threshold . If so then the HUB may suggest rescheduling of activities on a day having a sufficiently large travel distance and or may suggest alternative days to reschedule activities based on spatial proximity of activities after which spatiotemporal schedule optimization may conclude .

In one embodiment the HUB may be configured to effectuate intelligent inbox coordination which may facilitate the processing of messages configured as email messages XML data HTTP POST message content and or the like for economical display and interaction. The HUB s intelligent inbox coordination features may allow for the distillation of large volumes of message data and or content to highlight and or direct users to the particular message and or attachment containing data that is most interesting or relevant to them. Aspects of HUB intelligent inbox coordination features may include the generation and application of email allocation rules and or sub rules analysis parsing intelligently filing and sub filing and or other processing of email content attachments and or other associated data generation of message and or message data analytics statistics summaries industry trends news content and or the like and or the like.

The generated email message copy may then be copied to a HUB database and or forwarded to a HUB email address from where it may be immediately accessed for further processing and or stored for a period of time for later access analysis cross referencing database updating and or the like. For example in one implementation the HUB and or HUB subsystems may periodically retrieve email messages copied at and extract feature data therefrom such as attached files linked files linked web pages email message content and or the like . Data may then be scraped from email message data features and or parsed into data fields such as in accordance with the flow shown in in one implementation. The HUB may then generate one or more summary messages dashboard interfaces rolodex style email category summaries and or the like as discussed in further detail herebelow and said summary messages may then be provided for user access such as by configuring them as email messages configuring them as webpages embedded in an email message configuring them as linked and or attached files in an email message providing them to a user email client providing them to a mobile device application or other client computer terminal application and or the like. In one implementation generated summary message data may be stored as a summary message record at a message database and accessed by one or more remote client terminals mobile devices and or the like as needed.

An original copy of the message may be provided for retrieval access by a user such as via a mail application such as Microsoft Outlook a Webmail client and or the like . A decision may then be made as to whether messages having attachments are to be filtered e.g. such a decision may be made by querying a user setting querying user terminal device capabilities and or the like . If so then emails having attachments may be blocked from the client device may be directed to a particular folder and or the like . Otherwise the emails may be passed through to the client device . A determination may also be made as to whether the email messages are to be blocked from one or more user mobile devices . For example a user may set a preference to block email messages and or sync one or more mobile devices to company servers e.g. Blackberry Microsoft servers and or the like having attachments from a mobile device in order to avoid transmission rate and or data storage problems associated with the data requirements of those attachments. If the messages are not set for blocking then the email messages may be passed through to and or be accessible by the mobile device . Otherwise the emails may be blocked from the mobile device and or the content on the mobile device and desktop may be synced. In one implementation a mobile device application may pull summary message data such as that generated at for storage and or display on the mobile device in lieu of the blocked emails . In one implementation the summary message data provided to and or displayed at the mobile device may be configured as an email message. In one implementation attachment information from the blocked emails may be extracted and provided directly to the mobile device in lieu of the email and or the full attached file whereon it may be directly viewed such as via a mobile application interface mobile device web browser mobile device email client and or the like.

In one implementation property information extracted from email messages attached and or linked files and or webpages and or the like and or the analytics generated based thereon may be used by the HUB to populate data records associated with one or more real estate listing services. For example in one implementation listing service data may be updated periodically each time a new message is received by a participating HUB user and or the like frequency and the resulting real estate information may be made available to users other than those to which the property information was originally directed. In one implementation acquired property information provided in such a listing service may be searchable. In another implementation authorization settings may be associated with various property information such that only limited groups of users may be authorized to access particular sets of property information.

In one implementation a user specified message response trigger may cause a corresponding message to be copied forwarded transferred and or the like to one or more contacts such as those in a user s list of contact where those contacts may be selected based on categories and or subcategories correlated with message data elements. In another implementation a greater target set may be specified allowing the message to be provided to a broader list of recipients beyond a user s contact list e.g. all HUB users all users associated with a given office all users for a given region all users in a given department and or the like . In one example if a user who is a tenant broker receives a message including a flyer for an available property that is correlated with the city of Schaumberg the property type of storefront and the price of 6000 mo. and the user specifies a gut feel indicator value of green for that message the message may automatically be sent to all tenant clients associated with the tenant broker user having contact records indicating interest in properties matching those categories and or subcategories. In another example if a user who is a landlord broker receives a message indicating desired property attributes that is correlated with the city of Schaumberg the property type of storefront and the price of 6000 mo. and the user specifies a gut feel indicator value of green for that message the message may automatically be sent to all landlord clients associated with the landlord broker user having contact records indicating available properties matching those categories and or subcategories. Thus the HUB may be configured to utilize its store of message data property flyer information and or the like to notify alert and send messages message data property flyers and or the like to all parties to create an efficient marketplace and or bidding system for the exchange and or transaction of those properties.

In another implementation a message response trigger specified by a message recipient may cause a corresponding message to be re sent copied forwarded transferred and or the like to other recipients by an original sender where the additional recipients may be selected based on categories and or sub categories correlated with message data elements. For example if one or more message recipients who are tenant brokers enter positive message response trigger values such as green gut feel indicator values for a given message and or that message s associated property data that message may be sent on behalf of the message originating landlord broker and or landlord client to other recipients such as further tenant brokers tenant clients and or the like matching message correlated categories and or sub categories. In another example if one or more message recipients who are landlord brokers enter positive message response trigger values such as green gut feel indicator values for a given message and or that message s associated property data that message may be sent on behalf of the message originating tenant broker and or tenant client to other recipients such as further landlord brokers landlord clients and or the like matching message correlated categories and or sub categories. In one implementation further message recipients may be limited to a message originator s contact list while in another implementation further message recipients may be drawn broadly from all HUB users and or subsets of HUB users sharing particular characteristics e.g. company region department and or the like . Provision of property messages with positive message response trigger value inputs to further recipients may in one implementation facilitate an efficient market for property and or allow message originators to obtain the best deals in association with property transactions.

Selection of a category and or subcategory of messages from a summary message such as the rolodex display at in may in one implementation yield an interface similar to the example shown in . Here again a summary message area may be shown which may in one implementation be configured as a rolodex display . The interface may further include a selectable listing of messages where each message is associated with the subcategory selection discussed above. In the displayed implementation the selected category and subcategory reflect a particular company name . The listing may display other aspects and or facets of message data data contained in message attachments embedded and or linked files and or the like. For example in an implementation where message data is associated with real estate properties the further information may include but it not limited to property city property county property state property area e.g. square footage property type and or the like. In various implementations displayed message data such as that shown at and and or other message display features may be modifiable and or customizable by a user to suit particular display needs preferences and or the like. The listing may further include a selectable element by which a user may open an attached file such as a PDF for viewing. In one implementation the interface may further include a message response trigger facility such as a gut feel indicator by which a user may register a reaction impression assessment evaluation and or the like in association with each message and or a group of messages. For example in the illustrated implementation a gut feel indicator may be set by the user with values of either green yellow or red. In one implementation a selected message response trigger gut feel indicator value and or the like may be stored in association with a corresponding message message attachment message link message data and or the like. In one implementation selection of a particular message response trigger gut feel indicator and or the like may trigger the generation of an automatic text response such as that shown at which may then be sent to the message originator such as by pressing a send button . In one implementation a user may supplement modify and or replace auto generated text prior to sending. In one implementation a plurality of messages such as may be selected as a group may be sent together with a single user action e.g. desired messages are selected auto text is generated for them and the user may then select a send all button .

In embodiments the HUB may be configured to facilitate transaction and or exchange of lead information such as contact information real estate site drives market comparables marketing ideas calendar time and or the like. The HUB may engender a tailored and efficient forum for coordinating transactions of lead information based on a centralized database of contacts and other lead and or market information associated with and or belonging to users. In one embodiment users may submit lead requests comprising parameters and or criteria based on which one or more queries may be performed on that database. Other users having leads matching the request may then be notified and may decide whether to share their lead information with the requesting user. In one implementation users may include a bounty or other user specified offer price with their lead request which bounty may be provided to a lead owner and or provider upon transfer of the requested lead information. In one implementation a lead provider may also set a bounty minimum payment amount and or the like to act as a required price target price threshold price and or the like for the sharing of lead information. In some implementations lead requestors may submit lead quality rating scores and or the like subsequent to receiving lead information which may assist future requestors in selecting the lead providers with whom they wish to engage in transactions. For example. lead requestors may be able to view such lead quality scores and or ratings for candidate lead providers and or leads to determine which are the most desirable to pursue and or to pay a bounty for.

In one implementation the HUB may facilitate transactions based on contact information such as from one broker to another from a broker to a retailer or other interested party and or the like. In another implementation the HUB may facilitate direct contact between HUB users such as facilitating transactions based on calendar time such as from one retailer to another from one retailer to a broker and or the like. For example in such an implementation a retailer may receive a message requesting access to the retailer s time e.g. for a call to schedule a meeting videoconference and or the like in exchange for a bounty price. In the context of commercial real estate implementations commercial real estate professionals seeking to maximize the return on their time and efforts which after all are often directed towards earning commissions may employ the HUB to engage retailers to receive quick feedback on properties being marketed. The HUB may facilitate an incentive structure for retailers to share their time with brokers such as to provide this kind of feedback on marketed properties in exchange for the payment of an agreed upon bounty. Similarly the broker who also has limited time and is interested in receiving the greatest return on time invested receives some assurance that the exchange will be of some value. Therefore the retailer or professional representing the retailer may be able to stipulate the value of his time and the professional representing the property may decide whether or not it is worth it to him to pay for a scheduled amount of that time.

In one implementation the request may further include any of a variety of lead identifying criteria based on which the HUB may perform one or more queries to retrieve information pertinent to the lead request. For example a user may specify a property identifier location contact name contact role and or title and or the like. The HUB may then perform a query on HUB users and or associated user lead information based on the lead criteria provided in the request . In one implementation the query may further be based on a bounty or other payment amount specified in the lead request whereby only lead providers having minimum compensation requirements less than the lead requestor s specified bounty are returned in response to the query. In one implementation such a minimum compensation amount may be set by the lead provider and or may be based in whole or in part on a quality rating associated with the lead provider. In one implementation only lead providers who have opted in to a lead sharing service may be included in the query at . In another implementation all users may be included in the query at and a subsequent extraction of users who have opted in may then be performed. A determination may be made as to whether in response to the query one or more HUB lead providers can be found having associated leads matching the query. If not then an error handling procedure may be undertaken such as providing an error message to the lead requestor requesting reentry of lead criteria parameters and or the like. If one or more matches are found the HUB may provide each matching user with a message requesting acceptance of the user contact request and or authorization to release further information about the available lead to the requestor . A determination may then be made as to whether at least one acceptance has been received in response to the notice message at and if not then an error handling procedure may be undertaken such as notifying the requestor of the lack of acceptances notifying the requestor of the number of rejections requesting reentry of lead criteria and or the like. If at least one acceptance is received at the HUB may provide a selectable list of matching lead provider and or lead information e.g. broker names titles prices and or premiums redacted lead information and or the like for selectable display to the requesting user . In one implementation the HUB may sort matches prior to displaying them to the requestor . Sorting may be based on any one or combination of a variety of different sort criteria in various implementations. For example the HUB may order match results based on alphabetical order a lead provider quality rating order in which acceptances were submitted and or received match quality relative to lead criteria a difference between a proposed and an expected or required payment amount for provision of the requested lead participation and or status in a priority placement program e.g. a user may pay a premium in order to receive priority placement in such lists and or the like.

The HUB may receive a selection of one or more entries in the selectable list from the requesting user . Lead information e.g. such as contact information associated with those entries may then be provided to the requesting user and a payment may be effectuated to the one or more users e.g. brokers who own control provide and or are otherwise associated with the provided lead information . In some implementations access may be provided to the requested lead information via an email message an instant message web page access e.g. permanent access access for a set period of time and or the like and or the like. In one implementation where the bounty and or proposed payment included in the lead request is contingent on the outcome of a future transaction the HUB may further monitor the outcome of that transaction and only effectuate payment upon receipt of an indication of successful consummation thereof. For example where the bounty is specified as a percentage of an expected transaction amount the HUB may withhold payment until receipt of an authorized indication e.g. entry by a HUB administrator of a transaction amount for the associated transaction at which time the appropriate payment amount may be determined and effectuated. In one implementation a service fee may be deducted from and or added to the payment amount and a net payment effectuated between the lead requestor and lead provider. In another implementation a fee payment may be made based on the type of associated transaction e.g. full payment being due at the time of a closing on a property sale partial payment being due upon execution of a lease with remainder of payment being due upon tenant doors opening for business and or the like .

The HUB may then receive a lead quality score from the requesting user such as may reflect a perceived quality associated with the received lead information. Any of a variety of lead ratings may be employed in different implementations of the HUB such as but not limited to numerical scores radio button ratings like buttons thumbs up and or thumbs down ratings and or the like. A lead quality score associated with the owner originator controller and or the like of the lead may then be updated based on the received lead quality score .

If there is no permission based access authorized at a determination may be made as to whether the one or more users associated with the selected lead information have opted in for providing instant access to lead information in response to lead requests or if instead they have opted to receive a further opportunity to approve provision of the requested lead information . If the users have opted in to provide instant access then the HUB may determine whether the requesting user and or the lead request itself meet minimum requirements for lead information provision . For example in one implementation such a determination may be made based on a comparison of a bounty proposal from the lead requestor to a minimum required amount specified by the lead owner and or controller for sharing the requested lead information whereby the minimum requirement is met if the bounty exceeds the minimum required amount. In another example a minimum requirement may be based on a comparison of a requesting user identifier and or other requesting user characteristics to a list of preferred and or prohibited identifiers and or characteristics. If the minimum requirements have not been met an error handling procedure may be undertaken such as providing an error message to the requesting user prompting the user for re selection of desired leads and or the like. If the minimum requirements have been met at then the requested lead information may be provided to the requesting user and payment effectuated for the owner and or controller of the lead information .

If the lead originators have not opted in at the HUB may provide them with a lead sharing request notice and or message and a determination may be made as to whether they have accepted the request . If not then an error handling procedure may be undertaken such as providing an error message to the requesting user prompting the user for re selection of desired leads and or the like. Otherwise if the lead request is accepted at then the requested lead information may be provided to the requesting user and payment effectuated for the owner and or controller of the lead information . The HUB may then receive a lead quality score from the requesting user such as may reflect a perceived quality associated with the received lead information. Any of a variety of lead ratings may be employed in different implementations of the HUB such as but not limited to numerical scores radio button ratings like buttons thumbs up and or thumbs down ratings and or the like. A lead quality score associated with the owner originator controller and or the like of the lead may then be updated based on the received lead quality score .

In one implementation the HUB may track and or maintain records of lead requests lead provisions lead transactions bounty payments and or the like. Tracked records may include for example a record of a lead requestor identifier lead provider identifier date time lead request type lead request parameters lead quality score bounty amount and or the like. The HUB may analyze lead request and or transaction records to discern one or more trends associated therewith. For example the HUB may determine which brokers retailers tenants landlords and or the like HUB users have been accessed the most and or been the target of the most lead requests by HUB lead sharing services. In another example the HUB may determine which locations property types property characteristics price ranges and or the like are the most popular among lead requestors lead requests provided leads and or the like. The HUB may perform any of a wide variety of statistical analyses on accumulated information such as but not limited to calculating averages means medians variances standard deviations location and or time resolved trends correlations and or the like. In one implementation accumulated and or generated trend information may be made available to HUB administrators users and or the like. The HUB may publish lead request and or lead provision analytics provide fee based access and or the like.

In one implementation an interface similar to the example shown in may allow a lead requestor to view information about lead originating owning controlling and or the like users within the results page. For example in one implementation interaction with a user identifier e.g. clicking mousing over and or the like may engender a pop up window that includes information for the contact user such as a photo contact information and or the like.

In one implementation an interface similar to the example shown in may further provide a subset of lead information for display to a lead requestor prior to lead selection lead provision bounty payment and or the like. For example in the illustrated implementation for a contact information request the lead requestor may be provided with a contact title contact location and or the like to assist the requestor in selecting a lead provider with whom to exchange lead information and or payment. In various implementations any of a variety of selected and or redacted lead information may be provided for display such as redacted contact information title location company name contact type calendar availability site drive information redacted and or abbreviated marketing ideas and or the like. also illustrates an implementation whereby matching lead providers having minimum payment thresholds in excess of the bounty amount associated with a lead request may still be provided for display to the lead requestor. For example in the illustrated implementation a result entry is displayed where the lead provider identity is redacted and a message is provided indicating that the lead requestor provided bounty is too low to allow for engagement in a lead sharing transaction with the corresponding lead provider. Display of this information or other limited information related to the lead provider may inspire a lead requestor to modify request parameters in order to be able to access lead information provided by that lead provider.

In embodiments the HUB may be configured to identify leads for users based on user entered information user contacts and or the properties associated with a user and or in which a user is interested. Leveraging connectivity between contact relationship management functionality property listing service features intelligent inbox coordination capabilities and or the like the HUB may identify connections between user requirements and or assets and opportunities to fulfill those requirements and or to transact those assets or to alert the lead seeker of information correlating to their expressly stated needs or to notify them of potential needs derived from their historical or current activity in the contact relationship management service property listing service intelligent inbox coordination service and or the like.

For further illustration in one example a tenant broker may enter desired site requirements of a tenant client in a HUB bifurcated display such as during a telephone conversation with a counterbroker representing one or more landlord clients. All or a subset of the entered site requirement information may be used to construct a query statement with which existing HUB property records are queried. Such existing records may include records of property information generated directly as a result of user property information inputs property information scraped and or analyzed from websites property information scraped and or analyzed from emails e.g. emails received by the tenant broker emails received by the tenant brokers contacts and or the like property information scraped and or analyzed from documents e.g. Word HTML PDF files and or the like property information of other users property information received in response to captured codes and or the like. Any retrieved property information may be analyzed rated ranked and or the like to determine if the match is of sufficient closeness quality and or the like as discussed further below to warrant identification as a potential lead for the user. If identified as a lead the HUB may provide notice of the property information to the tenant broker and or may access further information linked with the property information such as associated contact information site drive information marketing idea information and or the like which may then be provided to the tenant broker.

In one implementation the HUB may further identify a current role activity and or the like associated with the input information discern a complementary role activity and or the like and construct a query based on the current activity role and or the complementary activity role. For example a current role may comprise a tenant broker role and a complementary role may comprise a landlord broker role whereby property information entered under a tenant broker role may be used to query property information connected with and or entered under a landlord broker role. In another implementation the HUB may seek leads based on patterns of property information. For example if the HUB detects that a user has entered a particular collection of property characteristics more than a threshold number of times it may perform a query based on that collection of information and or a subset thereof to identify leads of possible continuing interest to the user. Input patterns may be detected from any combination of inputs such as those shown in . For example a pattern of inputs may be discerned by cross correlating inputs into a bifurcated display code capture data retrievals and user emails analyzed by a HUB intelligent inbox coordinator.

In one implementation a determination may be made as to whether sufficient property inputs and or activity identifying inputs have been provided to warrant identification and or generation of leads . For example in one implementation the HUB may seek inputs corresponding to at least a user role property location and property square footage at before proceeding with further lead identification. In one implementation different property inputs may have different weights in consideration of whether sufficient inputs have been received. For example in one implementation while a location and a square footage may be sufficient a property type and a property price may be insufficient unless they also include a property visibility input. In one implementation an initial query of possible lead matches may be performed at to discern a volume of matching results and if that volume exceeds a threshold the results may be discarded and the HUB may note that there are insufficient inputs. In an alternative implementation the HUB may provide a sample of the results to the user with a notice that a high volume of results has been retrieved and providing an option to the user as to whether he or she would like to proceed or wait until further property inputs are received.

The HUB may then discern one or more roles activities and or the like that are complementary to and or otherwise related to the input roles activities and or the like . In one implementation the HUB may engage one or more rules to correlate input activities with complementary activities. For example a rule may specify that if the user has specified a tenant broker role then the complementary role is landlord broker. In another example a rule may specify that where an input activity is a code capture of a property for sale the complementary activity is property sales such that lead information that is provided in response to the input may be property information for other available properties for sale. The HUB may prepare a query statement based on the received inputs . In one implementation the query statement and or the selection of database tables and or records to which the query statement are applied may be further be based on the discerned input activity and or the discerned complementary activity. In one implementation the HUB may automatically determine ranges of values centered around received property inputs and or may determine additional values related to received inputs and may use those ranges and or additional values in preparation of the query statement. For example if received inputs include property price property square footage and a property type the HUB may build ranges of price and square footage that encompass 10 above and 10 below the received values may supplement the property type with related types and may construct the query using the ranges and related types. In one implementation a subset of received property information may be used in preparing the query statement such as may be based on a prioritization schedule of different property characteristics. For example in one implementation property characteristics in descending order of prioritization may be type price square footage location and or the like. The query statement may then be constructed by first selecting all input property information and or exact values of those inputs. In one implementation subsequent query statements may be prepared excluding property inputs with lower prioritization values and or including broader ranges around received values until a desired number of matching results are retrieved in response to the query. In one implementation property characteristic prioritization may be different for different discerned input activities and or discerned complementary activities.

A determination may be made as to whether the database tables and or records searched using the query prepared at should be confined to a limited group of contacts e.g. the contacts of the user from whom the property inputs were received . If so then those contacts and or associated records for properties site drives marketing information and or the like may be queried . Otherwise a broader group of contacts and or associated records for properties site drives marketing ideas and or the like may be queried such as all records in the HUB database.

A determination may be made as to whether any matches exist in response to the query and of not the HUB may undertake an error handling procedure such as returning to to prepare another query statement using a more restricted selection of property inputs e.g. excluding more low priority inputs than in the first query statement . In one implementation no action may be taken by the HUB if there are no matches retrieved at . If one or more matches are found at the HUB may evaluate a match quality for each matching result. For example in one implementation a match quality may be based on the number of original property inputs and or the size of ranges around those inputs used in the preparation of the query statement at . In one implementation the match quality may consider the prioritization schedule of property characteristics and weight the quality value more heavily for matches or lack thereof between higher priority property characteristics. The determined match quality may be compared with a threshold value and a determination made as to whether the match quality exceeds that threshold . If not an error handling procedure may be undertaken . If the match quality exceeds the threshold the HUB may identify the one or more matching results as leads such as by generating a match record with one or more links to the one or more matching contact property site drive marketing idea and or the like records. The match record may further include a variety of other information such as but not limited to property inputs contact information and or links to contact information for the user from whom the property inputs are received match quality and or the like. In one implementation the HUB may further provide notice of the lead such as to the user from whom the property inputs were received to a user associated with matches identified at and or the like.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the HUB controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The HUB controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the HUB controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed HUB mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the HUB may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the HUB some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the HUB component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the HUB may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example HUB features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the HUB features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the HUB system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the HUB may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate HUB controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the HUB.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the HUB thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the HUB controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed HUB architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the HUB controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the HUB controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the HUB controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the HUB controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the HUB component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the HUB controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the HUB controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the HUB controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the HUB controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port 21 and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the HUB database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the HUB database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the HUB. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the HUB as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the HUB enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the HUB.

Access to the HUB mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the HUB may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the HUB component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the HUB and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The HUB database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the HUB database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the HUB database is implemented as a data structure the use of the HUB database may be integrated into another component such as the HUB component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Contacts table may include fields such as but not limited to contact ID contact name postal address es email address es phone number s instant messenger ID s property ID s user status activity ID s related contact ID s job title s role ID s client ID s client role s client type s priority status and or the like. The Contacts table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a HUB. In one implementation user profiles and or user information may be stored in the contacts table. In another implementation user profiles and or other user information may be stored in association with an independent users table. In one implementation client roles and or types may indicate a relationship between the user and or contact and the client e.g. tenant client landlord client and or the like and may act as query linkages that pivot off the user s selected role. A Properties table may include fields such as but not limited to property ID property name property type property dimensions address price parameter s transaction history contact ID s property status property type activity ID s transaction information rating indicator s and or the like. An Activities table may include fields such as but not limited to activity ID activity name contact ID s property ID s contact attribute s property attribute s rating indicator s transaction information role ID s client ID s time date user ID s activity type and or the like. A Role Profiles table may include fields such as but not limited to role ID role UI matrix element s role query matrix element s role name role type and or the like. A market data table includes fields such as but not limited to market data feed ID property ID spot price bid price ask price interest rate and or the like in one embodiment the market data table is populated through a market data feed e.g. Bloomberg s PhatPipe Dun Bradstreet Reuter s Tib Triarch etc. for example through Microsoft s Active Template Library and Dealing Object Technology s real time toolkit Rtt.Multi. A Marketing Templates table may include fields such as but not limited to template ID template name contact ID s property ID s authorization criteria and or the like. A Messages table may include fields such as but not limited to message ID sender ID contact ID s property ID s sender address es message source message format recipient address es subject message data attachment s link s embedded data and or the like. A Message Rules table may include fields such as but not limited to rule ID rule name rule input s categories sub categories folder ID s folder name s and or the like. A Message Summaries table may include fields such as but not limited to message summary ID message summary name contact ID s message ID s statistics analytics time message source and or the like. A Leads table may include fields such as but not limited to Lead ID match score property inputs input user site drive marketing idea contact ID s message ID s property ID s activity ID s statistics analytics time message source and or the like.

In one embodiment the HUB database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search HUB component may treat the combination of the HUB database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the HUB. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the HUB may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The HUB may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The HUB database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the HUB database communicates with the HUB component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The HUB component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the HUB component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the HUB that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the HUB affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The HUB component enables the generation evaluation and recording of information and activities related to property transactions and the communications surrounding them as well as the relationships dependencies work flows activites related to activity tracking property transaction facilitation intelligent inbox coordination message analysis summary message generation rule generation lead exchange facilitation lead identification and or generation and or the like and use of the HUB.

The HUB component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the HUB server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The HUB component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the HUB component communicates with the HUB database operating systems other program components and or the like. The HUB may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the HUB node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the HUB controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA local and remote application program interfaces Jini Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. For example a grammar may be arranged to recognize the tokens of an HTTP post command e.g. 

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. the SOAP parser that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment. The following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and improve over previous works the application is directed to APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A LEAD GENERATING HUB. The entirety of this application including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a HUB individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the HUB may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the HUB may be adapted for other types of commerce transactions of services chattels and or the like non commercial exchanges transactions of property and or real estate in a virtual world and or the like. While various embodiments and discussions of the HUB have been directed to real estate listings and transactions especially as mediated by real estate brokers however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

