---

title: Bi-Se doped with Cu, p-type semiconductor
abstract: A Bi—Se doped with Cu, p-type semiconductor, preferably used as an absorber material in a photovoltaic device. Preferably the semiconductor has at least 20 molar percent Cu. In a preferred embodiment, the semiconductor comprises at least 28 molar percent of Cu. In one embodiment, the semiconductor comprises a molar percentage of Cu and Bi whereby the molar percentage of Cu divided by the molar percentage of Bi is greater than 1.2. In a preferred embodiment, the semiconductor is manufactured as a thin film having a thickness less than 600 nm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08513050&OS=08513050&RS=08513050
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08513050
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100615
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC36 98G010337 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Midwest Research Institute.

The present invention relates to a low cost p type semiconductor. More particularly the present invention relates to a Bi Se doped with Cu p type semiconductor preferably for use in photovoltaic devices.

Although photovoltaic devices are poised to provide clean renewable energy for the future production costs have limited the potential of this technology. Photovoltaics convert light into usable electricity using the photovoltaic effect. Briefly two basic steps are involved in the photovoltaic effect. Initially light is absorbed by an absorber material a semiconductor. The absorption of the light generates electrons and holes. Secondly the electrons and holes are separated by a built in electric field for example a p n junction. The electrons generated at the p n junction flow towards the n type material which can be captured as produced electricity.

The primary semiconductor absorber materials generally found in existing photovolatics currently employ materials such as amorphous silicon a Si copper indium gallium diselenide CIGS and cadmium telluride CdTe . These materials have well known drawbacks including the employment of toxic nonabundant and expensive raw materials that limit their successful commercial deployment. Therefore there exists a need in the art for a suitable absorber material that is made of abundant and low cost materials that are nontoxic.

A Bi Se doped with Cu p type semiconductor preferably used as an absorber material in a photovoltaic device. Preferably the p type semiconductor has at least 20 molar percent of Cu. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises at least 28 molar percent of Cu. In one embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises a molar percentage of Cu and Bi whereby the molar percentage of Cu divided by the molar percentage of Bi is greater than 1.2. In one embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises Se having a molar ratio greater than 61 percent and Bi having a molar ratio greater than 17 percent. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor is manufactured in as a thin layer thin film having a thickness less than 600 nm.

The p type semiconductor may be fabricated using various fabrication techniques including but are not limited to physical vapor deposition sputtering solution based methods such as sol gel inkjet metal organic deposition etc. Preferably the p type semiconductor is fabricated as a layer by electrodeposition to minimize impurities in the p type semiconductor.

Preferably the p type semiconductor is used as a material to create various semiconductor electronics for example transistors e.g. BJT MOSFET etc. solar cells diodes light emitting diode silicon controlled rectifier digital and analog integrated circuits thermoelectric devices and quantum computing devices. More preferably the p type semiconductor is used as a material to create photovoltaic devices.

A Bi Se doped with Cu p type semiconductor preferably used as an absorber material in a photovoltaic device. Preferably the p type semiconductor has at least 20 molar percent of Cu. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises at least 28 molar percent of Cu. In one embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises a molar percentage of Cu and Bi whereby the molar percentage of Cu divided by the molar percentage of Bi is greater than 1.2. In one embodiment the p type semiconductor comprises Se having a molar ratio greater than 61 percent and Bi having a molar ratio greater than 17 percent. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor is manufactured as a thin layer thin film having a thickness less than 600 nm.

The p type semiconductor may be fabricated using various fabrication techniques including but are not limited to physical vapor deposition sputtering solution based methods such as sol gel inkjet metal organic deposition etc. Preferably the p type semiconductor is fabricated as a layer by electrodeposition to minimize impurities in the semiconductor.

Preferably the p type semiconductor is used as a material to create various semiconductor electronics for example transistors e.g. BJT MOSFET etc. solar cells diodes light emitting diode silicon controlled rectifier digital and analog integrated circuits thermoelectric devices and quantum computing devices. More preferably the p type semiconductor is used as a material to create photovoltaic devices. Preferably the p type semiconductor is used with a combination of one or more other semiconductors. For example in one embodiment the p type semiconductor is deposited onto a substrate with one or more other layers e.g. p type semiconductors n type semiconductors electrodes insulators resistors etc. . In yet another embodiment the p type semiconductor is deposited onto a substrate with one or more other layers including various techniques for creating patterned layers e.g. partial layer remove using patterns . In one embodiment a substrate has a layer made of the p type semiconductor and a second layer made of a high band n type semiconductor layer e.g. CdS ZnS Zn O OH S CdZnS Cd O OH S In S In OH S and other window layers creating a photovoltaic cell a diode forming one or more parts of a transistor or other electrical devices.

The substrate is any surface capable of maintaining the structural integrity of the deposited layers while also preferably bonding to the layers. Preferably the substrate is made of glass transparent conducting layers indium tin oxide ITO gallium doped indium tin oxide fluorine doped tin oxide zinc oxide doped zinc oxide carbon nanotube networks graphene networks of polymers e.g. poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene polyacetylene polyaniline polypyrrole and its derivatives or combinations thereof metallic stainless steel aluminum nickel nickel tungsten alloys copper silver gold platinum molybdenum biaxially textured metallic with a preferential grain orientation e.g. stainless steel aluminum nickel nickel tungsten alloys copper silver gold platinum molybdenum or a combination thereof polyester poly ethylen terephtalate PET poly ethylen naphtalate PEN Polyether sulfones PES polyimide or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor one of the layers or a combination thereof is deposited on molybdenum Mo coated glass substrate. In a more preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor one or the layers or a combination thereof is deposited on molybdenum Mo coated polymide substrate. In an alternate embodiment the p type semiconductor one of the layer or a combination thereof provide enough structural integrity to forgo the use of a separate substrate.

The produced p type semiconductor has electrons missing from one of the covalent bonds normal for the material s lattice. Preferably the p type property of the semiconductor is determined directly by the electronic properties of the material. In the alternative the p type property of the semiconductor is determined by a positive hall effect coefficient a positive Seebeck coefficient or a combination thereof.

In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared using electrodeposition. In this embodiment layers are deposited by dipping a substrate into an electrolytic bath and applying an electrical current across the substrate. In this embodiment the substrate is preferably a Mo coated glass substrate or ITO coated glass substrate.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor electrolytic bath contains 0.8 g to 6 g of bismuth nitrate hydrate up to 0.3 g of copper nitrate hydrate 3 to 5 g of lithium chloride and 0.1 to 0.5 g of seleneous acid dissolved in 200 mL of 3 nitric acid solution. The p type semiconductor is preferably formed into a layer deposited on the substrate preferably in air and at room temperature. In one embodiment the substrate is a 7.5 2.5 cmMo coated glass substrate or ITO coated glass substrate in air and at room temperature. The electrodeposition is preferably performed at constant current ranging from 7 mA to 70 mA either with or without constant stirring in a two electrode cell configuration containing a working electrode and a counter electrode. The deposition is preferably carried out for less than 40 minutes on the substrate depending on the desired thickness. In a preferred embodiment the deposition was performed for less than 5 minutes on the substrates depending on the desired thickness.

Preferably the p type semiconductor is annealed after deposition in order to promote good crystallinity and good phase formation. Preferably the p type semiconductor along with any substrate or other layers are all annealed together. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor is annealed at temperatures above 250 C. for 10 minutes to 5 hours. Preferably the p type semiconductor is exposed to a flowing noble gas more preferably argon in presence of Se vapor. The annealing conditions are optimized by various factors for example atmosphere gas pressure selenium vapor pressure and temperature. Preferably the selenium vapor pressure during annealing is controlled by a selenium source in the form of either excess selenium in the layers 10 to 15 mole percent of Se or elemental selenium powder 0.5 to 3 mg or BiSepowder 0.5 to 3 mg or HSe or Se vapor in vacuum chamber or diethyl selenide or any other selenium source.

Preferably annealing of the p type semiconductor is performed in a thermal reactor. The thermal reactor is preferably either a tubular resistive furnace containing a quartz tube where the ex situ annealing is carried out or a pressurized and sealed evaporation chamber with a resistive heater a gas inlet and a gas outlet or in a vacuum chamber.

When using a tubular resistive thermal reactor the gas pressure is preferably set at 1 atmosphere with a noble gas preferably flowing in the range of 0.25 to 0.5 l min. More preferably when using a tubular resistive thermal reactor the gas pressure is set at 1 atmosphere with argon gas.

When using an evaporation chamber a noble gas preferably argon flow is preferably controlled in a way that the internal gas pressure in the reactor is in the range of 1 to 50 milli Torr. Ex situ annealing is preferably performed using a flowing noble gas to improve the phase formation and the electrical properties of the layers. In a preferred embodiment ex situ annealing is performed at 400 450 C. for 2 to 5 hours in flowing noble gas preferably argon gas.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared using chemical bath deposition. In a preferred embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared from a solution containing bismuth nitrate copper nitrate and sodium selenosulfate NaSeSO . Preferably the deposition temperature is in the range of 40 C. to 60 C.

In one embodiment of chemical bath deposition a reacting solution is created by the mixture of two solutions solution A and a solution B into an aqueous mixture. Preferably solution A is a mixture of bismuth Bi nitrate and copper Cu nitrate. In a preferred embodiment Solution A totals 5 to 10 ml and contains 11 mM l of bismuth Bi nitrate and up to 30 mM l of copper Cu nitrate. Preferably solution A has a Cu concentration in the range of 20 to 30 mM l.

Preferably solution B is a mixture of seleneous Se compounds. In a preferred embodiment solution B totals 20 to 35 ml and contains 50 mM l seleneous Se compounds. Preferably p type semiconductor layers with compositions up to 28 mole percent of copper are prepared by varying copper concentration in the solution A from 0 mM l to 30 mM l.

The pH of the reacting solution is preferably maintained in the range of 8 to 9. In one alternate embodiment sodium hydroxide NaOH and or ammonium hydroxide NHOH is used to increase the pH up to 12. CuBiSelayers are deposited on substrates at temperature in the range of room temperature 25 C. to 100 C. In this process selenium II is reacted with sodium sulfite NaSO to produce sodium selenosulfate NaSeSO while triethanolanime TEA is used as a chelating agent to dissolve bismuth III in the reacting solution.

The substrate is any surface capable of bonding to the layers. Preferably the substrate is optically flat. The substrate is preferably corning glass. The substrate is preferably cleaned in soap washed in water and subsequently in isopropanol.

The layers are preferably prepared by a multiple dip process for obtaining micron thick layers. For every dip a new mixture with solution A and B is preferably prepared. Preferably each deposition is carried out for 30 minutes. After every deposition the layer is preferably washed with water and blown dry preferably with nitrogen gas. The deposition conditions e.g. elemental concentration solution volume temperature and time are preferably optimized for i adhesion of the particles on substrate ii minimal degradation of the layers by the solution in the subsequent dips iii large aerial composition homogeneity and iv thickness homogeneity in the layer.

BiSesemiconductors doped with Cu are preferably prepared by chemical bath deposition following the overall chemical reaction 1 Bi TEA CuSeSO 2OH CuBiSeSOHO TEA Reaction 1

Where TEA is an abbreviation for Triethanolamine a chelating agent used in this case to dissolve Bismuth cations in aqueous solution.

Table 1 lists sample embodiments that were prepared using chemical deposition. As shown each semiconductor layer is listed with the following columns in the following order sample name composition mole percentages of Cu Bi and Se Cu Bi ratio layer thickness determined semiconductor type by Hall coefficient and or Seebeck coefficient and thermal treatment. The layers were prepared by chemical bath deposition as described above at temperature of 40 C. 50 C. Layers were deposited from 9 hours to 35 hours. Copper rich layers are deposited for longer time than bismuth rich layers. As examples the BiSelayer was deposited for 9 hours while CuBiSeand CuBiSelayers were deposited for 22 hours and 35 hours respectively.

Composition mole percentages were determined using x ray fluoroscopy XRF having a resolution of 1 mole percentage for Cu 1 mole percentage for Bi and 2 mole percentage for Se. Therefore all values listed include at least a variance of 1 mole percentage for Cu 1 mole percentage for Bi and 2 mole percentage for Se.

The Hall coefficient are deduced from Hall effect measurements performed in the dark and at room temperature by the Van der Pauw Hall method with four probes on 1 cmlayers using an Accent machine. Indium metal dots are used as contact materials. The Hall effect characterizes a sample of semiconductor material. The measurement of the Hall coefficient can be successfully completed with a current source voltmeter and a magnet. From the measurements made the following properties of the material were calculated i the sheet resistance from which the resistivity can be inferred for a sample of a given thickness ii the doping type i.e. if it is a p type or n type material deduced from the sign of the coefficient iii the sheet carrier density of the majority carrier the number of majority carriers per unit area iv the mobility of the majority carrier.

NSC is an abbreviation for not significant coefficient. NP is an abbreviation for not performed because the Hall measurement gave a significantly negative coefficient.

The Seebeck coefficients were determined from electrical measurements performed in the dark with two probes on a 0.5 0.8 cmlayers. The Seebeck coefficient is a thermoelectric measure of the magnitude of voltage produced by a temperature gradient across a material. In semiconductors temperature differences induce majority carriers holes for p type or electrons for n type to diffuse from the hotter area of the gradient to the cooler area. The movement of carriers creates a DC potential namely the Seebeck coefficient for electrons the voltage or coefficient is negative and for holes this is a positive voltage. The Seebeck measurement setup is constituted of a heater and a split ferromagnetic chuck to create a temperature gradient on the semiconducting layers. In general Seebeck measurements are known to be more sensitive to the carrier movement than Hall measurements.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared using solid state synthesis. In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared using solid state synthesis starting from CuSe 99 pure and BiSe 99 pure powders. In another embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared using solid state synthesis starting from Cu 99 pure Bi 99 pure and Se 99 pure powders. After mixing grinding and pressing the powders into a pellet in the desired ratio annealing is preferably performed in a one zone or three zone tube furnace in flowing gas more preferably argon gas or in sealed quartz tubes preferably containing a noble gas more preferably a 0.5 bar argon gas.

The annealing is preferably carried out at temperature above 400 C. up to 750 C. for 2 to 24 hours. A slow cooling rate of 1 C. min is preferably applied to promote the growth of large crystals. Layers are preferably made by cleaving the crystals either mechanically or chemically creating bulk samples.

For example in one embodiment bulk samples are mechanically sliced with either a diamond saw or a laser beam perpendicularly to the growth axis to yield layers. In another embodiment the bulk sample is chemically sliced by a slurry containing oxidants such as potassium permanganate hydrogen peroxide nitric acid bromine strong acids hydrofluoric acid hydrobromic acid hydrochloric acid phosphoric acid and medium reagents water acetic acid alcohols .

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared by thermal evaporation whereby a boat containing a powder mixture is heated in a sealed deposition chamber causing the mixture to evaporate. The evaporated mixture then condenses onto the substantially cooler substrate. The boat is preferably made of tungsten or molybdenum. The boat is heated until the powder mixture is evaporated. Preferably the heated powder mixture is the desired p type semiconductor composition. In a preferred embodiment the heated powder mixture is BiSeand CuSe powders or Cu Bi and Se powders more preferably a mixture described above in table 1. The pressure within the deposition chamber is preferably in the range of 10or 10Torr to minimize reaction between the vapor and the atmosphere.

Preferably the boat is heated using either resistance heating Joule effect or bombardment with a high energy electron beam preferably several KeV from an electron beam gun electron beam heating . Preferably the evaporated mixture is deposited through condensation on the substrate as layers. The layers are preferably deposited on a substrate kept at room temperature. The evaporation rates as well as the thickness are preferably controlled by a quartz crystal monitor. The deposition rate is preferably in the range of 0.1 nm s to 5 nm s. The distance between the boat and the substrate is preferably in the range of 5 cm to 20 cm more preferably about 10 cm. Afterwards the layers are then preferably annealed preferably at temperature above 250 C. for 10 minutes to 5 hours in flowing gas preferably argon gas for good crystallinity and good phase formation as described above.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared by Pulse Laser Deposition. In pulse laser deposition a target made of the desired layer composition is sealed within a deposition chamber and bombarded by a high energy source preferably electrons or photons e.g. laser .

Preferably the target is made by annealing the powder as described in above for Solid State Synthesis of Bulk Crystals. The target is preferably loaded in a stage that is rotated about normal to the surface of the substrate. The center of the target preferably coincides with the center of the substrate. Preferably the distance between the target and the substrate is in the range of 3 to 10 cm. Preferably the optimum distance between the target and the substrate is about 4 to 5 cm depending on the size of the resulting plasma plume.

In a preferred embodiment the deposition chamber is a standard Neocera Pulse Laser Deposition chamber and the high energy source is an excimer KrF laser Lambda Physik Compex 201 248 nm operated at 260 mJ and in the frequency range of 1 Hz to 20 Hz. Preferably the laser beam produced by this high energy source is focused onto the target with a converging lens. Preferably the laser beam is incident on the target at 45 degrees. The laser beam is preferably focused onto a 3 1 mmspot on a target with a fluence of 0.1 3 J cm.

The surface of each target is preferably cleaned in situ by exposure to thousand laser shots prior to every deposition. The target is preferably rotated in order to avoid non stoichiometry resulting from localized evaporation from the same region in the target. During the deposition the substrate is preferably heated more preferably to a temperature up to 500 C. In one embodiment the substrate is heated using Joule effect heating although other heating means may also be used. The pressure inside the deposition chamber is preferably kept at 1 to 5 mTorr with a flowing noble gas preferably argon.

Layers deposited either at low temperatures for example room temperature at low fluences for example 0.15 J cm or at high frequencies for example 20 Hz are preferably subsequently annealing in situ in the deposition chamber or ex situ in a tube furnace as described above. Preferably such layers are annealed at temperatures above 250 C.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition. In this embodiment the process is based on the use of organometallic precursors to deposit p type semiconductor layers. Preferably the precursors are one or more metal alkyls. The basic reactions for the growth of compound semiconductors starting from organometallic compounds are as follows RM R X MX n R R . In the case of Cu Bi Se layers the reaction follows reaction 2 RCu R Bi R Se CuBiSeR R R .

In this embodiment the system generally consists of three sub systems the reactor vessel the gas mixing manifold and the heat source. The reactor vessel is preferably a horizontal low pressure and cold wall reactor. The horizontal design of the reactor vessel is advantages as it helps provide a uniform and controlled gas flow over the substrate and provides for a direct extension for large volume applications. The gas mixing manifold is preferably fully automated with sealed valves and electronic mass flow controllers. The substrate is preferably either heated by inductively coupling RF radio frequency power or by UV Halogen lamp at temperature above 250 C.

After the precursors in a liquid form are injected in a vaporization chamber towards injectors the precursor vapors are transported by a gas preferably argon gas to the substrate. The pressure inside the reactor is preferably kept at 100 to 500 Torr. The gas flow in the reactor is preferably highly laminar at optimum growth rate. Solvents used to dissolve the organics preferably include toluene tetrahydrofuran dichloromethane chloroform 2 Methyltetrahydrofuran etc. . . . Organometallics employed in the process preferably include dimethyl selenide diethyl selenide tertbutyl selenide diisopropyl selenide bis ethylisobutrylacetato copper bis ethylbutyrylacetato copper copper diselenophosphate copper imidodiselenophosphinate copper hexafluoroacetylacetonate trimethyl bismuth bis bis trimethylsilyl methyl bismuth tert butyl imido tris diethyl amido bismuth diseleno imido diphoshanto bismuth etc. . . . In a preferred embodiment Bi Se films doped with Cu are deposited from diseleno imido diphoshanto bismuth and copper diselenophophate precursors dissolved in tetrahydrofuran solvent.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared by spray deposition. The spray system in spray deposition is preferably constituted of 3 basic units i the generation of the spray ii the spray transport unit and iii the deposition chamber. This embodiment is advantageous for high volume deposition since the system can be extended by including an additional unit a roll to roll system for deposition on kilometer long tape substrate.

A solution either organic or aqueous is preferably introduced in the spraying reactor by injection. The spray is preferably produced by a piezoelectric ceramic nozzle. In a preferred embodiment the spray is produced by a piezoelectric ceramic nozzle vibrating at frequency in the range of 800 kHz to 1200 kHz. The size of the droplets produced by the nozzle depends considerably on the vibrating frequency. In a preferred embodiment the spray is produced by a piezoelectric ceramic nozzle vibrating at high frequency of 1200 kHz generating small droplets capable of producing uniform layers.

One embodiment of the spray transport unit is a tube. Preferably the tube is a quartz tube having a dimension designed to produce a laminar spray flow at proximity of the substrate. Preferably the diameter of the tube is about 1 2 cm. The distance between the tube and the substrate is preferably kept in the range of 2 cm to 15 cm.

Preferably a noble gas more preferably argon is used as a deposition gas. Preferably a noble gas more preferably argon is used as the transport during deposition. The substrate is sprayed preferably for about a 5 to 20 minutes deposition time thereby providing for layers with thickness up to 1 m. Preferably during deposition the substrate is maintained at a temperature up to 800 C. Preferably the deposition is performed at low temperatures in the range of 25 C. to 300 C. to avoid the loss of selenium.

Preferably an ex situ or in situ annealing in the deposition chamber is carried out to achieve better crystallinity and phase formation as described above. The aqueous spray solution is preferably a mixture of bismuth nitrate hydrate copper nitrate hydrate lithium chloride and seleneous acid. Preferably the spray solution is dissolved in 200 mL of 3 nitric acid solution. When using an organic solution the viscosity plays an important role for obtaining uniform layer. The viscosity of the organic solution using solvents such as ethanol isopropanol toluene tetrahydrofuran dichloromethane chloroform 2 Methyltetrahydrofuran etc . . . is preferably in the range of 1 to 5 centipoises. Metallorganics employed for the deposition of Cu Bi Se is preferably similar to the one listed for Metal Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition above.

In one embodiment the p type semiconductor is prepared by ink jet printing. In this embodiment the system is comprises of an ink reservoir an automated ink jet head for example a drop on demand nozzle and a motion stage for supporting the substrate. Preferably in this embodiment the deposition is performed at room temperature and at ambient atmospheric pressure. A few milliliter of ink from the ink reservoir are prepared for each jetting session and expelled out the ink jet head. The distance between the ink jet head and the substrate is preferably optimized to few hundred micrometers from 100 to 500 m .

In a preferred embodiment the ink jet head is a piezoelectric nozzle whereby a pulsed voltage preferably with a period of few milliseconds is applied to deposit droplets of ink onto the substrate. When the voltage is applied the piezoelectric material changes shape which generates a pressure pulse in the fluid forcing a droplet of ink from the nozzle. Preferably the deposition time is about few minutes.

Preferably either a solvent ink or an aqueous ink is employed. Solvent inks are preferably based on organic chemical compounds that have high vapor pressures such as aliphatic hydrocarbons ethyl acetate glycol ethers formaldehyde acetonitrile dimethylsulfoxide and acetone. In one embodiment the solvent ink used to deposit Cu Bi Se layers is a solution containing suspended BiSeand CuSe nanoparticles in acetonitrile. In yet another embodiment the ink is prepared by dissolving bismuth nitrate copper nitrate and seleneous acid in dimethylsulfoxide. Due to environmental issues non toxic solvent inks or aqueous inks are preferred. In a preferred embodiment an aqueous ink employed for the deposition is prepared from bismuth nitrate copper nitrate seleneous acid lithium chloride and nitric acid dissolved in water.

Light is absorbed by an absorber material the n type semiconductor the p type semiconductor or a combination thereof. The absorption of the light generates electrons and holes. The electrons and holes are separated by the built in electric field generated by the p n junction of the n type semiconductor and the p type semiconductor . The electrons generated at the p n junction flow towards the n type semiconductor which can be captured as produced electricity at the transparent electrically conductive material and the second electrically conducing material . Preferably the transparent electrically conductive material is optically transparent to allow for light to pass through.

Preferably the p type semiconductor is one of the numerous embodiments described above in table 1 and elsewhere. Preferably the n type semiconductor is a wide bandgap semiconductor with energy exceeding 2 eV for example but not limited to doped bismuth selenide zinc oxide doped zinc oxide titanium oxide cadmium sulfide doped cadmium sulfide cadmium zinc sulfide doped copper oxide and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the n type semiconductor is a CdS ZnS Zn O OH S CdZnS Cd O OH S In S In OH S and other wide band gap p type semiconductors. In one embodiment the n type semiconductor is a Bi Se doped with Cu n type semiconductor whereby the molar ratio of Cu is less than or equal to 28 percent. In a preferred embodiment the n type semiconductor is a Bi Se doped with Cu n type semiconductor whereby the molar ratio of Cu is less than or equal to 20 percent.

The transparent electrically conductive material and the second electrically conductive material are any electrically conducting means. Preferably the transparent electrically conductive material is made of transparent conducting layers e.g. indium tin oxide ITO gallium doped indium tin oxide fluorine doped tin oxide zinc oxide doped zinc oxide carbon nanotube networks grapheme networks of polymers and its derivatives or combinations thereof. Preferably the second electrically conductive material is made of a electrically conducing metal for example nickel nickel tungsten alloys copper silver platinum molybdenum aluminum gold or chromium gold alloys.

Preferably a third electrically conductive layer not shown for simplicity is positioned juxtapose to the transparent electrically conductive material and provides for easy low electrical resistance connection. In a preferred embodiment the third electrically conductive layer is made of a electrically conducing metal for example nickel nickel tungsten alloys copper silver platinum molybdenum aluminum gold or chromium gold alloys. In a more preferred embodiment the third electrically conductive material has a width of a 3 microns to 1 mm and a length 1 to 2 mm shorter than the cell length is deposited in the center of the device and on top of the transparent electrically conductive material to collect the electrons from the transparent conducting layer as well as to provide an excellent contact with the outside electrical circuit.

In one embodiment a substrate is used to provide structural support to the a photovoltaic device thereby supporting the p type semiconductor n type semiconductor transparent electrically conductive material and second electrically conductive material . In one embodiment the p type semiconductor n type semiconductor transparent electrically conductive material second electrically conductive material or a combination thereof provide enough structural integrity to forgo the use of a separate substrate. Preferably the photovoltaic device is a series of layers each layer less than 600 nm in thickness forming a thin layer thin film . Preferably the photovoltaic device is manufactured using one of the methods described above.

The photovoltaic device shown is preferably combined with a plurality of such devices forming an array of photovoltaic devices. As known in the art the photovoltaic device shown is just one of the myriad of devices capable of using the Bi Se doped with Cu p type semiconductor. For example transistors e.g. BJT MOSFET etc. solar cells diodes light emitting diode silicon controlled rectifier digital and analog integrated circuits thermoelectric devices and quantum computing devices may be constructed using the Bi Se doped with Cu p type semiconductor. However due to the optimal absorption characteristics and low cost the p type semiconductor is preferably used as a material in a photovoltaic device.

The semiconductor transition layer is a semiconductor having a mixture of p type and n type semiconductor properties. Preferably the semiconductor transition layer is a Bi Se doped with Cu semiconductor. In a preferred embodiment the semiconductor transition layer is a Bi Se doped with Cu semiconductor having a molar percentage of Cu between 20 and 28 percent.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

