---

title: Selectively mixing media during a group communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed selectively mixing media at an application server arbitrating a group communication session for a communication group. In an embodiment, the application server receives media, from one or more session participants of the group communication session, for transmission to the communication group. The application server determines a number of session participants that are providing the received media. The application server determines whether to bypass the received media from entry into a de-jitter buffer based at least in part on the determined number, wherein the de-jitter buffer is configured to queue media from session participants for mixing by the application server during the group communication session. For example, the application server can determine to bypass the received media from entry into the de-jitter buffer if the number is below a threshold number. The application server transmits the received media to the communication group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088630&OS=09088630&RS=09088630
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09088630
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100708
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 225 130 entitled SELECTIVELY MIXING MEDIA DURING A GROUP COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Jul. 13 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Provisional Application No. 61 224 797 entitled Media Forwarding For a Group Communication Session In A Wireless Communications System filed Jul. 10 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to selectively mixing media during a group communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments are directed selectively mixing media at an application server arbitrating a group communication session for a communication group. In an embodiment the application server receives media from one or more session participants of the group communication session for transmission to the communication group. The application server determines a number of session participants that are providing the received media. The application server determines whether to bypass the received media from entry into a de jitter buffer based at least in part on the determined number wherein the de jitter buffer is configured to queue media from session participants for mixing by the application server during the group communication session. For example the application server can determine to bypass the received media from entry into the de jitter buffer if the number is below a threshold number. The application server transmits the received media to the communication group.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to in a given AT AT A sends a request to the application server via the RAN to initiate a group communication session. For example the group communication session may correspond to a push to talk PTT or push to transfer PTX session and the transmission of the request in may be prompted based on a user of AT A pressing a PTT or PTX button on AT A. The application server receives the group communication session request from AT A and transmits an announce message in one or more sectors of the wireless communication system . At least ATs B . . . E receive the announce message and determine to join the announced group communication session. Accordingly ATs B . . . E send a call accept message to the application server and also send a registration message e.g. BCMCSFlowRegistration message to the RAN to register to the group communication session and . The call accept message and registration message from each of ATs B . . . E may either be sent within separate messages on a reverse link access channel or alternatively may be bundled within the same message.

After receiving a call accept message from a first responder to the announce message from among ATs B . . . E the application server grants the floor for the group communication session to AT A . Accordingly after receiving the floor grant message AT A plays a tone to indicate to a user of AT A that the user can begin speaking and AT A begins transmitting frames on a reverse link channel to the application server . The series of frame transmissions from can correspond to data frames that actually include voice data or alternatively can correspond to silence frames that do not actually include voice data.

Each frame transmission can correspond to a real time transport protocol RTP packet or datagram or alternatively a RTCP RTP Control Protocol packet. A header portion of a 40 octet overhead RTP packet may be configured as follows 

Referring to Table 1 the fields of the RTP packet header portion are well known in the art. However certain fields are discussed in more detail with respect to embodiments described in more detail below and as such will be referred to briefly in this section. For example the contribution count CC field Sequence Number field Timestamp field and SSRC number field will now be addressed briefly. The CC field is an optional field that can hold a contributing source CSRC count value. Although not shown on the header diagram of Table 1 above the 12 octet header of the CC field can optionally be expanded to include more contributing sources. Contributing sources can be added by a mixer at the application server and are relevant for conferencing applications where elements of the data payload have originated from different computers. For point to point communications CSRCs are not necessarily required. The Sequence Number field holds a unique reference number which increments by one for each RTP packet sent from a particular source or AT. The Sequence Number field allows the receiver to reconstruct the sender s packet sequence. The Timestamp field corresponds to the time that the RTP packet was transmitted by the AT. The Timestamp field allows the receiving AT s to buffer and playout the data in a continuous stream. The SSRC number field corresponds to a number that identifies the source of the RTP packet which in identifies AT A. The SSRC number can be provisioned by the application server at the start of the group communication session.

After the RTP header portion the RTP packet includes a data payload portion. The data payload portion can include digitized samples of voice and or video. The length of the data payload can vary for different RTP packets. For example in voice RTP packets the length of the voice sample carried by the data payload may correspond to 20 milliseconds ms of sound. Generally for longer media durations e.g. higher rate frames the data payload either has to be longer as well or else the quality of the media sample is reduced.

Returning to of the frames transmitted from AT A can correspond to full rate frames e.g. 8.6 kpbs that have a large data payload in the RTP packet half rate frames e.g. 4.3 kpbs that include a medium data payload in the RTP packet th rate frames e.g. 1.0 kpbs that include a small data payload in the RTP packet and so on. While references are generally made to EVRC A it will be readily apparent how these embodiments can be modified to accommodate other vocoders that include different frame rate options. As will be appreciated when a user of AT A is speaking AT A transmits higher rate frames than when the user of AT A is not speaking and AT A is transmitting silence frames. The application server includes a media control complex MCC B module that handles the receipt of a media stream from floor holders and the transcoding of an output stream to one or more listening group members to the group communication session. In other words the MCC module replicates and re broadcasts the frames within RTP packets from AT A to each of ATs B . . . E. Accordingly a series of frame transmissions from AT A that are received at the MCC module B of the application server may be represented as follows 

As noted above the MCC module B receives the input stream as illustrated above in Table 2 and generates or transcodes an output stream that is transmitted to ATs B . . . E. Accordingly based on Table 2 the output stream generated by the MCC module B of the application server may be configured as follows 

As shown in Table 3 above the output stream is configured such that AT A s frame transmissions are not transmitted back to AT A but are rather transmitted to ATs B . . . E in Table 2 above.

As the output stream is generated by the MCC module B the application server transmits RTP packets including output frames from the output stream to ATs B . . . E as a series of group messages and ATs B . . . E monitor the group messages for the group communication session and . The group communication session then continues for a period of time until a user of AT A determines to give up the floor . can correspond to an explicit instruction from AT A to give up the floor or based on a period of inactivity from AT A i.e. too many silence frames .

After determining AT A has given up the floor to the group communication session the application server sends a floor release message to ATs B . . . E . Assume that a user of AT B and at least one of ATs C . . . E determine to attempt to gain control of the floor and send floor request messages to the application server and . The application server thereby receives multiple floor request messages and evaluates priority levels of the ATs requesting the floor to determine the AT that will next be granted the floor. For example based on the type of group communication session the RAN may evaluate one or more priority tables maintained at the RAN and may grant the floor to a highest priority AT from among the ATs requesting the floor. For example the priority tables may be configured as follows 

In assume that the application server determines AT B has the highest priority level from among the requesting AT for the call type of the group communication session and the application server sends a floor grant message to AT B. Next AT B plays a tone to notify a user of AT B that AT B now has the floor and AT B begins transmitting frames e.g. data frames silence frames etc. within one or more RTP packets to the application server which are then converted into an output stream by the MCC module B and re transmitted to ATs A and C . . . E . It will be appreciated that and are performed in the same manner as and as described above with respect to AT A and as such and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

As is characteristic of a half duplex session certain ATs in the group communication session of only transmit frames e.g. within RTP packets while other ATs in the group communication session only receive frames e.g. within RTP packets . An alternative to the process of is a full duplex group communication session which is described below with respect to . In a full duplex session each participant to the session can both transmit and receive frames e.g. within RTP packets .

In B instead of granting the floor to the session initiator i.e. AT A the application server sends a message to each AT that has joined the group communication session indicating that the session can begin B. Upon receiving the message B any of ATs A . . . E can begin speaking and thereby send data frames or else can remain silent and send silence frames B B B.

An example of the input stream from ATs A . . . E e.g. the frames included within RTP packets from ATs A . . . E for particular timeslots that are received at the MCC module B of the application server may be represented as follows 

Referring to Table 5 above each of ATs A . . . E is transmitting frames over timeslots 10t . . . T at a given data rate. In particular AT A is sending a series of half rate frames e.g. which indicates that a user of AT A is likely speaking to ATs B . . . E and sending voice data while ATs B . . . E are sending a series of th rate frames e.g. which indicates that the users of ATs B . . . E are likely listening to AT A have walked away from their phones etc. .

Returning to in B the MCC module of the application server includes each of the frames from the input streams at each time interval t de jitters the aggregated media stream and then generates an output stream that includes all the media content from each of ATs A . . . E for that time interval. The application server then sends the resultant media stream to each of ATs A . . . E as a series of aggregated frames within one or more RTP packets. However it is appreciated that each of ATs A . . . E receives an aggregated media stream containing frames from all session participants except itself to avoid feedback problems. Thus AT A receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs B . . . E AT B receives an output stream composed of aggregated media from ATs A and C . . . E and so on.

As noted above the MCC module B receives the frames from ATs A . . . E i.e. the input stream as illustrated above in Table 5 above and then generates or transcodes output streams that are transmitted to ATs A . . . E e.g. which are each different because each output stream omits the frames of the input stream received from the target in order to reduce feedback . Accordingly based on Table 5 above the output stream generated by the MCC module B of the application server over timeslots 10t . . . T may be configured as follows 

As shown in Table 6 above due to a simplistic brute force forwarding implementation of the group communication session the aggregated media frames to ATs A . . . E at each timeslot of the output stream has a total data rate equal to the sum of the data rates for frames e.g. or RTP packets from ATs other than itself.

With respect to the conventional half duplex implementation for the group communication session in it will be appreciated that bandwidth utilization is superior as compared to the full duplex implementation for the group communication session of . However the inability of ATs to transmit to the group can at times be problematic e.g. if a current floor holder does not give up the floor and keeps on talking about irrelevant issues . In half duplex the current floor holder would be oblivious to the sentiment of the group because the floor holder cannot receive feedback from the other group members until the floor is released.

This problem does not occur in the full duplex implementation of . However the bandwidth requirements of a full duplex implementation are high because for N group communication session participants each participant receives an aggregated output stream having N 1 combined media flows which consumes a relatively high amount of bandwidth. Also aggregating a high number of media frames to form the media frames of the output stream can be processing intensive at the application server . Also the MCC module of the application server does not distinguish between media flows. Thus silence frames are granted the same priority as data frames in the output stream when the frames contend for the same timeslot in the output stream.

Upon receiving each of the frames in C the controller A of the particular MCC B that is handling the media exchange for the server arbitrated group communication session adds each received frame from C into a corresponding queue in the de jitter buffer B for the associated AT C. When the mixer C is ready the mixer C removes one or more frames from the respective queues of the de jitter buffer B for a particular timeslot and performs a mixing operation on the one or more frames C. In the case of half duplex there will typically frames from only one AT i.e. the current floor holder so that actual mixing of media need not be performed the de jitter buffer need not be used and frames can simply be forwarded from the MCC B as received without header modification. Accordingly is primarily directed to a process performed for a full duplex session. In the case of full duplex there will typically be frames from more than one AT e.g. although not necessarily from each AT per timeslot such that the mixer C mixes the actual media or payload portion within each frame for a particular timeslot as is known in the art. As will be appreciated it is also possible in full duplex to have frames received from only one AT for a period of time as in half duplex such as when one session participant is doing most of the speaking during the session. However when a single frame is received during a full duplex session the de jitter buffer B is still used as when multiple frames are received such that delays associated with the de jitter buffer B are still experienced. After mixing the frame s in C the controller A directs the mixed frame s to be transmitted to the group.

Referring to a data stream e.g. a series of frames is received from each of ATs A . . . E at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of the group communication session C. The controller A adds each received frame from C to a queue in the de jitter buffer B for the associated AT C. As shown in the queues for each of ATs A . . . E show a number of frames e.g. denoted by the letter of the corresponding AT from which the frames are received that are waiting to be processed or mixed by the mixer C. When frames for a given timeslot arrive at the top of their respective queues the controller A removes these frames from the queues in the de jitter buffer B and sends these frames to the mixer C for mixing C. As such the mixer C mixes the frames from each of ATs A . . . E for a given timeslot in C. Then the controller A directs the mixed frames to be transmitted to each session participant of the group communication session C. As shown in the mixed frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT such that the mixed frame sent to AT A includes frames from ATs B C D E the mixed frame sent to AT B includes frames from ATs A C D E the mixed frame sent to AT C includes frames from ATs A B D E the mixed frame sent to AT D includes frames from ATs A B C E and the mixed frame sent to AT E includes frames from ATs A B C D.

Referring to a data stream e.g. a series of voice or high data rate frames is received from only AT A at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of a full duplex group communication session C. As noted above frames being received from only one AT e.g. AT A in this case can occur for a period during a full duplex session where only one AT is sending voice media for transmission to the group. As will be appreciated other frames can be received at the MCC B from one or more other of ATs B . . . E but these frames are assumed in to correspond to noise frames or silence frames e.g. low data rate frames etc. and the controller A is configured to drop such frames and refrain from adding such frames to a queue at de jitter buffer B. The controller A adds each received frame e.g. meaning each received voice frame or high data rate frame while excluding noise frames and or silence frames from C to a queue in the de jitter buffer B for the associated AT i.e. AT A C. As shown in the queue for each of AT A shows a number of frames e.g. denoted by the letter A in AT A s queue that are waiting to be processed or mixed by the mixer C whereas the queues for ATs B . . . E are each empty because it is assumed that no voice packets have been received from ATs B . . . E for a period of time. When a frame for AT A at a given timeslot arrives at the top of its queue the controller A removes the frame from the queue in the de jitter buffer B and sends the frame to the mixer C for mixing C. As such the mixer C performs a mixing operation on the frame from AT A for a given timeslot in C. In this case the mixing operation performed by the mixer C corresponds to formatting the media in the input frame such that the RTP header of the output frame is appropriate for the output stream e.g. the sequence number from AT A s input stream is modified to correspond to a correct sequence number for a next frame in the output stream and so on . Then the controller A directs the mixed or formatted in this case frame to be transmitted to one or more session participants of the group communication session C. As shown in the mixed frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT that is transmitting frames for the time slot. In this case because only AT A is transmitting frames for the current timeslot the formatted frame sent to each of ATs B . . . E includes only AT A s frame and AT A can be sent a NULL frame e.g. a frame including no media . Alternatively while not shown in instead of a NULL frame no frame may be transmitted to AT A in C.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the mixing of media from multiple frames that occurs at the mixer C in C as in is relatively processing intensive which is in part what necessitates the queuing of frames in the de jitter buffer B. Thus the mixer C generally cannot guarantee adequate performance when mixing media from multiple frames on the fly or in real time and as such the mixer C queues the frames and handles the mixing for each timeslot in turn. Increasing the size of the de jitter buffer B will thereby increase the audio quality of each frame in the output stream although increasing the de jitter buffer B size too far will create lag in the output stream.

On the other hand the mixing operation of re packaging or formatting one frame for a particular timeslot at the mixer C as in C in is not as processing intensive as the multiple media frame mixing of . Thus it is possible that such formatting can occur in real time without using the de jitter buffer B. However conventional group communication sessions that potentially mix multiple multiple media frames during a single timeslot e.g. as in a full duplex session as shown in queue frames in the de jitter buffer B irrespective of the number of frames being mixed for the timeslot.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to selectively queuing frames in the de jitter buffer B. As will be discussed below with respect to frames are added to the queues in the de jitter buffer B if the number of frames to be mixed for a given timeslot is greater than a threshold number of frames e.g. greater than one . However if the number of frames to be mixed is not greater than the threshold number of frames e.g. one frame for each timeslot in a given number of consecutive timeslots e.g. three timeslots six timeslots etc. then the de jitter buffer B is bypassed such that subsequent frames s to be mixed are passed directly to the mixer C e.g. for formatting or re packaging of the RTP header at least until the number of frames to be mixed in a particular timeslot is above the threshold number. In this manner delays associated with the de jitter buffer B can be reduced at least during timeslots when more intensive processing is not expected to be used by the mixer C.

Upon receiving each of the frames in C the controller A of the particular MCC B that is handling the media exchange for the server arbitrated group communication session determines the number of group session participants that are expected to currently be speaking A. For example the determination of A may correspond to a determination of how many frames received in A are non silence frames e.g. frames that have a data rate higher than etc. . In A the controller A determines whether the number determined in A is higher than a given threshold for a given number of timeslots e.g. one timeslot a number of timeslots equal to the depth of the queues in the de jitter buffer B a number of timeslots higher than the depth of the queues in the de jitter buffer B etc. . If the number is above the threshold for the given number of timeslots then the process advances to A A and A which generally correspond to C C and C respectively of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. However it will be appreciated that the particular mixing examples provided above with respect to C are intended to be non limiting examples of potential mixing methodologies and there are a number of ways in which the media of multiple frames can be mixed during a communication session in other embodiments of the invention. After A the process returns to A of and is performed for a subsequent timeslot.

Returning to A if the number is not above the threshold then the controller A determines to bypass the de jitter buffer B entirely A. In A it will be appreciated that it is possible that one or more queues of the de jitter buffer B may include frames that are waiting to be mixed by the mixer C. In this case in an example during a switch from mixing mode to forwarding or de jitter buffer bypass mode the controller A can format the queued packets or frames e.g. without mixing as necessary e.g. see description of A below and then forwards each queued packet for transmission to the group e.g. see description of A below . In an example if decision block A evaluates to N only after the number of speakers is below the threshold for a period of time greater than the depth of the queues of the de jitter buffer B it will be appreciated that the de jitter buffer B only includes queued frames from one particular AT and as such the dumping of the de jitter buffer B when decision block A evaluates to N can be performed without jitter because each forwarded frame is from the same AT. Once the queues in the de jitter buffer B are cleared the process advances to A.

Returning to A as will be appreciated the bypassing of the de jitter buffer B is not intended to imply that no buffer is used during the process but simply that the de jitter buffer B is not used e.g. at least for this particular timeslot . Other buffers such as a temporary storage buffer that simply holds incoming messages when received at the MCC B can still be used for temporary storage at the application server . The controller A directs the received frame s to the mixer C in A and the mixer C modifies e.g. formats and or re packages the header s of the received frame s from A to conform with the headers of the output stream frames. As noted above this can involve changing one or more fields of the RTP packet header used in the output stream so as to conform with an expected sequence number etc. The controller A then directs the formatted frame to be transmitted to one or more session participants of the group communication session A.

Referring to similar to a data stream e.g. a series of voice or high data rate frames is received from only AT A e.g. although silence or noise frames can still be received from other ATs and then discarded by the controller A at the MCC B of the application server that is handling the arbitration of the group communication session A. As noted above a frame being received from only one AT e.g. AT A in this case corresponds to a period during a full duplex session or hybrid full duplex session e.g. two or more participants can speak at the same time while other participants listen only where only one AT is sending voice media for transmission to the group. The controller A determines the number of group session participants that are speaking in this particular timeslot to be one A and then determines the number of speakers i.e. one to be below or equal to the speaker threshold A. As shown in it may be assumed that the number of speakers is below the speaker threshold for a sufficient amount of time to trigger the bypass operation. Accordingly the controller A directs the received frame from AT A to bypass the de jitter buffer B A and thereby sends the frame to the mixer C for re formatting A. As such the mixer C re formats the frame from AT A for a given timeslot in A whereby AT A s frame is formatted such that the RTP header of the output frame is appropriate for the output stream e.g. the sequence number from AT A s input stream is modified to correspond to a correct sequence number for a next frame in the output stream and so on . Then the controller A directs the formatted frame to be transmitted to ATs B . . . E. As shown in the formatted frame sent to each AT includes media from each other AT that is transmitting frames for the time slot. In this case because only AT A is transmitting frames for the current timeslot the formatted frame sent to each of ATs B . . . E includes only AT A s frame and AT A can be sent a NULL frame e.g. a frame including no media . Alternatively while not shown in instead of a NULL frame no frame may be transmitted to AT A in A.

As will be appreciated selectively using the de jitter buffer B on a timeslot by timeslot basis allows timeslots that do not necessarily require intensive processing to be transferred directly to the mixer C while bypassing the de jitter buffer B which can improve performance of the group communication session by avoiding delays associated with the de jitter buffer B during at least some timeslots of the group communication session. Further audio quality of re formatted packets that bypass the de jitter buffer B can be improved because packets need not be re encoded during the mixing process.

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been directed to selectively mixing frames during full duplex sessions it will be appreciated how the same general teachings can be applied within a hybrid full duplex implementation. In a hybrid full duplex session two or more participants can speak at the same time while other participants listen only. Thus during hybrid full duplex sessions where for a period of time whenever a lower than threshold number e.g. one of speakers are speaking for a given period of time the jitter buffer bypass procedure can be invoked to conserve resources at the MCC B that is arbitrating the hybrid full duplex session.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A non transitory storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

