---

title: SMS message notification arrangement
abstract: A method for applying personalized rules to an incoming e-mail message includes receiving an e-mail message addressed to a user and forwarding a copy of the e-mail message to a mobile communication device associated with the user. One or more pre-defined rules associated with the user are applied to the e-mail message. At least one of the pre-defined rules is identified that the e-mail message satisfies. The identified rule specifies that a text message such as an SMS message be sent to the mobile communication device indicating that an e-mail message satisfying the pre-defined rule has been received. The text message includes a link that allows the user to directly access the e-mail with the mobile communication device's user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037114&OS=09037114&RS=09037114
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09037114
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100112
---
Communication devices such as smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs personal computers and the like are commonly used to receive transmit store and display messages such as electronic mail e mail short message service SMS messages instant messages IM and even non text messages such as voice mail messages. Such communication devices may be provided with a messaging application executable on the device to manage such messages allowing the user to receive messages read or otherwise peruse or hear the contents of the messages and respond to save delete and or file the message in a folder on the communication device as desired. The messaging application typically provides a user interface that displays the messages stored at the communication device or at least a subset of those messages to the user in chronological or reverse chronological order.

The user interface typically displays on its top level or home screen a counter listing the number of unread messages. A user may periodically glance at the home screen on his or her communication device to see if any e mail messages have arrived since the last time they checked. However the value of this counter is diminished by the large volume of e mail received by a typical enterprise user this counter is almost always non zero. In fact the number of messages is often measured in the dozens and thus the relative importance of the counter to the user when it goes from say 52 to 53 is next to nil. In other words it can become very difficult for a user to identify e mail messages that are particularly important to them upon their arrival.

Many users particularly enterprise users can accumulate a significant number of e mail messages on their mobile communication devices. Accordingly the total number of messages both read and unread can become quite large. The user may have difficulty distinguishing between messages that are truly of high importance and which should be attended to immediately and those that can be read at a later time. In part because SMS and other text based messages are generally viewed as a real time method of communication many users will more often read a text message immediately even if they have unread e mail messages. As a result SMS messages do not tend to accumulate to the same degree as e mail messages. Users may therefore expect to see a much lower number of SMS messages on their home screen in comparison to e mail messages and indeed the number of unread SMS messages will often be zero. Therefore such users may be more inclined to read an SMS as soon as it arrives.

In one illustrative example the perceived importance of SMS messages can be leveraged in order to alert the user as to the arrival of an e mail message that they deem to be of high importance and which satisfy user defined rules that have been previously established. Specifically the user s mobile communication device is sent an SMS message indicating the arrival of an e mail message that satisfies the pre defined rule. The SMS message may provide any desired information concerning the e mail and in some cases may even incorporate all or part of the e mail message. In some implementations the SMS message also includes a link that allows the user to directly access the e mail with the mobile communication device s user interface.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The message server may be implemented for example on a network computer within the firewall of a corporation a computer within an ISP system or the like and acts as the main interface for e mail exchange over the Internet . Although other messaging systems might not require a message server system a mobile device configured for receiving and possibly sending e mail will normally be associated with an account on a message server. Two common message servers are Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Domino which are often used in conjunction with Internet mail routers not shown that route and deliver mail. Message servers such as the server typically offer functionality in addition to the sending and receiving of e mail they may also include dynamic database storage engines that have predefined database formats for data like calendars to do lists task lists e mail and documentation. The message server may further be configured to receive multimedia messages comprising images videos rich text format content and audio.

The wireless gateway and infrastructure provide a link between the Internet and wireless network . The wireless infrastructure determines the most likely network for locating a given user and tracks the user as they roam between countries or networks. A message is then delivered to the mobile device via wireless transmission typically at a radio frequency RF from a base station in the wireless network to the mobile device . The message is stored in the message store . The particular network may be virtually any wireless network over which messages may be exchanged with a mobile communication device.

As shown in a message such as an e mail message is sent by an e mail sender located somewhere on the Internet . In some implementations this message is fully in the clear and uses traditional Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP RFC 2822 Request for Comment 2822 published by the Internet Society Internet Message Format headers and Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME body parts to define the format of the mail message. The messaging application used by the sender generally provides separate data fields such as a message recipient field i.e. a TO field a message sender field i.e. a FROM field a carbon copy field i.e. a CC field a message subject field i.e. a SUBJECT field and a message body field for the ease of entering reading e mail information. In addition if the messaging application utilized by the sender allows for the indication of an importance level for the message such an indication may be inserted into the header of the message for example using the non standard x Priority field with a value indicating the importance level of the message. The importance level may be designated with a character string or a numeric value for example low normal or high if there are three possible levels of importance assignable by the messaging application utilized at the sender system or 0 for normal importance and 1 for high importance if only two levels of importance are assignable. These techniques are known to those skilled in the art.

The message arrives at the message server and is normally stored in a message store. In one implementation messages addressed to a message server account associated with a host system such as a home computer or office computer which belongs to the user of a communication device are redirected from the message server to the communication device as they are received. That is the messages may be pushed to the communication device . However in other implementations the messages may be pulled by the communication device from the message server . The user of the communication device may handle messages received at the message server account at a home or office computer as well as at the communication device by reading replying to forwarding deleting or archiving the received messages.

Regardless of the specific mechanism controlling the forwarding of messages to the communication device the message or possibly a translated or reformatted version thereof is sent to the wireless gateway . The wireless infrastructure includes a series of connections to wireless network . These connections could be Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Frame Relay or Ti connections using the TCP IP protocol used throughout the Internet. As used herein the term wireless network is intended to include three different types of networks those being 1 data centric wireless networks 2 voice centric wireless networks and 3 dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Such wireless networks will be known to those skilled in the art.

One currently popular example of a wireless network that may be employed operates in accordance with Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and General Packet Radio Service GPRS which often have the ability to send and receive packet based data such as e mail and Internet data. The packet data service provided by GPRS makes this possible. Without GPRS a GSM network cannot provide for the communication of e mail messages in a conventional manner. Put another way when an otherwise e mail capable mobile device utilizes a GSM network that does not make GPRS available the mobile device cannot send or receive e mail messages.

Message server may include an e mail filter that processes e mail for multiple e mail users. An e mail filter allows user customized rules to be applied to incoming e mail messages that allows the user to automatically perform a wide range of actions on the e mail message. In general the personalized rules can include any type of e mail filtering rules. In some implementations a given personalized rule identifies a specific component of the e mail message a specific value or set of values for the component and an action to take if the value or set of values is found within the component. For example e mail message components can generally include any component of an e mail message such as the to field the from field the subject the domain the account the server chain through which the message was delivered authentication information the message body and the presence or absence of an attachment. Commonly employed actions for a given rule typical include filtering out the message presenting the message to the user placing the message in a specific folder or forwarding the message to another server.

In addition to e mail another service often available on wireless networks is the short message service SMS . SMS is a service available on many communication devices that permits the sending of short messages also known as text messages between mobile phones other handheld devices computers and even standard landline phones. Unlike e mail SMS messaging does not involve the use of e mail like data fields but rather only a single message field for the entering reading of the text message.

SMS was originally designed as part of the GSM digital mobile phone standard but is now available on a wide range of networks including Third Generation 3G networks. For instance GSM networks without GPRS capability can still provide SMS service. The SMS service is sometimes offered as a premium service where messages are billed on a per message or per kilobyte basis. Wireless networks generally implement SMS with the use of a Short Message Service Center SMSC which acts as a store and forward system for relaying short messages. Messages are stored in the network until the destination communication device becomes available so an end user can receive or transmit an SMS message at any time whether a voice call is in progress or not.

As previously mentioned many users particularly enterprise users can accumulate a significant number of e mail messages on their mobile communication devices. Accordingly the total number of messages both read and unread can become quite large. The user may have difficulty distinguishing between messages that are truly of high importance and which should be attended to immediately and those that can be read at a later time.

In part because SMS and other text based messages are generally viewed as a real time method of communication many users will more often read a text message immediately even if they have unread e mail messages. As a result SMS messages do not tend to accumulate to the same degree as e mail messages. Users may therefore expect to see a much lower number of SMS messages on their home screen in comparison to e mail messages and indeed the number of unread SMS messages will often be zero. Therefore such users may be more inclined to read an SMS as soon as it arrives.

The perceived importance of SMS messages can be leveraged in order to alert the user as to the arrival of an e mail message that they deem to be of high importance and which satisfy user defined rules that have been previously established. Specifically the user could be sent an SMS message indicating the arrival of an e mail message that satisfies the pre defined rule. The SMS message may provide any desired information concerning the e mail and in some cases may even incorporate all or part of the e mail message. In some cases the SMS message also includes a link that allows the user to directly access the e mail with the mobile communication device s user interface. In the event that the e mail has not already been downloaded to the mobile communication device selection or activation of the link may cause the e mail to be downloaded and then opened.

The SMS message may be generated and sent by any suitable device. For instance in the arrangement shown in the SMS message may be generated and sent by the message server since that is the device that receives and forwards the e mail to the user s mobile communication device. Moreover as previously mentioned many message servers such as message server often already allows users to establish rules for managing their e mails. In the present case rules may be established that cause an SMS message to be generated when an e mail message is received that meets the rule s criterion or criteria. In another implementation the SMS message may be generated and sent by the user s PC particularly in those cases where the PC is already forwarding the e mail message to the user s mobile device. Various scheduling applications such as Microsoft Outlook for example currently provide an e mail filter that let users establish rules defining how e mail should be handled.

A given user can establish rules by interacting with rule management engine within the message server through user interface . Note that rule management engine facilitates adding removing and or modifying rules which are stored in rules datastore . Rules enforcement engine applies the rules within rules datastore to e mail messages that are received by the server . This can be accomplished using any standard mail protocol. For example in some implementations rule enforcement engine applies the rules using either the Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 protocol or the Internet Message Access Protocol 4 IMAP4 protocol by making calls through a POP3 application programming interface API or an IMAP4 API respectively. These calls facilitate access to the e mail messages stored in mail message store . In the event that the message server is a Microsoft Exchange Server that pushes messages to the communication device the architecture may also include an Exchange ActiveSync API not shown .

SMS API provides SMS message communication with the wireless network over network interface . In this way the SMS API can assist rule enforcement engine in composing an SMS message to be delivered to the user when an e mail message satisfying an appropriate rule is received. If other types of text messages are employed the appropriate API will be used instead of the SMS API .

It should be noted that instead of SMS messages other types of text messages may be sent to a mobile communication device in order to alert the user of receipt of an e mail message that satisfies pre established rules. For instance other text messaging services are currently available such as MMS multi media services for sending photos and other multi media items and mobile IM or IMS instant messaging services . Although these or other text messaging services may be employed for purposes of illustration SMS messaging services will continue to be discussed herein.

Turning now to an illustrative user interface for managing e mail rules will be described. As shown in the e mail interface provided by message server includes a displayed portion for managing e mail rules. The displayed portion of the user interface window for managing e mail rules is selected through the e mail rules tab . Once the tab has been selected the list of e mail rules is displayed. The list of e mail rules lists all currently active e mail rules in the order that they are applied. User interface buttons may be provided to change the order of the e mail rules in the list of e mail rules . Additionally a user interface window pane displays the contents of the e mail rule for a selected rule in the list of e mail rules . Other user interface objects are also provided for creating a new rule changing a rule deleting a rule or changing the actions that are associated with a particular rule.

Supporting the applications and in the architecture are an operating system and a hardware layer . In this illustrative embodiment the operating system is particularly adapted to operate on a resource limited device and may comprise for example Microsoft Windows CE. The hardware layer provides an abstraction of the physical hardware implemented on the device to the operating system and applications and above it. For example such physical hardware may typically include a processor e.g. a central processor or CPU system memory such as read only memory ROM and random accessory memory RAM bus structures peripheral systems drives display devices user controls and interfaces etc. The hardware may also include storage media for storing computer executable instructions i.e. code including either or both removable media and non removable media such as magnetic and optical media solid state memory and other conventional media. A UI is also provided by the architecture to support user interactivity and facilitate an effective user experience and will typically be embodied as a graphical user interface.

The various functional components operating on the wireless communications device may implement various interfaces allowing them to communicate among themselves as necessary. For instance the SMS application will typically interact with other applications executing on the mobile phone with the use of APIs that are respectively exposed by the other applications. For example an API which is exposed by e mail application enables the SMS application to invoke various functions pass parameters and exchange data with the e mail application . In particular the SMS application may use these API s to present a link to the user that allows the user to access the e mail directly from the SMS message screen.

The user may be provided with e mail handling options to either read the incoming message or establish a reminder by interfacing with the respective Read or Reminder icons and which are displayed on the UI by clicking on or otherwise activating the read icon the user can directly access the e mail in the e mail application . In some implementations other handling options may also be presented. For example in a re prioritize icon is displayed which can present a series of actions similar to that shown in . Depending on the hardware configuration of the mobile phone buttons and can be implemented using touch sensitive graphic icons soft keys on the phone or other various conventional controls. In this example e mail handling may be implemented by the SMS application operating on the mobile communication device in cooperation with the e mail application through appropriate APIs. In alternative implementations such e mail handling functionality could be implemented by a plug in or the like that works in cooperation with the SMS application and or the e mail application .

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or storage media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

