---

title: Methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture to control gloss quality
abstract: Example methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture to control gloss quality in printed images are disclosed. A disclosed example apparatus includes a print engine to print a plurality of images for respective ones of a plurality of colors, each image representing a plurality of different print parameter combinations, a scan module to measure a first plurality of light reflectances for respective ones of the plurality of images and the print parameter combinations, and a calibrator to calibrate an operation of the print engine for respective ones of the plurality of colors based on the first plurality of measured light reflectances, the operations of the print engine including at least one of an order of ink application, a rate of ink application, a density of ink application, or an applied amount of gloss enhancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08267498&OS=08267498&RS=08267498
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08267498
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100601
---
Multiple factors affect how persons perceive the quality of a printed image such as a photograph. Example factors include but are not limited to media type ink type resolution color accuracy and gloss quality e.g. shininess glossiness and or consistency of glossiness . While gloss quality may be objectively measured it may also be subjective in that different persons may perceive the glossiness of a printed image differently.

People are increasingly concerned with the gloss quality of printed images such as photographs color documents etc. However the gloss quality of printed images is generally dependent on multiple inter related and possibly conflicting variables. Example print parameters and or variables that may affect gloss quality of a printed image include but are not limited to media characteristics e.g. media type ink absorption rate glossiness of the media texture of the media etc. ink type number of inks ink flux e.g. the rate at which ink is applied ink density e.g. the amount of ink that is applied and or application of gloss enhancer GE . Images may also be printed using multiple passes. As such it may take a research and development team many years to achieve a desired gloss quality e.g. highest gloss best gloss consistency best perceived gloss most cost effective etc. for a specific combination of ink type and media type. Unfortunately the processes used to manufacture the ink and or the print media may change over time and thus a previously optimized gloss quality may no longer represent the best gloss quality that can be achieved. Moreover gloss quality may vary over time due to for example temperature ambient light media type media age ink age storage conditions changes in personal preferences etc.

Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture to control gloss quality of printed images are disclosed. In disclosed examples the gloss qualities of a set of printed test images and or tiles are measured and used to calibrate and or select print parameters and or variables used to print images. By using closed loop gloss quality calibration processes the gloss quality for any particular combination of ink type media type ambient conditions user preferences etc. can be controlled adjusted selected and or optimized. The example gloss quality calibration processes described herein may be carried out and or initiated by a user of the example printers described herein. In other words the user may prior to printing images initiate gloss quality calibration to improve control and or manage the gloss quality of the printed images. In some examples gloss quality calibration is performed when the printer is installed and or configured is performed periodically e.g. once a week after a certain number or printed images etc. or aperiodically e.g. when the user notices a change or degradation in gloss quality when a new batch of media is received from a manufacturer when a new batch of ink is received from a manufacturer when media type or ink type is changed etc. and or prior to initiating a large printing job for which gloss quality and or gloss consistency is important. Additionally or alternatively the example gloss quality calibration processes described herein may be performed during manufacturing or product test.

A disclosed example apparatus includes a print engine to print a plurality of images for respective ones of a plurality of colors each image representing a plurality of different print parameter combinations a scan module to measure a first plurality of light reflectances for respective ones of the plurality of images and the print parameter combinations and a calibrator to calibrate an operation of the print engine for respective ones of the plurality of colors based on the first plurality of measured light reflectances the operations of the print engine including at least one of an order of ink application a rate of ink application a density of ink application or an applied amount of gloss enhancer.

A disclosed example method includes printing a plurality of images for respective ones of a plurality of colors each image representing a plurality of different print parameter combinations measuring a first plurality of light reflectances for respective ones of the colors and the print parameter combinations and calibrating an operation of a print engine for respective ones of the colors based on the first plurality of measured light reflectances the operation of the print engine including at least one of an order of ink application a rate of ink application a density of ink application or an applied amount of gloss enhancer.

An example tangible article of manufacture storing machine readable instructions is the disclosed. The machine readable instructions when executed causing a machine to control gloss quality by printing a plurality of subimages for respective ones of a plurality of colors the subimages including a plurality of portions for respective ones of a plurality of print parameter combinations measuring a first plurality of light reflectances for respective ones of the plurality of portions and calibrating a plurality of operations of a print engine for respective ones of the plurality of colors based on the first plurality of measured light reflectances the operations of the print engine including at least one of an order of ink application a rate of ink application a density of ink application or an applied amount of gloss enhancer.

Color information may be stored in the example color map using any number and or type s of data structure s . For example the color map could include an entry e.g. a row of a table for each possible color with each entry identified by its corresponding RGB triplet. Example entries include a plurality of units of ink e.g. drops picoliters etc. for respective ink colors. To print a particular color the print engine queries the color map using the RGB triplet associated with the color to obtain the quantities of each color of ink to apply. As described below in connection with the identified quantities of ink can be applied in one or more print passes as specified and or controlled via the gloss control table to control the gloss quality of the resultant image s . The example color map of may be stored in any number and or type s of volatile and or non volatile memory ies memory device s and or storage device s .

To enable calibration control measurement estimation and or determination of gloss quality the example print engine of prints a gloss quality control test image on the media . The example gloss quality control test image of includes one or more sub images with each of the sub images corresponding to a particular test color. In some examples the print engine prints sub images for a representative subset of all the possible colors that can be printed by the printer i.e. the printer s gamut . The subset of colors may be determined when the printer is designed manufactured installed and or upgraded may be dynamically selected by a gloss quality calibrator and or may be selected by a user via a user interface . While the example gloss quality control test image of is a rectangular array of sub images other test image patterns may be used. For example a test image may include one or more spaced apart columns of sub images and or the sub images may be arranged in other patterns such as a circle a hexagon a square or a triangle.

Returning to print parameter combinations may be stored in the example print parameter combinations database using any number and or type s of data structure s . For example the combinations database could include an entry e.g. a row of a table for each combination to be tested. Each entry includes a plurality of values for respective ones of print parameters. An example entry of 300 0 and 100 6 corresponds to an ink density of 300 units of ink e.g. drops picoliters etc. no GE and an ink flux rate of 100 6 16.7 of the total 300 units of ink applied during each of six print passes. The example print parameters combinations database of may be stored in any number and or type s of volatile and or non volatile memory ies memory device s and or storage device s .

To measure light reflectances the example printer of includes a scan module and a reflection measurements database . The example scan module of measures the amount of light reflected by each portion of the gloss quality control test image and stores the measured light reflectances in the example reflection measurements database . As shown in the example scan module includes one or more light sources that direct light toward the test image . In some examples the light source s are positioned to illuminate the test image at angle of 20 degrees from perpendicular. The light source s may have fixed locations within the printer and or be moved or scanned to sequentially illuminate the portions . In some examples the example sensor includes an array of light sources to enable simultaneous measurement of light reflectances at different locations across the width of the media as the media passes through the printer . For instance light sources could be positioned within the printer at locations spaced across a media feed path of the printer with the locations corresponding to the columns of the portions .

The gloss quality of a portion can be determined by measuring the amount of light reflected at different angles. In the illustrated example of the light impinges on the test image at an angle of 20 degrees from perpendicular. Accordingly a sensor that is placed opposite the light source and at an angle of 20 degrees from perpendicular as depicted in will measure the shininess or gloss of an illuminated portion of the test image . In other words the sensor measures the amount of reflected specular light . As used herein a specular reflection or reflected specular light refers to the mirror like reflection of light by a surface i.e. the test image in which light from a single incoming direction is reflected into a single outgoing direction. The law of reflection states that the direction of the incoming light and the direction of the outgoing light will have the same angle with the respect to the normal of the surface.

Because the test image may not be completely or substantially mirror like some of the light will be scattered. The amount of the light that is scattered compared to the amount of specular light represents haze which represents a degradation of the gloss quality of test image . Additional sensors and placed on either side of the example sensor measure the amount of scattered light or haze. As used herein haze refers to the non specular light reflected by the surface of the test image . In the illustrated example of the sensors and are spaced two degrees apart from the sensor . While an example arrangement of the light source s and the sensors and is shown in other arrangements may be implemented. For example a scan module configured to directly measure blurriness or distinctness of the image DOI may be used. Additionally or alternatively the light source and the sensors and may be placed at different angles with respect to the normal of the surface. Also angular separations between the sensors and of other than two degrees may be implemented. Further one of the sensors and may be omitted.

In some examples the scan module of measures the light reflectances as the print engine prints the test image . In other words while the print engine is printing a portion of the test image the scan module can measure light reflectances for a previously printed portion of the test image . In other examples the print engine prints the test image and the test image is allowed to dry. When the printer and or the scan module determines that the test image should be dry a media feed module not shown of the printer can move the test image past the scan module . For example the feed module could move the media back into the printer and then move the media back out of the printer as the scan module measures the light reflectances. Additionally or alternatively a user of the printer could remove the media from the printer and insert the media with the test image imprinted thereon back into the printer e.g. into a media tray into a media input slot etc. to be scanned by the scan module .

The example sensor module of measures the gloss and haze for each of the portions of the test image and stores the measurements in the example reflections measurement database . shows an example data structure that may be used to store or represent measured light reflectances as gloss values and haze values . In the example data structure of a gloss value and a haze value are measured for each print parameter combination i.e. for each portion of each sub image and are stored in a rectangularly arranged table corresponding to the layout or arrangement of the portions within the sub images . The example reflections measurement database may be implemented using any number and or type s of volatile and or non volatile memory ies memory device s and or storage device s . While an example data structure is shown in any number and or type s of additional and or alternative data structures may be used to implement the example reflections measurement database . Further the fields and or data illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any way. Moreover the example data structure of may include fields and or data in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated fields and or data.

Returning to to select and or adjust print control parameters based on gloss and haze measurements the example printer of includes the example gloss quality calibrator . Any number and or type s of mathematical expression s measurement s and or estimation s may be used to represent and or characterize gloss quality. In general gloss quality may be computed from combination s of DOI mean gloss gloss standard deviation and or any combination of coefficients that may be used to mathematically express DOI DOI standard deviation mean gloss and or gloss standard deviation. Such parameters and or mathematical expressions may be used to for example model the physical response s of print media ink ink flux and or ink density for one or more particular printing systems. An example measure and or metric representative of gloss quality that the example gloss quality calibrator of may estimate compute and or use to control adjust manage and or optimize gloss quality is blurriness or DOI. DOI is inversely proportional to the ratio of haze e.g. the magnitude of light measured by the sensors and and gloss e.g. the magnitude of light measured by the sensor . An example estimate of DOI may be mathematically expressed as DOI 1 0.7266 0.1814 EQN 1 where H represents the measured haze which is the average of the light magnitudes measured by the sensors and and G represents measured gloss. While the example expression of EQN 1 represents an accurate estimate of DOI DOI may be estimated and or computed using any other mathematical expression s and or using any number and or type s of additional and or alternative measurement s and or estimation s . The example gloss quality calibrator computes DOI values for each of the portions of the example test image using the mathematical expression of EQN 1 . For a particular test color e.g. a particular sub image the gloss quality calibrator may compare DOI values to identify the print parameter combination resulting in the best gloss quality for that color. Those identified print parameters may be subsequently used when printing that color and or other colors nearby in the color gamut. In some examples when a color to be printed was not included in the example test image two or more test colors near the color to be printed can be selected and their corresponding gloss control parameters used to determine the gloss control parameters for the color to be printed. For example the gloss control parameters of the selected test colors could be interpolated to compute the gloss control parameters for the color to be printed. Thus the gloss quality calibrator may select different gloss control parameters for different colors.

Additionally or alternatively the example gloss quality calibrator of may compute an aggregate or average gloss quality across or for a plurality of portions . Such aggregate gloss qualities may for example represent the gloss quality of a particular print parameter combination across a plurality of colors. For example an aggregate gloss quality may be computed across the left topmost portions of all sub images to obtain the aggregate gloss quality for the print parameter combination associated with the left topmost portions . The example gloss quality calibrator may use aggregate gloss qualities to select a single or small number of gloss control parameter combinations that may be used for all or a large number of colors. An example aggregate gloss quality AGQ value is mathematically expressed as AGQ 100 0.3460 0.2428 DOI 0.0068 0.0028 EQN 2 where is the mean of the measured gloss values is the standard deviation of the measured gloss values DOIis the mean of DOI values computed using EQN 1 .

The example gloss quality calibrator of saves the selected print control parameter combination s in the example gloss control table . As described below in connection with the example print engine uses the gloss control table together with color map to control the gloss quality of the printed images. An example manner of implementing the example gloss quality calibrator is described below in connection with . Machine accessible instructions that may be carried out using for example one or more processors to implement the example gloss quality calibrator are described below in connection with . In some examples the example gloss quality calibrator is implemented by and or within the printer . In other examples the example gloss quality calibrator is implemented by and or within a computer communicatively coupled to the printer and or by and or within a raster image processor RIP communicatively coupled to the printer and or the computer.

To store the print control parameters e.g. gloss control parameters determined by the gloss quality calibrator each of the example entries of includes a plurality of parameter fields . The parameter fields for each entry represent print control parameters for a plurality of print passes one of which is designated at reference numeral . As shown in each print pass includes an ink density field D an ink flux field F and an amount of GE field G. Each of the example ink density fields D of contain a value representing the amount of ink e.g. drops or picoliters to be applied during the pass. In some examples the values in the ink density fields D represent percentages of a total amount of ink to be applied. Each of the example ink flux fields F of contain a value representing the rate at which the amount of ink represented by the ink density field D is to be applied during the print pass. Each of the example amount of GE fields G of contain a value representing the amount of GE to be applied during the print pass.

While an example data structure that may be used to implement the example gloss control table of is illustrated in the gloss control table may be implemented using any number and or type s of other and or additional fields and or data. Further the fields and or data illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any way. For example only the last print pass may include the example amount of GE field G. Additionally or alternatively the color identifier field could be omitted and a single set of print parameters applied to all colors. Moreover the example data structure may include fields and or data in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated fields and or data. For example the example data structure of may be replicated for different combinations of ink type and media type to enable each ink type media type combination to have its own set s of gloss control parameters.

Returning to to allow users to interact configure and or control the example printer the example printer of includes the example user interface . Among other capabilities the example user interface may enable a user to specify for example a thoroughness of gloss quality calibration e.g. high medium or low to specify which or how many colors to be tested an amount of ink that may be used during gloss quality calibration how many sets of gloss quality control parameters are to selected whether gloss quality calibration results for previous media type and or ink type combinations are to be saved and or discarded etc. In some examples the user interface is implemented in conjunction with a printer driver that a user may access via a computer communicatively coupled to the printer . Additionally or alternatively the user interface is implemented in conjunction with a display and or buttons implemented by the printer .

While an example printer has been illustrated in one or more of the interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. For example the scan module the reflection measurements and or the gloss quality calibrator may be implemented separately from or external to the printer . Further the example print engine the example color map the example gloss control table the example scan module the example reflection measurements database the example gloss quality calibrator the example user interface the example print parameter combinations database and or more generally the example printer of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example print engine the example color map the example gloss control table the example scan module the example reflection measurements database the example gloss quality calibrator the example user interface the example print parameter combinations database and or more generally the example printer may be implemented by the example process platform P of and or one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s and or field programmable gate array s FPGA s etc. When any apparatus claim of this patent incorporating one or more of these elements is read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example print engine the example color map the example gloss control table the example scan module the example reflection measurements database the example gloss quality calibrator the example user interface the example print parameter combinations database and or more generally the example printer is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible article of manufacture such as a tangible computer readable medium storing the firmware and or software. As used herein the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals. Example tangible computer readable medium include a volatile and or non volatile memory a volatile and or non volatile memory device a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a programmable ROM PROM an electronically programmable ROM EPROM an electronically erasable PROM EEPROM an optical storage disk an optical storage device magnetic storage disk and or a magnetic storage device a cache or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information and which can be accessed by a processor a computer and or other machine having a processor such as the example processor platform P discussed below in connection with . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals. Further still the example printer may include interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices.

To compute estimate and or determine gloss quality for one or more combinations of color and or print parameter combination the example gloss quality calibrator of includes a gloss quality determiner . Using for example the mathematical expressions of EQN 1 and or EQN 2 and the haze and gloss values retrieved via the database interface the example gloss quality determiner of computes values representative of gloss quality.

To select gloss control parameters the example gloss quality calibrator of includes a parameter selector . The example parameter selector of identifies the print parameter combination s resulting in the highest gloss quality and stores the corresponding print parameter combination s in the example gloss control table as described above in connection with . As discussed above the parameter selector may select more than one print parameter combination depending on whether different colors may use different gloss control settings or whether a common set of gloss control settings are to be used for multiple or all colors. For example the parameter combination with the best gloss quality may be identified by comparing the outputs of the gloss quality determiner for corresponding colors. As described below in connection with in some examples the parameter selector of generates a combined gloss control and color map table based on color map information contained in the color map and gloss qualities computed by the example gloss quality determiner .

While an example manner of implementing the example gloss quality calibrator of has been illustrated in one or more of the interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example database interface the example gloss quality determiner the example parameter selector and or more generally the example gloss quality calibrator of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example database interface the example gloss quality determiner the example parameter selector and or more generally the example gloss quality calibrator may be implemented by the example process platform P of and or one or more circuit s programmable processor s ASIC s PLD s FPLD s and or FPGA s etc. When any apparatus claim of this patent incorporating one or more of these elements is read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example database interface the example gloss quality determiner the example parameter selector and or more generally the example gloss quality calibrator are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible article of manufacture such as a tangible computer readable medium storing the firmware and or software. Further still the example gloss quality calibrator may include interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices.

The color map fields for each example entry of represents a plurality of inks to be mixed and or applied to a achieve a particular color. Accordingly the color map fields are split into sets one of which is designated at reference corresponding to different ink colors. As shown in each set of information includes an ink identifier field I and an ink amount field A. Each of the example ink identifier fields I of contains a value and or symbol that uniquely represents and or identifies one of a plurality of inks that may be used by the printer . Each of the example ink amount fields A of contains a value that represents an amount e.g. drops picoliters etc. of the corresponding ink I to be applied to obtain the associated color .

To use the example data structure of to print a particular color the example print engine identifies the entry i.e. row of the data structure corresponding to that color by comparing the color s RGB identifier to the color identifier fields . The print engine reads and or obtains from the identified entry the amounts of each color ink from the color map fields and allocates the ink to the different printing passes according to the ink density fields D. The allocated amounts of each ink are then applied during each pass at the rate specified in the ink flux fields F to achieve the ink mixture required to achieve the desired print color and to achieve the desired gloss quality.

Compared to the example of in the example data structure of the amounts of each ink color required to achieve a desired color have been pre allocated to printing passes according to selected gloss control parameters. The example data structure of includes a plurality of entries for respective ones of a plurality of colors. To identify a color each of the example entries of includes the example color identifier field described above in connection with .

Each of the example entries of includes control information for each of a plurality of print passes one of which is designated at reference numeral . As shown in each set of the example control information includes print control information for each of a plurality of inks one of which is designated at reference numeral . Each set of the example print control information of includes the example ink identifier field I the example ink density field D and the example ink flux field F described above in connection with .

To use the example data structure of to print a particular color the example print engine identifies the entry e.g. row of the data structure corresponding to that color by comparing the color s RGB identifier to the color identifier fields . For each printing pass the print engine reads and or obtains from the identified entry the print control information for each color ink. The print engine applies the ink s according to the ink density fields D and the ink flux fields F.

Even though only a representative subset of the printer s gamut or colors may have been included in the test image the example data structures and could contain entries and respectively for each color in the printer s gamut. That is while the data structures and are being populated and or computed gloss control parameters selected for the various test colors may be interpolated to determine gloss control parameters for untested colors. By pre populating comprehensive data structures and the computational burden on the print engine during printing may be reduced. The data structures and could also be pre populated via for example a firmware upgrade.

While example data structures and that may be used to implement a combined color map and gloss control table are illustrated in respectively a print control table may be implemented using any number and or type s of other and or additional fields and or data. Further the fields and or data illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any way. For example only the last print pass may include the amount of GE field G and or each ink applied during a printing pass may be applied using the same ink flux. Moreover the example data structures and may include fields and or data in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated fields and or data. For example the example data structures and of may be replicated for different combinations of ink type and media type to enable each ink type media type combination to have its own set s of color and gloss control parameters.

The example machine accessible instructions of allow each tested color to result in the selection of different gloss control parameters. However based on the descriptions presented above in connection with it should be apparent how the example machine accessible instructions of could be modified to select a set of gloss control parameters applicable for more than one color. The example machine accessible instructions of begin with the selection of a set of colors and print parameter combinations to be tested block . As described above the set of representative colors and print parameters combinations may be pre determined and stored in the combinations database dynamically determined by the gloss quality calibrator and or received from a user via the example user interface .

The example print engine prints the gloss quality test image based on the selected set of test colors and print parameter combinations block . The example scan module measure the gloss and haze of each sub image portion of the test image block . In some examples the scan module may be calibrated prior to measuring the gloss and haze of each of the sub image portions . For example the scan module may be calibrated by setting a baseline white point on the media across the test area and or in conjunction with some known test pattern that is inserted into the printer and used the calibrate the scan module and or the printer . The calibration could be done either in the field and or at the factory.

Starting with a first test color block the example gloss quality determiner computes the DOI for each portion associated with the first test color using for example EQN 1 block . The example parameter selector compares the computed DOI values to identify the print parameter combination resulting in a preferred gloss quality block . The example parameter selector stores the selected print parameter combination in the gloss control table block . Additionally or alternatively the parameter selector updates a combined color map and gloss control table such as the example data structure of .

If there are more test colors to analyze block control returns to block to select the next test color. If there are no more test colors to analyze block control exits from the example machine accessible instructions of .

The example machine accessible instructions of may be executed to implement the example print engine of . The example machine accessible instructions of begin when the example print engine receives a command or instruction or determines that an identified color is to be printed. The example print engine queries the example color map to determine the quantities of each ink to achieve the identified color block . If the identified color is not represented in the gloss control table block the print engine identifies one or more test colors that are near the identified color in the printer s color gamut block . The gloss control parameters for the identified test colors are interpolated to obtain or compute for each print pass the gloss control parameters D F and G for the identified color block . The quantities of ink obtained at block are allocated to the print passes based on the computed ink density values D block . The print engine prints the allocated ink amounts based on the computed ink flux F values and amounts of GE G values block . Control then exits from the example machine accessible instructions of .

Returning to block if the identified color is represented in the gloss control table block the print engine queries the gloss control table to obtain the gloss control parameters associated with the identified color block . Control proceeds to block to print the identified color.

The processor platform P of the example of includes at least one programmable processor P. The processor P executes coded instructions P and or P present in main memory of the processor P e.g. within a RAM P and or a ROM P . The processor P may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor P may execute among other things the example machine accessible instructions of to control gloss quality of a printed image as described herein. Thus the coded instructions P P may include the instructions of and or .

The processor P is in communication with the main memory including a ROM P and or the RAM P via a bus P. The RAM P may be implemented by dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory P and the memory P may be controlled by a memory controller. The example memory P may be used to for example implement the example color map the example gloss control table the example reflections measurement database the example print parameter combinations database of and or the example data structures of and .

The processor platform P also includes an interface circuit P. Any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc may implement the interface circuit P. One or more input devices P and one or more output devices P are connected to the interface circuit P. The example input and output devices P and P may be used for example to implement the example scan module of .

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

