---

title: Transformation of extensible markup language documents for web services customization
abstract: A system is provided comprising at least one processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory that, when executed, receives a first request from a client device for access to a first web service and accesses a policy associated with the first web service. The system also selects a second plurality of data elements from a first plurality of data elements based on the first request and based on the policy wherein the second plurality of data elements is associated with the first web service. The system also provides the second plurality of data elements to the client device and receives a second request from the client device for a first set of data values associated with the second plurality of data elements. The system also authenticates the second request and provides the first set of data values in response to the second request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08931036&OS=08931036&RS=08931036
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08931036
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
A web service is a software component that may make services available over the internet. Web services may use a standardized extensible markup language XML messaging system that is used to encode communications to a web service. Web services provide a standard means of interoperating between different software applications running on a variety of platforms and or frameworks. Web Services are self contained modular distributed dynamic applications. Web services typically provide application programming interfaces API or a defined set of hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request messages along with a definition of the structure of response messages that are accessed and executed on a remote system hosting the requested services. Web services may manipulate extensible markup language XML representations of web resources provided by web servers. Data elements may be provided by web services and may be described by schema that provide specifications for the use and representation of the data elements in various applications. Web services may employ reusable application components and may promote exchange of data between different applications and different computing platforms. Web services may help to solve interoperability problems by giving different applications various means to link their data.

In an embodiment a schema filtering system is provided. The system comprises at least one processor a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor and receives a first request from a client device for access to a first web service. The system also accesses a policy associated with the first web service. The system also selects a second plurality of data elements from a first plurality of data elements based on the first request and based on the policy wherein the second plurality of data elements is associated with the first web service. The system also provides the second plurality of data elements to the client device and receives a second request from the client device for a first set of data values associated with the second plurality of data elements. The system also authenticates the second request and provides the first set of data values in response to the second request.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method is provided. The method comprises a filtering server receiving a request for access to at least one of a plurality of web services wherein the plurality of web services are associated with a first plurality of data elements. The method also comprises the filtering server accessing a filtering rule associated with a policy the policy describing access to the first plurality of data elements. The method also comprises the filtering server applying the filtering rule to filter a second plurality of data elements from the first plurality of data elements the second plurality of data elements associated with the at least one web service. The method also comprises the filtering server providing the second plurality of data elements in response to the request the second plurality of data elements provided in a schema definition.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method is provided. The method comprises a filtering server receiving a request for data values associated with data elements described in a first schema definition wherein the first schema definition is one of included in the request and referenced in the request. The method also comprises the filtering server authenticating the request wherein authentication comprises processing at least one of the privileges and access rights of the requester of the data values. The method also comprises the filtering server validating the first schema definition wherein validation comprises determining that the first schema definition is in compliance with a second schema definition previously provided under a policy. The method also comprises the filtering server providing the data values requested in the first message.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a system and methods that permit an organization to provide data elements to customers in customized schema definitions for web services. The data elements are filtered from a master file of data elements in accordance with policies regarding authorized access to the data elements. The customized schema definition provided to the customer may be compliant with the web service definition language WSDL . The customer may use the schema definition to create various electronic documents for use in periodically requesting data values associated with the data elements described in the schema definition. The organization may provide an interface promoting exchange of transmissions with the customer related to the contracted web services wherein the transmissions reference the schema definition and are based on the simple object access protocol SOAP .

A large organization for example a telecommunications service provider may selectively provide web services to a plurality of internal and external customers. The customer receiving access to a web service may initially involve the customer being provided a schema definition describing the data elements the customer may need for the web service. Constructing the schema definition for the customer may initially include accessing stores of data elements and schema parameters broader than are needed to provide the individually requested web services. An encompassing or robust application programming interface API associated with the organization s web services may expose a volume of information and associated level of detail beyond a web service customer s needs or access privileges. The present disclosure teaches the application of policies using the extensible stylesheet language transformations XSLT language to transform a large body of data elements and associated schema parameters to a more limited and confined group aligned with the customer s needs as well as privilege level. The limited group of data elements is provided to the customer in a schema definition. The schema definition permits the customer to access needed data values associated with the data elements described but prevents the customer from accessing other data elements and values to which the customer is not permitted access or may not need.

The present disclosure teaches the effective filtering of data elements and schema parameters described in a broad or encompassing application programming interface API associated with a plurality of web services. The filtering may be described by at least one policy applicable to the requested web service and may be specific to a particular customer or segment of customers. The policy is applied by an extensible stylesheet language transformations XSLT language script or routine designated by the policy. The script or routine transforms a master document containing the organization s large population of data elements and schema details to a more confined document containing fewer and more defined data elements. The master document is effectively filtered or transformed to the limited and customized schema definition for the customer s periodic use. Thereafter when the customer may periodically request data values associated with its contracted web service the schema definition contained in or referenced by the customer s various simple object access protocol SOAP documents may be validated by the organization. The validation may assure that the schema definition describing data elements and their parameters as requested in the customer s simple object access protocol SOAP documents complies with the schema description provided earlier to the customer. This protects the integrity of the organization s data elements and the confidentiality of its various data stores.

Turning now to a system of dynamic schema filtering is provided. The system comprises a filtering server a filtering application a telecommunications service provider a policies database an elements database a values database a third party provider client devices and a network .

The filtering server is a computer system. Computer systems are described in detail hereinafter. The filtering application executes on the filtering server and receives requests for web services from client devices . The filtering application may consult at least one policy stored in the policies database that may permit the client device to be provided data elements to access the desired web service. When permitted by the policy the filtering application may apply a filtering rule to a large or encompassing body of data elements and their associated schema attributes. The filtering rule effectively filters data elements out of the large body of data elements and transforms the large body of data elements to a limited group of data elements directed to the needs of the web services customer and in compliance with security policies of the provider of the web services. The filtering out of the data elements that are off limits to the client device under the policy yields the remaining set of data elements . The client device may be authorized to view and use the remaining set of data elements to request data values when accessing web services. The remaining set of data elements may be provided in a schema definition published to the client device that may be compliant with the web service definition language WSDL . The published schema definition designates and describes the data elements that the client device is authorized to access when accessing a web service. The published schema definition contains a description of the data elements that the client device may be provided and may include limitations on how the data elements are to be used for example the order in which they may be presented in a document. The description of the data elements in the schema definition may comprise a name of data element such as customer name or account number the data type of the data element field length and other attributes.

The client device may then periodically request data values associated with the data elements included in the schema definition it has been granted. When the client device requests data values under the schema definition the client device may include the schema definition or a reference to it in its request. As with the schema definition when it was originally received the schema definition when the client device furnishes it with its request for data values may be compliant with the web service definition language WSDL . The client device may build its own business or other applications using the schema definition . The business applications may contain software code that references the schema definition and causes data values associated with the data elements described in the schema definition to be accessed from the provider of web services. The client device may construct a plurality of electronic documents containing all or a portion of the schema definition wherein the documents are compliant with the web service definition language WSDL . The client device may then use the simple object access protocol SOAP to exchange these documents with a provider of web services to request data values associated with the data elements described in the schema definition as well as conduct other web services transactions.

The present disclosure teaches that the data elements their supporting schema attributes and the data values associated with data elements provided by the schema definition may be confidential information. Access to a broad store of data elements and associated schema information for example the elements database may be protected by a plurality of policies . The policies may be applied to individual customers or other parties using the client devices to request access to data elements associated schema information and their data values . In an embodiment a single policy may be applied to a group or class of requesting parties. In another embodiment a custom policy may be developed and applied to an individual customer or other party that may have specialized needs for web services. The filtering application or another component may request the client device to authenticate when it originally requests the web services that results in the creation of a new filtering rule . The client device may also be requested to authenticate when accessing an existing filtering rule based on the policy . The client device may also be requested to authenticate when it provides a reference to a previously received schema definition while requesting data values associated with data elements provided in the schema definition .

The present disclosure teaches the filtering or transformation of a large or encompassing web service definition language WSDL document associated with the elements database containing a broad selection of data elements and supporting schema information to initially produce the schema definition for the third party provider or internal party using the client device . The transformation is performed based on the filtering rule applying a script or routine using the extensible stylesheet language transformations XSLT language. The filtering rule conforms to the policy applied by the web services provider to the third party provider . Once the schema definition is produced and provided to the third party provider the schema definition and its components may be used repeatedly by the third party provider to request data values associated with data elements defined in the schema definition as well as to perform other actions related to the accessed web services.

A large organization such as the telecommunications service provider may be a web services provider and may maintain a voluminous and valuable store of information about customers. The telecommunications service provider may be a provider of various wireless voice and data services to a plurality of different types of customers under various subscription arrangements. The records of the telecommunications service provider may contain information such as customer names addresses account numbers social security numbers and credit histories. Because of some of the subscription arrangements the telecommunications service provider has with its customers records on file may also include additional information such as the names of the family members their ages and other information. Over extended relationships with various customers the telecommunications service provider may accumulate and store numerous items of information about customers suppliers distributors and others. While this information may be treated as confidential to the public the telecommunications service provider may have the legal right to use this information in its business operations for example the providing of web services and may selectively release the information to some external and internal parties.

The telecommunications service provider may accumulate the various categorizations of customer information and other information in the elements database and may organize the data in categories that may be tagged and accessed for various purposes. The data may be categorized stored and manipulated using schema described by the extensible markup language XML . The telecommunications service provider may make the customer information available under business arrangements that provide the data using web services. The web services may be a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a network. The interactions described herein may be between the telecommunications service provider and one of its distributors or other customers for example the third party provider that may request the information under a contractual arrangement. The interactions described may also take place between the telecommunications service provider and an internal customer for example the user of the client device . The web services may be made accessible via an interface described in a processable format that may be the schema definition and may be compliant with the web services description language WSDL . The client device that may be associated with the third party provider interacts with the web service in a manner prescribed by the web service and the schema definition in messages that use the simple object access protocol SOAP . The messages may be transmitted using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP with an extensible markup language XML serialization in conjunction with other web related standards. Web services are typically accessed by a requesting component for example the client device accessing an application programming interface API made available by the provider of the web service for example the telecommunications services provider . The application programming interface API may be associated with one or more documents compliant with the web service definition language WSDL that describe a broad plurality of data elements and supporting schema parameters. The document may be the extensible markup language XML description of a broad collection of data elements and supporting schema information that the telecommunications service provider may not wish to be wholly accessible by typical web services customers.

The telecommunications service provider may use an extensible markup language XML schema associated with the application programming interface API to describe representations of data elements that make up its large storehouse of customer or other information. A data element may be customer name and a schema for the customer name data element may comprise attributes such as first name middle initial and last name. Additional attributes of customer name may comprise data type and field length of data element such as twenty alphabetic characters. A data element is the description of the type of data the data element contains such as customer name. An associated schema attribute for the data element may describe the conditions requirements or limitations under which the data element is used in an extensible markup language XML document for example a document compliant with the web service definition language WSDL that is used for transacting web services wherein transmissions take place using the simple object access protocol SOAP .

The telecommunications service provider maintains a plurality of data elements and supporting schema attributes in the elements database . The telecommunications service provider selects one particular instance of schema attribute to describe the customer data element in one usage situation and may use a different instance of schema attribute to describe the same customer data element in a different usage situation. Given business arrangements with two different customers under separate contracts the telecommunications service provider may present the same customer data element in different manners for example one customer name including middle initial and the other customer name not including middle initial. The data elements for example customer name customer address and customer telephone number and the schema attributes the parameters defining the allowed presentation of the data elements are provided together in the schema definition .

The telecommunications service provider makes its stored data available via web services under a plurality of business arrangements. The telecommunications service provider may contract out some of its service offerings to third party providers that need some of the stored data to perform the services. For example the telecommunications service provider may contract out its services associated with a family locator service offered as an additional paid feature under subscription arrangements for wireless voice and data services. The locator service enables a parent using a mobile device under subscription with the telecommunications service provider to determine the physical location of a child also using a mobile device. While the locator service is made part of the overall wireless services offering of the telecommunications service provider the service may be performed by the third party provider . To provide this service to the telecommunications service provider under a contractual arrangement the third party provider requests certain information from the telecommunications service provider related to subscription accounts. This information may be maintained confidentially by the telecommunications service provider . The third party provider to provide the locator service may need the telephone numbers or other identifying information for the mobile devices used by the parent and the child but likely does not need other information for example the social security number of the parent. The telecommunications service provider under its contract with the third party provider makes available on a continuing basis some but not all information about selected customers. In addition from one month to the next for example the data elements for customers that the telecommunications service provider makes available to the third party provider may change as well as the listings of the customers themselves.

The third party provider obtains the data elements and their data values by accessing a web service from the telecommunications service provider . The third party provider does this by accessing an application programming interface API made available by the telecommunications service provider . In an embodiment the telecommunications service provider makes many or all of its data elements and supporting schema information accessible via one or a few application programming interfaces API . The telecommunications service provider may find it costly unwieldy or risky from a security perspective to maintain and make available a large plurality of application programming interfaces API each associated with various data elements . Because a single large application programming interface API for example may make available most or all of the data elements representing most or all of the customer data of the telecommunications service provider the telecommunications service provider likely does not want to make this information accessible to the third party provider or others without a specific need to know the information. The telecommunications service provider potentially exposes itself to legal liability by not carefully guarding its customer information.

The present disclosure teaches the use of policies by the telecommunications service provider to filter from the elements database or file of data elements just the data elements needed by the third party provider or other requester to access the desired web service. The process taught herein applies at least one filtering rule to a first plurality of data elements wherein the first plurality comprises many or all of the data elements the telecommunications service provider may make available for all of its web services. The filtering rule causes data elements that the third party provider is either not authorized to access or does not need to access to be separated from the data elements that the third party provider has contracted for in its arrangement with the telecommunications service provider . The data elements not needed by the third party provider are filtered out of the full group of data elements leaving behind the data elements needed by the third party provider for its business application.

The telecommunications service provider may maintain a plurality of policies in the policies database . The policy may apply to a plurality of third party providers with similar needs for data elements due to similarities in their business needs or due to general confidentiality policies of the telecommunications service provider . In an embodiment the telecommunications service provider develops a single policy for an individual third party provider if this is economically justified and or if the needs of the third party provider are highly specialized. The policy is applied in the form of the filtering rule that may be an application or routine created using the extensible stylesheet language transformations XSLT language. Each policy may be associated with an individual filtering rule or in some cases an individual policy may be associated with several filtering rules . The extensible stylesheet language transformations XSLT language may be used for the transformation of extensible markup language XML documents. The original document is not changed rather a new document is created based on the content of the original document and the application of the filtering rule . The present disclosure teaches that the large or master document or elements database that may contain most or all of the data elements of the telecommunications service provider may be subjected to the filtering rule associated with the policy that is applied to the third party provider . The master document or content listing of the elements database that may be compliant with the web service definition language WSDL is not altered by the process but a new document is created from the application of the filtering rule . The new document that may also be compliant with web service definition language WSDL may contain the data elements needed by the third party provider to access web services and when accompanied by schema attributes comprises the schema definition that the third party provider is provided and may use in accessing data values in connection with accessing web services.

The schema definition may comprise the contracted arrangement deliverable between the telecommunications service provider and the third party provider or other entity accessing the at least one web service. The schema definition comprises a web service definition language WSDL compliant description of data elements and their supporting schema attributes. As discussed a data element may be customer name and schema attributes may include data type for example alphanumeric string data field length and syntactical attributes such as a specification that the first letter of the customer name be presented in upper case. When the data element is primarily numeric for example a telephone number or a balance owing on an account the data type may be integer or floating point. A syntactical attribute may specify that the data element is required or optional. The schema definition describes and provides details for each of the data elements which the client device associated with the third party provider is allowed to access and to request associated data values .

The third party provider may use the received schema definition to construct electronic documents for use in periodically requesting data values associated with the data elements described in the schema definition . The electronic documents present the data elements in the manner described in the schema definition complying with the web service definition language WSDL and transmitted using the simple object access protocol SOAP . In its various accesses of web services with the telecommunications service provider the third party provider may exchange a plurality of electronic documents that are compliant with the web service definition language WSDL and transmitted using simple object access protocol SOAP . The third party provider may use the schema definition to create bindings with development languages such as C and JAVA to develop application code that the third party provider uses in its business. The third party provider may use commercially available software tools to create these language bindings. For example such a commercially available tool may be accessed by activating a uniform resource locator URL that may contact a server associated with the telecommunications service provider and may designate a web service definition language WSDL compliant file indicating the schema definition for the third party provider . The commercially available tool may activate the uniform resource locator URL provide the schema definition and authentication and generate the application code desired by the third party provider using the language bindings the data elements and the schema attributes described in the schema definition . This process may promote the third party provider to create a plurality of simple object access protocol SOAP documents that it may use in its business including documents that access data values associated with data elements described in the schema definition .

The third party provider may for example periodically invoice the telecommunications service provider or another entity for services performed in connection with the family locator service it provides under contract with the telecommunications service provider . The third party provider may need the account numbers for the wireless customers of the telecommunications service provider for whom the third party provider performed family locator services in the previous thirty day period for example. The third party provider may provide a previously created electronic document for transmission using the simple object access protocol SOAP to the telecommunications service provider . The document may be compliant with the web service definition language WSDL and may designate the account number data element and additional indication or instruction requesting account number data values for only those customers that accessed family locator services in the previous thirty days. The document may contain the schema definition itself or may contain a reference to it.

When the telecommunications service provider receives the request from the third party provider in the form of a simple object access protocol SOAP document it may perform authentication and validation of the request. Authentication may comprise determining the access rights and privileges of the client device associated with the third party provider furnishing the request. These steps may comprise applying authentication authorization and accounting AAA protocol procedures. For the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP two way secure sockets layer SSL client authentication may be invoked that involve the passage of X.509 client certificates. In an embodiment authentication of requests for data values wherein a previously provided schema definition is included in or referenced by the request may be completed by a component other than the filtering server .

Validation may involve comparing the schema definition included in or referenced by the incoming simple object access protocol SOAP document from the third party provider with records retained by the telecommunications service provider . In an embodiment validation may involve applying the filtering rule that was originally applied when the third party provider first requested web services and the schema definition was created. Validation may assure for the telecommunications service provider that the data elements and associated schema attributes being requested by the third party provider in its electronic document delivered in a simple object access protocol SOAP transmission are in compliance with the schema definition originally approved and provided under the policy and its associated filtering rule .

In an embodiment the policy and by connection its associated filtering rule change subsequent to the last time the third party provider submitted a simple object access protocol SOAP document or other request for data values . Validation comprises reexamining the policy upon receipt of some or every request for data values to assure that the policy has not changed in the interim such that the third party provider is no longer permitted to request data values or is required to do so in a modified manner. Changes to the policy may not be specific to the third party provider and instead affect a plurality of or all customers of the telecommunications service provider depending on the nature of events associated with the change to the policy . In an embodiment the policy is reviewed on a periodic basis and applied to some or all customers of the telecommunications service provider . When changes to the policy or to the status of the third party provider occur such that the rights or privileges of the third party provider to access data values have been altered suspended or revoked the telecommunications service provider optionally notifies the third party provider . The telecommunications service provider provides this notice in advance of the third party provider submitting requests for data values as the third party provider is in an embodiment a valued customer of the telecommunications service provider .

If applicable the telecommunications service provider furnishes advice to the third party provider regarding addressing one or more problems associated with the noncompliance with the policy by the third party provider . In an embodiment resolution of the problem entails building a new schema definition for the client devices respectively. This process potentially involves creating an entirely new filtering rule depending on the nature and magnitude of the change in policy or change in status of the third party provider . If the change in policy or status of the third party provider is not comprehensive resolution of the problem entails making one or several minor adjustments to the schema definition providing the adjusted schema definition to the third party provider and examining the simple object access protocol SOAP document of the third party provider when the third party provider subsequently requests data values to assure that the adjustments to the schema definition have been provided for in the simple object access protocol SOAP document.

In an embodiment changes to the policies respective filtering rules and the status of the third party provider do not occur and validation instead detects other problems. For example validation detects of one or more procedural or syntactical error conditions that are resolved before the request by the third party provider for data values or other items is fulfilled. The simple object access protocol SOAP document submitted by the third party provider potentially contains syntax errors or requests a data value associated with a data element that does not exist or has been deleted or changed in some manner. In this event an error message or other message is provided to the third party provider and the third party provider corrects its requesting simple object access protocol SOAP document and resubmits it.

Validation may also provide assurance to the third party provider that the data values and associated information it may be receiving in return for its request adhere closely to the schema definition . Integrity of returned data values from the telecommunications service provider may be desired by the third party provider because the third party provider is using the data values in its electronic simple object access protocol SOAP documents that it may use in commercial activities with its own customers or other parties not connected with the telecommunications service provider . The validation allows the third party provider to rely on the telecommunications service provider to provide the correct data values each time a request for data values and supporting information is furnished. The validated integrity of the schema definition protects both the third party provider and the telecommunications service provider .

The present disclosure has characterized a requester and user of the schema definition for web services as the third party provider that may be an entity separate from the telecommunications service provider as described in the example depicting the provider of family locator services under contract with the telecommunications service provider . The third party provider needed only certain defined data elements from the telecommunications service provider and the present disclosure teaches the application by the filtering application of policies and their associated filtering rules to transform a large body of data elements and associated schema parameters to the limited schema definition needed by the third party provider .

In an embodiment the third party provider may enter into an arrangement with the telecommunications service provider or other provider of web services that may be characterized as e Bonding. E Bonding may comprise direct communication with a customized software interface provided by the telecommunications service provider . The interface may enable the internal systems of the third party provider to generate service orders order status checks trouble reporting and inventory management transactions using all or portions of the previously received schema definition and submitted as web service definition language WSDL compliant documents. These documents may be transmitted directly using simple object access protocol SOAP into the proprietary systems of the telecommunications service provider for example the filtering server . This example of the use of the system and methods taught by the present disclosure may promote cost reduction for third party provider by reducing manual data entry and may expedite turnaround of data and service requests fulfilled by the telecommunications service provider .

In an embodiment the party requesting web services that results in the creation of the schema definition may be internal to the telecommunications service provider for example an internal department that does not need full access to all data elements and their associated data values . For privacy and security reasons the telecommunications service provider may wish to limit the accessibility and visibility of customer and other data even to internal users. The client device may be used by an internal department or function within the telecommunications service provider and may develop an application that needs to call an application programming interface API to access web services. In an embodiment the filtering application may provide an integration layer between two internal applications. The present disclosure teaches that the filtering application may allow a plurality of application programming interfaces API to provide a similar look format and standards without undergoing costly changes that may additionally present security challenges.

While the provider of web services has been described herein as the telecommunications service provider a plurality of types of organizations may be providers of web services. Such organizations may provide data elements and associated data values and may own or control the filtering server or access the capabilities of the filtering server under contract. The provider of web services may be a utility a transportation company a retailer or an industrial company. The provider of web services may be a governmental entity a non profit organization or a university or other educational provider.

The client device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. The client device may be a portable electronic device for example a mobile telephone a media player or a personal digital assistant PDA . While the client device is depicted in as being inside the telecommunications service provider because it has been described as being associated with an internal user employed by the telecommunications service provider in an embodiment the client device may be used by a contract worker to the telecommunications service provider .

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination.

In an embodiment a web services architecture based on the representational state transfer REST style of software architecture may use the system and methods taught herein to provide web services to the third party provider the client device or another requester of web services. The representational state transfer REST may use the web service definition language WSDL to describe simple object access protocol SOAP messaging using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The representational state transfer REST may alternatively be implemented as an abstraction on top of the simple object access protocol SOAP or may be created without using the simple object access protocol SOAP .

Turning now to a method is provided. Beginning at block a filtering server receives a request for access to at least one of a plurality of web services wherein the plurality of web services are associated with a first plurality of data elements. At block the filtering server accesses a filtering rule associated with a policy the policy describing access to the first plurality of data elements.

At block the filtering server applies the filtering rule to filter a second plurality of data elements from the first plurality of data elements the second plurality of data elements associated with the at least one web service. At block the filtering server provides the second plurality of data elements in response to the request the second plurality of data elements provided in a schema definition.

Turning now to a method is provided. Beginning at block a filtering server receives a request for data values associated with data elements described in a first schema definition wherein the first schema definition is one of included in the request and referenced in the request. At block the filtering server authenticates the request wherein authentication comprises processing at least one of the privileges and access rights of the requester of the data values.

At block the filtering server validates the first schema definition wherein validation comprises determining that the first schema definition is in compliance with a second schema definition previously provided under a policy. At block the filtering server provides the data values requested in the first message.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts a baseband signal and or a signal embodied in a carrier wave may be referred to as a transitory signal. In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

