---

title: Drill to flow mini core
abstract: A core for forming a cooling microcircuit has at least one row of metering/tripping features configured to form at least one row of protrusions in the cooling microcircuit, a plurality of teardrop features configured to form a plurality of fluid passageways in the cooling microcircuit, and a terminal edge. The plurality of teardrop features includes a central teardrop feature having a trailing edge which is spaced from the terminal edge and a first teardrop feature located on a first side of and spaced from the central teardrop feature. The first teardrop feature has a longitudinal axis and is non-symmetrical about the longitudinal axis. A process of using the core and a turbine engine component formed thereby are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08944141&OS=08944141&RS=08944141
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08944141
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the Department of the Navy.

The present disclosure relates to a core which may be used to form a cooling microcircuit in an airfoil portion of a turbine engine component which core is configured to allow the formation of a central fluid outlet which has a converging diverging configuration and to a process of utilizing the core.

The fabrication of certain turbine engine components requires the use of a thin core. The thin core may be placed between a ceramic core which is used to form a central cooling fluid passageway in an airfoil portion of the turbine engine component and a region where an external wall of the airfoil portion will be created. The use of such a core creates a cooling circuit configuration which allows for film cooling. The thin cores can be made of either ceramic or a refractory metal material.

While highly useful there exists the reality that the cores are a product of the dies used to fabricate them. Initially dies are made with a theorized wear factor. For example the cores are artificially made small in order to account for the fact that as the rough material forming the core is injected into the die time and again the cores would effectively grow. Often this fluctuation is not as expected and the dies need to be replaced sooner to prevent the formation of cores which do not meet desired specifications. Further as the dies wear and cores which do not meet the specifications are formed it becomes difficult to control the outflow from the turbine engine component whose cooling microcircuit s are formed using the core.

In accordance with the instant disclosure there is provided a core for forming a cooling microcircuit which broadly comprises at least one row of metering tripping features configured to form at least one row of protrusions in said cooling microcircuit a plurality of teardrop features configured to form a plurality of fluid passageways in said cooling microcircuit a terminal edge said plurality of teardrop features including a central teardrop feature having a trailing edge which is spaced from said terminal edge and said plurality of teardrop features including a first teardrop feature located on a first side of and spaced from said central teardrop feature said first teardrop feature having a longitudinal axis and being non symmetrical about said longitudinal axis.

Further there is provided a process for providing cooling microcircuits in an airfoil portion of a turbine engine component comprising the steps of positioning at least one first core having at least one row of metering tripping features configured to form at least one row of protrusions in said cooling microcircuit and a plurality of teardrop features configured to form a plurality of fluid passageways in said cooling microcircuit said plurality of teardrop features including a central teardrop feature having a trailing edge a first teardrop feature located on a first side of and spaced from said central teardrop feature said first teardrop feature having a longitudinal axis and being non symmetrical about said longitudinal axis and a second teardrop feature located on a second side of and spaced from said central teardrop feature said second teardrop feature having a longitudinal axis and being non symmetrical about said longitudinal axis joining said at least one core to at least one ceramic core forming said turbine engine component removing said at least one core to form a cooling microcircuit having a plurality of fluid outlets and drilling a central portion of said cooling microcircuit so as to form a cooling fluid outlet having a converging diverging configuration.

Also there is provided a turbine engine component having an airfoil portion and at least one cooling microcircuit located within a wall of said airfoil portion each said cooling microcircuit having a plurality of fluid outlets with a central one of said fluid outlets having a converging diverging configuration.

Other details of the drill to flow mini core described herein are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.

Referring now to there is shown one of the cores to be used for forming a cooling circuit within the walls of the airfoil portion of the turbine engine component. The core has an array of metering tripping features in the form of rows of shaped slots. The metering tripping features form a plurality of protrusions in the cooling microcircuit which protrusions create turbulence in the cooling air flow.

The core further includes a plurality of teardrop features also in the form of slots having a teardrop or near teardrop shape. Each of the teardrop features has a longitudinal axis and is symmetrical about the longitudinal axis . Further each of the teardrop features has a trailing edge which ends a distance from a line or terminal edge where the core meets an airfoil wall. Each of the teardrop features has a converging wall portion . The space between the teardrop features forms a series of outlet passages having diverging walls which outlet passages terminate in a series of film cooling holes see .

The core further has a portion which forms entrances for allowing the cooling fluid to enter the cooling microcircuit. The core has a portion which forms a plenum area between the entrance forming portion and the metering tripping features .

When the part is manufactured cooling air flow from the main body core enters through a number of entrances formed by the portion into the plenum area . The cooling air flow then passes through a series of passageways formed by protrusions created by the metering tripping features and finally through the fluid passageways formed by the teardrop features where the cooling air expands prior to exiting onto the external surface of the airfoil via film cooling holes .

Referring now to there is shown the core which is different in several respects from the core . As with core the core has inlet forming features not shown which form one or more entrances to the cooling circuit passages and a plurality of metering tripping features . As before the metering tripping features take the form of one or more rows of shaped slots for forming a plurality of protrusions. The core further has a plurality of teardrop features which have a longitudinal axis and are symmetrical about their respective longitudinal axis . The teardrop features are the outermost ones of the teardrops. As before the teardrop features have converging wall portions which form a series of diverging passageways which terminate in cooling holes see .

The core differs from the core in that it also has a central teardrop feature and two asymmetrical teardrop features adjacent to the central teardrop feature . The central teardrop feature is smaller in size than the teardrop features . It has a trailing edge which is spaced farther from the line or terminal edge than the trailing edges of the other teardrop features and . Each of the teardrop features has a longitudinal axis and is asymmetric with respect to said axis . Further each of the teardrop features has a trailing edge which is formed by either a planar surface at an angle to the longitudinal axis or an arcuate surface. The presence of the shorter central teardrop feature creates a space which is bordered by a portion of the sidewalls of the teardrop features . The sidewall portions together form a converging fluid passageway .

The presence of the space allows a final machining operation which cuts back the space to form a diverging portion to the cooling fluid outlet which enables the cooling flow to be increased as needed. For example the cooling fluid outlet may be formed using an EDM process. The farther the EDM electrode is pushed into the space the larger the exit of the cooling fluid outlet will be. One of the results of using the core is that the center of the core will have more cooling fluid flow than the sides of the core due to the presence of a cooling fluid outlet which has a converging diverging shape. The location of the throat portion in the converging diverging outlet determines the amount of fluid which will flow out of the outlet . Further given the presence of staggered cooling fluid outlets in the final part extra air will be hitting in areas where the airfoil portion can be cooling challenged.

The cores may be arrayed as shown in in a fan type configuration where each core is joined to the ceramic core s which form the central cooling fluid passageway s in the final airfoil portion.

Each of the cores and may be formed from either a ceramic material or from a refractory metal material.

Referring now to there is shown a portion of the airfoil portion of the turbine engine component having a plurality of cooling microcircuits formed within at least one of its walls. As can be seen from this figure there are two different types of cooling fluid outlet arrays formed by the cores and . The outermost array of cooling fluid holes have film cooling holes which are uniformly shaped and sized. The innermost array of cooling fluid holes have a plurality of converging diverging outlets and a plurality of outer uniformly sized and diverging cooling holes .

Referring now to to form the turbine engine component in step one forms the arrays and by positioning the cores and in a mold not shown in a desired pattern. Each of the cores and may be joined to the ceramic core s which form the central cooling passageways in the interior of the airfoil portion . In step after the cores and have been positioned in the mold the turbine engine component with the airfoil portion is formed by casting a metal or metal alloy. The casting technique which is used in step may be any suitable casting technique known in the art. In step the cast material is allowed to solidify. In step following casting and solidification of the metal or metal alloy forming the turbine engine component the cores and are removed. Removal of the cores may be carried out using any suitable process known in the art such as a chemical leaching process or a mechanical removing process. In step a suitable drilling process such as EDM is used to form the diverging portion of the converging diverging outlets . As discussed above when using an electrode in an EDM technique the further the electrode used to machine the outlet is pushed into the cast turbine engine component the larger the exit to the outlet will be.

The technique described herein for forming the converging diverging outlets is desirable because it allows one to account for tolerances which occur as dies are used and experience wear and better control the flow of the cooling fluid.

While the converging diverging outlet has been described as being at the center of the outlet array the converging diverging outlet may be offset from the center to create flow as needed.

There has been described in the instant disclosure a drill to flow mini core. While the drill to flow mini core has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof other unforeseen alternatives modifications and variations may become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. It is intended to embrace those alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims.

