---

title: Systems, methods, and apparatus for computer-assisted full medical code scheme to code scheme mapping
abstract: An example method for mapping of medical code schemes includes processing a plurality of coded concepts to determine a potential match between a code from a first code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and a code from a second code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts. The method includes assigning a probability to each potential match of a code from the first code scheme and a code from the second code scheme. The method includes generating an alphanumeric indication of the probability of each potential match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme from the plurality of coded concepts and generating a graphical representation of the plurality of coded concepts. The method includes outputting the alphanumeric indication and the graphical representation to a user and accepting user input to select a match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346804&OS=08346804&RS=08346804
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08346804
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101103
---
The present invention generally relates to healthcare terminology mapping. In particular the present invention relates to systems methods and apparatus for matching concepts between a plurality of code schemes to map concepts from one code scheme to another.

Medical terminology is voluminous fragmented and complex. Multiple standards bodies e.g. Health Level Seven HL7 World Health Organization WHO etc. make contributions to categorizing and publishing medical vocabularies e.g. Systematized Nomenclature of Human and Veterinary Medicine SNOMED International Classification of Diseases ICD Logical Observation Identifier Names and Codes LOINC etc. across multiple healthcare domains e.g. medical procedures problem lists laboratory etc. .

Most approaches to managing terminologies rely on mapping rules and use of human intervention of terminology engineers or medical coders to understand differences across source vocabularies to rationalize the organization of data via hierarchies and relationships to identify differences in granularity and to map between codes and synonyms where there is overlap. This process requires a large amount of manpower to maintain an updated vocabulary and is especially burdensome when implementing new systems in an established healthcare organization with an abundance of systems and proprietary codes and synonyms. Combined with internationalization and a desire to share data across healthcare organizations the problem quickly becomes unmanageable. For this reason many healthcare IT providers have created their own proprietary codes relationships terms and picklists which remain unintegrated with other systems and terminologies. Otherwise the human effort involved can occupy a team of humans for months to find matches between terminologies.

Certain examples provide systems methods and apparatus to provide clinical terminology services. Certain examples provide a computer implemented method for mapping of medical code schemes. The example method includes processing a plurality of coded concepts to determine a potential match between a code from a first code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and a code from a second code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts. The method also includes assigning a probability to each potential match of a code from the first code scheme and a code from the second code scheme. The method further includes generating an alphanumeric indication of the probability of each potential match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme from the plurality of coded concepts and generating a graphical representation of the plurality of coded concepts. Additionally the method includes outputting the alphanumeric indication and the graphical representation to a user and accepting user input to select a match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme.

Certain examples provide a system for mapping of medical code schemes. The example system includes a code analyzer to process a plurality of coded concepts to determine a potential match between a code from a first code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and a code from a second code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and to assign a probability to each potential match of a code from the first code scheme and a code from the second code scheme. The code analyzer is to generate an alphanumeric indication of the probability of each potential match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme from the plurality of coded concepts and to generate a graphical representation of the plurality of coded concepts. The system also includes a user interface to output the alphanumeric and the graphical representation to a user and to accept user input to select a match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme.

Certain examples provide a tangible computer readable storage medium including executable program instructions which when executed by a computer processor cause the computer to implement a medical code scheme bulk matching system. The example system includes a code analyzer to process a plurality of coded concepts to determine a potential match between a code from a first code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and a code from a second code scheme in the plurality of coded concepts and to assign a probability to each potential match of a code from the first code scheme and a code from the second code scheme. The code analyzer is to generate an alphanumeric indication of the probability of each potential match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme from the plurality of coded concepts and to generate a graphical representation of the plurality of coded concepts. The system also includes a user interface to output the alphanumeric and the graphical representation to a user and to accept user input to select a match between the first code scheme and the second code scheme.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.

Although the following discloses example methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus including among other components software executed on hardware it should be noted that such methods and apparatus are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly while the following describes example methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus.

When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation in an embodiment at least one of the elements is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware.

Certain examples facilitate creation and manipulation of an array of scores wherein each participating code scheme is represented by a dimension and each code in that scheme is a point in that scheme s dimension.

For example given two different code schemes each code in scheme represents a row and each code in scheme represents a column. A probability that code in scheme is the same as code in scheme is represented by a cell value at row and column in a code score array. By creating an M N matrix where M is a number of codes in scheme and N is a number of codes in scheme a number of visual and mathematical tools can extract meaning. As illustrated in the example coding matrix of a first coding scheme is compared to a second coding scheme based on a probability P x y that x is the same as y . Thus the matrix identifies a probability that a first code from the first coding scheme is the same as a first code from the second coding scheme a probability that a second code from the first coding scheme is the same as the first code from the second coding scheme a probability that a third code from the first coding scheme is the same as the first code from the second coding scheme etc. The probability is computed for each possible code combination between the first coding scheme and the second coding scheme . An identity matrix 

Typically results of searching for a single concept in a terminology are useable only by a human. A result set is a list of possible matches some advanced search engines also return a quantitative score. If a goal is to find results for many concepts then a single concept list SCL is contributing a single piece to the puzzle. A human must attempt to understand the big picture and manipulate all of the pieces to solve the entire puzzle. As the number of number of concepts to match increases a number of possible combinations increases exponentially as illustrated for example in . Without an artificial agent teams of humans can spend many months reducing the set of SCLs into a best fit solution.

Additionally an SCL has little or no meaning beyond the scope of its formative search. A human must formalize the SCL into a set of concept concept mappings that fit a pre defined ontology so that an inference engine can draw conclusions.

Clinical information systems typically involve a timetable of three to five years for installation. Even upgrades of both vendor systems and reference vocabularies involve many months of expensive content terminology experts.

As demonstrated by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA even when the government mandates all entities use a single standard e.g. X12 standards continually evolve and present customers with an ongoing maintenance cost. This problem has received little attention from the research community probably because they maintain their own terminologies as part of their research. Universities for example have the resources to integrate and maintain references and mappings. Research on ontologies and advanced decision support and natural language processing regularly presupposes harmonized terminologies.

A clinical system that is driven by standardized coded data can help advance analytics real time decision support and business intelligence for healthcare practitioners. In an example an approach is provided for automating a mapping between external terminologies and use of text based analysis to provide additional information and presentation of medical codes and terms by supplementing the data with localized clinical content from healthcare providers implementing the clinical system.

To aid a human user in terminology mapping e.g. confirming a computer generated match of terms a graphical indication of what is known as well as what is not known can be provided. For example an analyzer can be provided which recognizes both positive space e.g. known or likely matches and negative space e.g. uncertain matches or crowded sets of terms .

In certain examples clusters of terms data can be identified. For example a graphical representation shows the existence of macro scale concept clustering and visually distinguishes chaotic tangles from coherent one to one mappings. For example provides three graphical visualization of terms or concepts in a given data set. As shown in example distribution a high degree of variability exists in the terminology data. Example distribution demonstrates a moderate degree of variability and illustrates strong clustering around a particular term e.g. church in the given example . Example distribution exhibits a low degree of variability and slight clustering around a certain word e.g. new in the given example .

As illustrated for example in a probability distribution of probabilities of a code from a first coding scheme matching a code from a second coding scheme provide obvious results when the codes are probably the same and when the codes are probability not the same but a tangled area exists in between. Visual clustering of codes can help unravel the tangled area to understand code matches for example.

An ontology is a representation of information as a set of concepts within a domain along with relationships between the concepts. An ontology provides a shared vocabulary that can be used to model a domain. Ontologies and associated metadata provide both challenge and opportunity. A web ontology language OWL is a family of knowledge representation languages for authoring ontologies. Data described by an ontology in the OWL family is interpreted as a set of individuals and a set of property assertions that relate these individuals to each other. An ontology includes a set of axioms that place constraints on sets of individuals called classes and type s of relationships permitted between the classes. The axioms provide semantics by allowing systems to infer additional information based on the data explicitly provided.

OWL is built on an eXtensible Markup Language XML and a resource description framework RDF for example. The RDF is a family of World Wide Web Consortium W3C specifications designed as a metadata data model. The RDF can be used for conceptual description and or modeling of web resource information using a variety of syntax formats. Ontologies represented by OWL can be specialized by use e.g. SNOMED CT for example.

Using OWL a local ontology can be merged with a global ontology for example. Using a mediator framework for example a variety of different systems can communicate and utilize different types of metadata. For example an electronic medical records EMR system a version controlled file set and a knowledge and terminology management infrastructure KTMI can utilize allergy and picklist metadata. In some examples a source system provides concepts and a target system provides receptors. The target system chooses to accept or ignore concepts for example. Using concept matching and metadata more than one system can be connected to act on reported outcomes through distributed development.

Certain examples provide systems and methods to visualize and cluster related terminology concepts to facilitate faster concept mappings by users e.g. medical knowledge workers . Probabilistic matching can be used to match related terminology concepts in ontology based systems for example. Matching results can be visualized such as using a heat map to reveal clustering and or distribution of concepts and a table or matrix to provide probabilities of mapping codes terms concepts etc. from one scheme to another. For example an area of high heat e.g. represented as red in a heat map indicates a strong confidence of coherence between terms e.g. a match between terms and an area of low heat e.g. represented as blue in the heat map indicates a low confidence of correlation or matching e.g. a plurality of terms has a reasonable chance to match . In certain examples two coding schemes approximate a distribution pattern between strong confidence fading to lower confidence of matching. Such a normal probability distribution curve can be adapted to an M N matrix model.

Distributed clinical applications involve coordinated meta data. Integration efforts have focused on sharing instance data e.g. provider X treated patient Y for condition Z . Providers share this instance data with insurers using for example an X12 messaging framework and among each other using for example an HL7 messaging framework. A similar set of object models and application programming interfaces APIs can be used to share coordinate master data among participants of distributed clinical systems.

Master data object models are a negotiated super set of all known attributes. The API is divided into data sources and data targets. Data sources implement a GET method for example. Data targets implement three POST methods for example 1. Read only comparison report 2. Pessimistic insert add if doesn t already exist 3. Optimistic insert add and overwrite if already exists . The API is implemented for each transportable class in the object model in each system connector.

Having a framework permits each system to implement a single plug in style connector. Additionally plug in style tool sets can be developed agnostic of transportable class and systems involved. Tool sets can include for example 1. Insert a single instance of a single class from a source to a target 2. Report differences of a single class between a source and a target 3. Pessimistic insert all instances of all classes from a source to a target.

In an example a healthcare institution has several clinical systems for various functions. For each system to contribute data to an enterprise data store each has an internal representation of metadata such as a facility at which the system is operating . Manual configuration of each system is both resource intensive and error prone.

In another example a major system upgrade can involve an old version as a data source is the old version and a new version as a data target. In another example system state replication involves best practice settings distributed and or problem configurations simulated for debugging. In another example published third party data sets such as First Data Bank FDB and SNOMED CT can be integrated.

Computers lack the fuzzy processing that humans use every day. Data interchanges are done with precise pointers not fuzzy concepts. Standards such as HL7 describe syntax and semantics but do not address meanings of individual terms. Standards such as SNOMED CT standardize terms but most applications do not create records with those terms. In many instances such as facility identifiers it does not make sense to have a standard term. However each computer system in a federation should use common terms to share data in a meaningful way. This is a major barrier to the use of health information.

In certain examples two approaches are discussed one calls for the use of standard vocabularies while the other champions a particular integrated product. Typically content harmonization remains a manual configuration process. The reliance on standards continues even when the number of standards continues to multiply.

Systems implement business logic to handle exposure to a concept. Each instance of a system is configured. A common API can be developed including a plurality of functions such as read report add overwrite etc. Each type of content for each type of system is a discrete implementation of the common API. In certain examples agnostic toolsets are developed for specific use cases since common functions such as comparison reporting and batch loading can apply regardless of content type. By acknowledging where the variability is reusable toolsets and connectors can be provided. Implement different API functions results in different toolsets implementing different workflows. Thus a framework can be provided to manage terminology harmonization across multiple systems.

While standardized vocabularies codify clinical data entry applications that generate the clinical data rarely map to standards on a one to one basis. Some federated clinical systems exchange data using native identifiers but currently informing system X of the native identifiers in system Y is a time consuming manual process.

Existing automated comparison methods rely on transitivity relationships between common standards. E.g. C and C therefore C C. This requires C to match one and only one standard term and C to match one and only one standard term . In practice two competing processes prevent one to one mappings. First standards strive to normalize their concepts to maximize their expressivity and reuse. Second end user applications strive to de normalize their concepts to minimize the number of user interactions and chances for error. The failure of vendors to harmonize clinical semantics is a major barrier to growth in healthcare IT.

The National Library of Medicine provides the UMLS Metathesaurus MMTx service. This service accepts natural language text and returns a set of standard terms each with a score from 0 to 1000. Rather than forcing a rich concept to fit a single standard term the concept s set of standard terms constitute an encoded signature reflecting the full richness.

Certain examples provide each standard term in a single dimension. A concept s score for the term is then represented as a distance in that dimension. A concept that matches n terms is represented as a point or vector in n dimensional space. A comparison result is a distance between the two points in the combined n dimensional space.

For example a concept C maps to three terms . A concept C maps to four terms . The matching score is the distance between the two points in a five dimensional Euclidian space f .

Additionally term scores can be scaled by Inverse Frequency to help improve distance quality. Common terms such as of or good are less important than rare terms such as myocardial infarction . A term s score can be divided by its frequency to determine a frequency adjusted score.

Further term scores can be scaled by ontology hierarchical depth to help improve distance quality. Generic terms such as hypo or cardiology are less important than specific terms such as laryngopharyngeus . A term s frequency adjusted score can be multiplied by the term s depth in its ontology hierarchy to generate at the final score used in the above distance calculation. An N Dimensional Euclidean Distance formula can be represented by . . . . Thus a solution is calculated to match non standard concepts using advanced natural language processing.

Clinical concepts often have many synonyms that generic string matching algorithms cannot match. Common systems have about one thousand concepts. It takes a human between 15 minutes and an hour to resolve one concept. The algorithm can reduce that to a few seconds with high confidence. The algorithm can match presents with myocardial infarction with patient had a heart attack in real time or substantially real time for example. Using the algorithm synonyms can be identified to reduce a number of false negatives e.g. irregular period matched with menstrual irregularity . The algorithm can also lower the score when the match is semantically incorrect to reduce a number of false positives e.g. car assessment with cardio assessment . The algorithm assumes that standardization may never occur and allows individual institutions departments to tailor their content to their environment and let a computer rather than a human handle the mapping.

In certain examples an algorithm for assigning statistical probabilities favors sensitivity over specificity to identify many possible matches. Parameters of an example algorithm can be adjusted to be more or less specific and therefore more or less inclusive for example.

An M N probability matrix provides a computerized system with a framework for scoring at any of a variety of levels of granularity. An indication of a possible match between concepts is represented within the M N matrix. In certain examples a Euclidian distance formula can be applied in conjunction with the M N matrix using linear algebra e.g. the mathematics of matrices to define a transformation from one vector to another. In certain examples an M N matrix can be used for code system to code system comparison concept to concept comparison and or property to property comparison.

In an example healthcare terminology provider data is analyzed using an algorithm that ranks criteria including the granularity of a medical term e.g. simpler words have a smaller number of letters the popularity of a term e.g. how often is the term used by the organization and the relationship to similar terms informed by semantic proximity other medical publications and external dictionaries for example . This analysis results in one or more proposals of where to place the provider s data and representations of data in a controlled medical vocabulary that spans organizations. Since the provider data is mapped to standards interoperability and the use of localized terms are both possible.

Medical terminology vocabularies often include overlapping information. In an example similarities and overlapping elements between vocabularies are identified. A confidence level of the similarity between the elements can then be provided. Rather than requiring a significant amount of human resources to review each term often without regard to applicable standards some review can be automated to reduce the amount of analysis left for manual human review.

In an example a controlled medical vocabulary CMV is created for a clinical system and or clinical application that covers a variety of terms e.g. everything from problem lists to allergies to drugs . The terminology is transferred to an inbox with one or more proposed mappings using SNOMED ICD9 ICD10 LOINC Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM American College of Radiology ACR Index of Radiological Diagnoses American National Standards Institute ANSI identifiers etc. and or into a visual mapping tool where a user can see those mappings in more of a visual way to help a person developing a CMV.

A CMV is a capability of a computer based patient record CPR system. Other CPR core capabilities include clinical documentation and data capture clinical display including a clinical dashboard a clinical workflow order management including physician order entry a clinical data repository CDR clinical decision support CDS privacy support and interoperability connectivity. A CMV supports medically relevant concepts terms codes and relationships.

CMV services can be delivered using a vocabulary server that provides access to a set of CMV functions as a series of application programming interfaces APIs . This approach makes the CMV accessible to any software component in the CPR or its environment that uses such services. In many cases a set of terminologies such as SNOMED ICD 9 ICD 10 and Current Procedural Terminology Fourth Edition CPT 4 including cross maps between their respective terms is included. Using the CMV and vocabulary server vocabulary services can be provided to subsystems of a core CPR system as well as other subsystems in the CPR environment. The CMV and vocabulary server can provide information concerning a medical term or concept to an executing application and can also accept terminology updates.

Using a CMV CPR systems can understand and more intelligently process medical information while continuing to store that information in a form e.g. medical terms that permits humans to interact with the same data. In an example a user can enter a query against information in a data warehouse which has received its data from the CDR asking to retrieve cases corresponding to certain search terms. If the CMV has been used to classify the information in the data warehouse then the query should successfully retrieve all relevant cases including cases using equivalent terminology. The CMV can provide a comprehensive answer by using a search algorithm to explore its semantic network for example.

In an example limited CMV capabilities exist in a CPR system. For example CMV capabilities allow mapping terms into canonical terms generating billing codes etc. These mappings can be hard coded into applications for example. In such environments a CPR system supports generation of standard code sets such as ICD 9 and CPT 4.

In an example the CMV exists as an architecturally separate component in the CPR. The CMV can be used to explicitly manage concepts terms and relationships as well as cross mapping these concepts terms and relationships to standardized encoding schemes. Applications such as clinical decision support and clinical workflow can have a significant degree of CMV interaction. An API for a vocabulary server supports the vocabulary needs of the clinical decision support and clinical workflow as well as related applications and or components. The CMV vocabulary server combination can support tools to enable terminologies to be updated and to resolve resulting conflicts. Proposed CMV content can be compared to current CMV content establish semantic consistency in the new content and track changes made to the CMV.

In an example a vocabulary server supports interacting vocabulary needs of the CPR environment. The vocabulary server permits users to interactively explore the vocabulary s semantic network maintain local vocabulary variations incorporate new content handle versioning issues and provide real time or substantially real time responses to queries for vocabulary services. To support a full spectrum of CPR functions the CMV provides decompositional completeness . That is the CMV contains atomic representations of pre coordinated terms contained in the CMV. Thus if the CMV includes a pre coordinated term or phrase including multiple elements then the CMV includes primitive terms for each of those elements. The CMV also includes a convention or rule that describes how to use the primitive terms for each of the elements to create a post coordinated term having the identical semantic content as the pre coordinated term. A CMV that provides decompositional completeness enables applications such as medical natural language processing applications to function properly despite the existence of pre coordinated terms that differ in form from the specific terms that can be created by a CPR system user e.g. myocardial infarction versus heart attack . The CMV can also support the clinical workflow and clinical decision support capabilities of the CPR system. CMV can be used to support evidence based medicine EBM functions such as automated care guideline protocols. The CMV also includes support for manual vocabulary updates and resolution of vocabulary semantic conflicts.

In an example the CMV and vocabulary server support a full range of real time vocabulary services as well as being able to receive automated updates from vocabulary authorities. The CMV supports many industry standard coding systems. The vocabulary server management system supports automated integrity checking of the CMV s semantic network and can provide automated support for EBM functions. The CMV can be combined with capabilities such as clinical workflow CDS EBM natural language processing and continuous speech recognition to provide an environment where a variety of clinical input e.g. typing speech menu picks and external documents are incorporated into the CPR system s functions. The CMV can work in conjunction with clinical workflow and CDS to help provide knowledge management within the CPR system.

In an example a mapping between external terminologies and use of text based analysis to provide additional meaning and presentations of medical codes and terms by supplementing the data with localized clinical content is automated. The example process can include the following 1 An initial CMV is created by cloning sections of external terminologies based on healthcare data domain e.g. LOINC for laboratory terminology CPT for medical procedures etc . The structures e.g. relationships concepts and terms of the standard terminologies are retained where applicable. Mappings between the CMV and publicly available mappings e.g. ICD 9 to ICD 10 SNOMED to CPT etc. are then used to create a web of related data. The web of data includes both direct e.g. equivalent and indirect mappings e.g. is broader than is narrower than . 2 Rules are created based on the mappings to determine how to handle changes to the source terminology. For example when a new term is added by a third party organization then the mapping for sister terms can specify to automatically propagate additions or put them into proposed status for review. 3 In addition to creating a CMV based on standard vocabularies customer presentations and mappings can also be included. To create such a CMV a healthcare organization aggregates its clinical content including nursing physician and administrative documents for example. Much of this data is currently collected in an unstructured mechanism via comment and note fields and thus very difficult to maintain in a structured terminology system. 4 This unstructured clinical content is then run through a text analyzer and extraction tool to organize the information based on synonyms abbreviations and relevance to existing source terminologies for example. 5 Source terminologies and medical dictionaries are used to augment the intelligence of the text analyzer. 6 Proposed terms and synonyms are extracted based on linguistic and probabilistic algorithms. Proposals are put into a queue for a terminology engineer to validate and promote to the controlled medical vocabulary for example. 7 Local synonyms and presentations based on the unstructured data analysis can be automatically put into a proposed queue to be added to the CMV.

In an example controlled medical terminology services and modeling and management tools are used to provide advanced analytics real time decision support and business intelligence through use of structured coded data. CMV systems store high quality computationally comparable reliable and reusable data to support such services. Additionally internal and external interoperability of systems processes and data can be provided to reduce costs incurred due to redundant and disparate data definition storage and maintenance and to promote national and international interoperability by sharing terminology with the healthcare community at large for example.

As shown in for example a controlled medical vocabulary CMV system includes a terminology foundation subsystem a common vocabulary one or more external vocabularies and one or more vocabulary consumers .

The terminology foundation subsystem includes modeling and management tools and common terminology services for code mapping browsing and querying services. For example the terminology foundation subsystem includes terminology modeling mapping and management tools a vocabulary management server a consolidated vocabulary storage a code system registry and consolidated vocabulary translation maps . The terminology foundation subsystem also includes one or more system importer plug ins . The system importer plug ins can include one or more of a SNOMED importer an ICD 9 importer an ICD 10 importer a LOINC importer a Unified Medical Language System UMLS importer a CPT importer a First Data Bank FDB importer and a common vocabulary importer .

External vocabulary ies can include a SNOMED CT vocabulary an ICD 9 vocabulary and ICD 10 vocabulary a LOINC vocabulary a UMLS vocabulary a CPT vocabulary an FDB vocabulary etc.

Vocabulary consumer s can include one or more applications . Vocabulary consumers communicate with the terminology foundation subsystem using technology services such as HL7 Common Technology Services CTS .

Using the system importer of the terminology foundation subsystem external code systems e.g. SNOMED LOINC CPT ICD 9 ICD 10 etc. can be loaded into a consolidated repository. Modeling tools allow informaticists to create modify map and or manage vocabulary concepts. Data storage and services are used to store and retrieve external code systems translation maps and a controlled medical vocabulary . Browsing code mapping and runtime services based on the HL7 s Common Terminology Services specification support a standards based controlled medical vocabulary. Versioning life cycle management dependency resolution and packaging services support publishing of terminology across environments.

As illustrated for example in terminology mapping tools load controlled vocabulary content e.g. LOINC SNOMED ICD 10 etc. from standards organizations and allow informaticists to create modify map and or manage vocabulary concepts. Using a knowledge management interface shown for example in a search input returns one or more resulting vocabulary concepts . The search input can be executed or cleared using buttons respectively. Search results can be filtered and or sorted by one or more additional criteria such as concept type status namespace owner etc. Selecting a concept in the search results displays information regarding that concept in a display area such as the picklist shown in . Within the picklist information relating to the selected concept such as domain picklist concept domain enterprise concept identifier ECID and picklist ECID is displayed for user review input and or modification. Designations within the selected concept are provided including designation name order type and universally unique identifier UUID for example. Additionally one or more candidate symptoms are provided including detail regarding each symptom. These symptoms are also displayed in an outline .

A set of selected concepts is also provided at the bottom of the interface . The set summarizes the description ECID status concept type owner namespace effective date concept type and expiration date for each concept. The interface also provides notes regarding a selected concept.

For example as depicted in the interface of a user can search for vocabulary concept s involving words starting with blood. A user can select a concept type such as a picklist a status such as active and a namespace such as GE Healthcare to refine the search results. A returned concept can be selected to populate the domain picklist concept domain ECID and picklist ECID for example. For the selected concept picklist designation information including designation name e.g. blood pressure panel order number e.g. 1 through 6 designation type e.g. clinical element display default display etc. and UUID can be provided. One or more candidate symptoms such as dizziness lightheadedness nausea etc. can be selected and also provided in outline form. A set of selected concepts such as one or more blood pressure concepts provides a summary of ECID status concept type owner namespace effective date concept type and or expiration date .

Concepts from a controlled terminology may not be sufficiently meaningful without a clinical structure to provide context. With a large number of equally correct ways to say the same thing understanding a desired meaning becomes unreasonably burdensome. Clinical Element Models CEMs can be utilized as the basis to model store and or retrieve dynamically changing clinical concepts and information.

A CEM is a data structure that represents a unit of medical information including its interrelated components. CEMs enable content driven systems development so that healthcare delivery can be documented consistently measured reliably and improved continuously over time and across patients providers care settings and applications.

A controlled medical vocabulary and clinical models form the basis for a content driven system that supports dynamic data workflows and or decision support. As illustrated for example in a terminology provides a coded controlled medical vocabulary that can serve as a basis for understanding clinical data. One or more clinical models provide detailed clinical element models CEMs representing information models bound to the terminology . One or more form templates business rules and or domain services provide reusable elements that add context regarding how an application would utilize content. The form templates business rules and or domain services are consumers of the clinical models and terminology . One or more applications provide content driven applications whose behavior is driven by dynamic templates and rules based on the form templates rules and or services clinical models and terminology .

As used herein several components provide information and functionality for terminology management. Example definitions of these components are provided below.

A code system is a resource that makes assertions about a collection of concepts where the concepts are uniquely identified by concept identifiers and represented by designations. Code systems are often referred to as terminologies vocabularies coding schemes and or code sets. A code system can be a terminology e.g. LOINC a vocabulary e.g. SNOMED a classification e.g. ICD 9 CM a thesaurus e.g. MeSH an ontology e.g. FMA or just a list of codes e.g. HL7 code systems . A code system can include concept relations where concepts are related by certain relationships or a code system may just contain a flat list of codes with their designations for example. A given code resolves to one meaning within the code system.

A concept is description of a unit of knowledge created by a combination of concept properties and concept relations within the context of a code system. A concept identifier is a numeric or alphabetic symbol that identifies a concept within the context of a code system. A concept identifier is often referred to as an entryCode e.g. in Mayo Clinic s Lexical Grid or LexGrid framework for representing storing and querying biomedical terminologies and concept code e.g. in HL7 CTS II or just a code. The concept identifier can be meaningful when it is related to the concept properties of the concept such as mnemonic codes hierarchical codes etc. The concept identifier can be non meaningful when it is not related the concept properties such as sequential id UUID etc.

A qualified concept code is a combination of a code system identifier and a concept identifier. A qualified concept code provides a globally unique name for the description and by proxy the referenced unit of knowledge . HL7 uses ISO Object Identifiers OIDs as code system identifiers. LexGrid uses Universal Resource Identifiers URIs . The current KTMI system uses DCE UUIDs for both code system identifiers and locally authored concept identifiers. Note that both OIDs and UUIDs can be transformed into URI s by prefixing them with urn oid and urn uuid respectively.

A concept property is an abstraction of a characteristic of a concept for defining and identifying the concept. A designation is a textual concept property that can be used to represent the intended meaning of a concept in certain usage context. A designation is often referred to as presentation LexGrid representation term ISO 17115 name HL7 etc. A definition is a concept property that provides a textual definition of the concept.

A relationship type is a binary predicate that when asserted to be true between two concepts asserts that a corresponding external relationship applies between the classes and or instances described by the concepts. A relationship type is referred to as an association in LexGrid although the LexGrid model confuses the type association as entity and the set of assertions association container for associationSource .

A relationship is an assertion of an association that pertains between two or more concepts through hierarchical associative sequential temporal or causal relationship types. Concept relation is often referred to as association e.g. LexGrid relation concept relationship e.g. CTS II relationship hierarchy. Association in LexGrid allows the source and target concepts to be from different code systems.

A usage context is a set of conditions that need to be fulfilled before a terminological component includes concept property designation relationship picklist concept map is eligible for usage. Usage context is often referred to as context of use context and or application context. Usage context includes application contexts clinical contexts user contexts patient contexts etc. The set of conditions can be pre coordinated into a description of an environment or stays as multi parameter conditions. The HL7 usage context is limited to the conditions in which a Value Set See Value Set section can be used.

A picklist is an ordered list of designations where the concepts represented by the designations are drawn from the same value set. Since the value sets in LexGrid HL7 and CTS II are independent of specific code system a picklist can also be generated with values from multiple code systems for example.

A concept map is a set of rules for transforming a concept from one code system to a concept in another code system. A concept map is often referred to as concept mapping or just mapping association e.g. LexGrid .

A value set definition is a set of rules that when applied to a code system version results in a list of qualified concept codes. A value set definition can be represented by a simple list of one or more concept codes or by a formula such as all concept codes in a specific namespace all concept codes that are the target or source of a concept relationship all concept codes referenced by another value domain definition etc.

A value set is a combination of a set of qualified concept codes resolved from value set definition and the corresponding values that represent the qualified concept codes in the context of a specific message or database. Value sets are frequently created algorithmically. Common value set algorithms include the specification that the concept identifier will represent the qualified concept code that the preferred designation will represent the qualified concept and or that the value of a particular property will represent the value for example.

In an example concepts are automatically mapped. For example as depicted in a direct concept to concept mapping rule can be applied between a clinical information system CMV e.g. GE Clinical Knowledge System CKS controlled medical vocabulary and an external vocabulary e.g. RxNorm Snomed CT LOINC ICD 9 etc. . In the example of a concept is equivalent to a concept . As illustrated in the example of each concept can be related to one or more concepts by relationships . Since the concept is automatically identified as equivalent to the concept by rule changes to concept in subsequent versions of the external vocabulary are identified and automatically proposed in the CIS CMV .

Alternatively and or in addition an inferred mapping rule can be applied to concepts. As illustrated for example in an inferred mapping is applied to an ECIS CMV and a standard vocabulary to generate an updated inferred ECIS CMV mapping . In the example of a concept is equivalent to a concept . Using the inferred mapping rule sister and child concepts relationships and mappings are proposed based on the standard vocabulary . By rule sister and child concepts in the ECIS CMV are automatically proposed based on the standard vocabulary .

As illustrated in example relationships between concepts can be inferred. Using an automated matching of mappings and relationships an ECIS CMV and a standard vocabulary can generate an updated ECIS CMV . Matching algorithms can be applied to the ECIS CMV based on the standard vocabulary . Then relationships and mappings for the updated CMV can be proposed based on the standard vocabulary .

The coded concepts found in the concept list are provided to the analyzer . The analyzer determines probabilistic matches between concepts from different coding schemes in the concept list . One or more probabilistic matching algorithms can be leveraged to match related terminology concepts for example. Matching can be facilitated according to an understanding of type category and or other criteria for example. Words synonyms codes etc. can be searched in respective coding schemes to identify potential match es and probabilities can be assigned to those matches for example.

In certain examples probabilistic matching can be facilitated using a language such as OWL to represent or model ontologies. Using a defined model a match can be made between terms or concepts. Using probability a probability that two concepts match can be represented as a product of a number of terms involved and is based on the model for example.

The analyzer outputs a code array such as a matrix table and or other array of matched codes. The array can include a matrix of potentially matching codes from two or more schemes and a probability and or other indication of the likelihood of a match for example.

The analyzer also provides coded concepts from the concept list to the visualizer . The visualizer depicts coded concepts from the concept list in a visual format such as a color coded or heat map for user review. Concepts can be depicted in a visual e.g. graphical format via the visualizer and using the user interface that illustrates potential match es among concepts based on for example proximity between the concepts on the display.

Using the code array and the visualize output via the user interface a user can review proposed code matches and approve and or correct the matches. For example as shown in an interface is provided to a user. The example interface includes a table view a visualization view and an XML source view .

The interface allows a user to search resources and perform batch matching for example. In batch matching a user can select a matching strategy to find existing matches in a selected terminology using concepts from a selected code system for example.

The interface can also provide the user with a concept worklist . In the example worklist of the user can review a description an identifier a status a concept type a code system and an owner for each concept in the worklist . From the concept worklist a user can select e.g. by double clicking a concept to open that concept in an editor for example.

The table view of the example interface of provides a list of concepts for user review and selection. Concepts are identified by concept description matching score code system and identifier for example. By selecting a concept in the table view the concept e.g. Unknown Gender can be expanded to show its options or variants. Additionally by selecting e.g. by double clicking a concept in the table view of the example of a user can add the concept to the concept worklist .

Alternatively some or all of the example processes of can be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Also some or all of the example processes of can be implemented manually or as any combination s of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example processes of are described with reference to the flow diagrams of other methods of implementing the processes of can be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks can be changed and or some of the blocks described can be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example processes of can be performed sequentially and or in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

At block a probability that two codes from the list are a match between first and second code schemes is determined. For example an array of scores is generated wherein each participating code scheme is represented by a dimension and each code in that scheme is a point in that scheme s dimension.

At block possible matches are organized based on probability in a matrix. For example if there are two different code schemes then each code in scheme one represents a row and each code in scheme two represents a column A probability that code three in scheme one is the same as code four in scheme two is the cell value at row three column four. By creating an M N matrix where M is a number of codes in scheme one and N is a number of codes in scheme two a number of visual and mathematical tools can extract meaning.

At block possible matches are organized in a visual graphic representation. For example a graphical representation of concept codes can reveal an existence of macro scale concept clustering and visually distinguish chaotic tangles from coherent one to one mappings for a user.

At block the graphic representation and the matrix are presented to a user for review. For example the visual representation and alphanumeric matrix data can be presented to a user within a single interface within separate interfaces etc. A user can select to view the graphical representation and the matrix together and or separately for example.

At block user input is received to select and or modify a possible match. For example a user can select a match from the matrix and or visual e.g. heat map representation of coded concepts to confirm a match between the two code schemes. Alternatively or in addition a user can select a probable match and modify the match to indicate a match of different concepts a different probability etc.

At block the selected match is used to map a concept from the first code scheme to the second code scheme. For example a selected match is confirmed to map terminology between the code schemes and allow communication between systems utilizing the first and or second code schemes.

The processor of is coupled to a chipset which includes a memory controller and an input output I O controller . As is well known a chipset typically provides I O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and or special purpose registers timers etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller performs functions that enable the processor or processors if there are multiple processors to access a system memory and a mass storage memory .

The system memory can include any desired type of volatile and or non volatile memory such as for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory read only memory ROM etc. The mass storage memory can include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives optical drives tape storage devices etc.

The I O controller performs functions that enable the processor to communicate with peripheral input output I O devices and and a network interface via an I O bus . The I O devices and can be any desired type of I O device such as for example a keyboard a video display or monitor a mouse etc. The network interface can be for example an Ethernet device an asynchronous transfer mode ATM device an 802.11 device a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular modem etc. that enables the processor system to communicate with another processor system.

While the memory controller and the I O controller are depicted in as separate blocks within the chipset the functions performed by these blocks can be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or can be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.

Certain embodiments contemplate methods systems and computer program products on any machine readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments can be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and or firmware system for example.

Some or all of the system apparatus and or article of manufacture components described above or parts thereof can be implemented using instructions code and or other software and or firmware etc. stored on a machine accessible or readable medium and executable by for example a processor system e.g. the example processor system of . When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the components is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray disc etc. storing the software and or firmware.

Thus certain examples described herein facilitate use of reduced manpower associated with manually matching terms between two or more code schemes as well as helping to provide faster interoperability configuration. Certain examples provide more reliable concept matching by computer generated determination of match probabilities augmented by user confirmation. Certain examples provide both alphanumeric and graphical representations of likely concept matches for both automated and manual review and confirmation of a probable concept match. Certain examples provide technical effects of advanced analytics real time decision support and business intelligence through use of structured coded data. Certain examples help reduce costs incurred due to redundant and disparate data definition storage and maintenance and help promote national and international interoperability by sharing terminology with the healthcare community at large.

Certain embodiments contemplate methods systems and computer program products on any machine readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments can be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and or firmware system for example.

Certain embodiments include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such computer readable media can include RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM Flash CD ROM DVD Blu ray or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of certain methods and systems disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention can be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections can include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and can use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents can be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications can be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

