---

title: Injection locked Long Josephson Junction pulse source
abstract: A superconducting circuit, and a method, are disclosed for generating pulses with stable frequency. The circuit includes an annular Long Josephson Junction (LJJ) capable of producing electrical pulses of a desired frequency due to a steady bias current applied to the LJJ. The circuit further includes an electrical interface for injecting an RF signal of a first frequency into the annular LJJ, resulting in the desired frequency locking onto the first frequency. Typically the first frequency substantially equals the desired frequency. The injection of the RF signal further results in the decrease of the frequency jitter of the desired frequency. The pulses generated in the loop section of the LJJ are outputted through a tail section of the LJJ, and through transmission lines which couple to the tail section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406834&OS=08406834&RS=08406834
owner: HYPRES, Inc.
number: 08406834
owner_city: Elmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101220
---
This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Small Business Innovation Research Contract W15P7T 07 C A 001 awarded by the U.S. Army. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to superconducting electronics. In particular it relates to circuits generating pulses of a stable frequency suitable for distribution as clock signals.

A superconducting circuit and a method are disclosed for generating pulses with stable frequency. The circuit includes an annular Long Josephson Junction LJJ capable of producing electrical pulses of a desired frequency due to a steady bias current applied to the LJJ. The circuit further includes an electrical interface for injecting an RF signal of a first frequency into the annular LJJ resulting in the desired frequency locking onto the first frequency. Typically the first frequency substantially equals the desired frequency. The injection of the RF signal further results in an increase in the stability of the desired frequency or alternately in the decrease in the frequency jitter. The pulses generated in the loop section of the LJJ are outputted through a tail section of the LJJ and through transmission lines which are coupled to the tail section.

As superconducting circuit technology matures towards ever more complex chips and toward higher dynamic range performance the need for precise and synchronous clocking is growing. With radio frequency RF clocks supplied from outside the superconductive environment scaling problems are emerging. A large high frequency signal brought to the superconducting chip from room temperature may be the source of interference with data outputs. Furthermore accumulation of jitter due to distributing a room temperature source is a further concern.

There is a need for developing superconducting precision frequency pulse circuits that may be used for clocking. Such a need has been recognized for some time. Schemes using an annular long Josephson Junction LJJ as the precision pulse generator have emerged showing encouraging results. An example may be for instance U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 805 to Gupta and Zhang entitled On chip long Josephson junction clock technology . However there is still a need to further improve the stability of the pulse frequency.

Embodiments of the present invention teach a LJJ high frequency pulse generator with an external RF signal resonantly injected into the LJJ loop. The result is a superconducting precision pulse generator with reduced frequency jitter.

A LJJ high frequency pulse generator is based on resonant fluxon modes in the LJJ. A fluxon is a magnetic flux quantum h 2e 2.07 mV ps. As it is well known the term long in the LJJ refers to a two dimensional geometry which is much larger than the Josephson penetration depth in one dimension and about the same size or smaller in the other where is typically several micrometers. Due to its closed topology and being unperturbed by reflections from boundaries and collisions among the fluxons an annular LJJ has good stability and a high quality factor Q . One may think of an LJJ as a racetrack in which a fluxon or fluxons circulate in a given direction and every completed lap by every fluxon produces an output pulse. For good pulse frequency stability and control it may be desirable to have only a single fluxon circulating in the loop of the LJJ.

In order to realize fluxon states magnetic flux quanta have to be trapped in the LJJ in a controlled manner. Recently in the art the flux quanta trapping has been accomplished with a control current passed through a portion of the superconductor loop which forms one side of the LJJ. Representative embodiments of the present invention follow this method for trapping a controlled number typically one fluxon into the LJJ.

An annular LJJ acts as a clock source with frequency of f V when the junction is biased at a voltage of V and a single fluxon is circulating in the loop. The fluxon circulates at a velocity that depends on the dc bias current and the frequency is inversely proportional to the circumference of the annular LJJ. In typical embodiments the LJJ is biased with a steady direct current to a location of the junction s I V curve where there is a region of minimal voltage change as function of bias current. For a given LJJ geometry only a limited range of frequencies are possible which may be tuned slightly by varying the current. While some tunability is desirable to compensate for non ideal fabrication the steeper and larger the current step is in the LJJ s I V curve the more stable the output frequency becomes.

For general terminology one may call the free running frequency of the LJJ as the desired frequency since one has control over this frequency through the manner the loop or ring of the LJJ is prepared. The LJJ oscillation or pulse production is due to a steady bias current applied to the LJJ. The desired frequency has a certain amount of frequency jitter which may be undesirable. For example if such a clock is used as a sampling clock for an analog to digital converter ADC clock jitter can lead to noise and nonlinearity in the data conversion. A free running LJJ may have a short term cycle to cycle variation and a slower long term drifting variation. For purposes of the embodiments of the present disclosure the term jitter is meant to encompass both short and longer term variations.

When a first signal which typically is an RF signal having a first frequency which first frequency is substantially equal to the desired frequency is injected into the LJJ s loop the desired frequency locks onto the first frequency and the frequency jitter decreases. The frequency jitter decrease is due to the steepening and increasing of the step in the I V characteristic. By stating that the first frequency is substantially equal to the desired frequency one understands that the match between the two does not have to be exact. The oscillating or desired frequency locks on to the first frequency even if the two frequencies were slightly different from one another up to the small tunability range of the LJJ typically of order several percent.

In some cases the injected RF signal may have the same effect when the first frequency instead of being substantially equal to the desired frequency it is close to a subharmonic which is understood to be . . . or more generally an L K ratio of the desired frequency where L and K are both integers and L is smaller than K. Again with the understanding that the free running frequency locks onto a harmonic of the injected signal. Also in some cases the injected RF signal may not be a pure sinusoidal signal so that it may comprise a wave with multiple harmonics. An example of such a non sinusoidal injected signal would be a periodic pulse train.

As it is known in the art to obtain a stable free running or desired frequency the loop which may typically be of a racetrack shape is biased through a plurality of resistors spaced around the loop in a preferably symmetrical and preferably uniform manner. At the same time the reduction of the frequency jitter by signal injection is most effective when the first signal couples into the loop of the LJJ in a non uniform manner representing a synchronization of the injected RF signal with the circulating fluxon pulse. Representative embodiments of the present invention often satisfy the dual aim of symmetric biasing and non uniform outside RF signal coupling. There may be embodiments however when the symmetry of the biasing resistors is relaxed in combination with non uniform or uniform injection and possibly with varying loop shapes.

A current source supplies a steady bias current for the loop section. The steady bias current enters the loop section through bias resistors spaced around the loop section in a symmetrical uniform manner. The circuit elements that have been discussed up to now are the ones of a free running LJJ which is capable to produce pulses with the desired frequency and with an inherent frequency jitter.

It is understood that the art of superconducting circuit technology is a mature one and circuits such as the discussed pulse generator or clock circuit may contain additional elements known in the art that are not shown in the figures of the present disclosure. The presented figures may display only elements that are relevant for embodiments of the instant invention but this should not be interpreted in a restrictive manner nor assumed in a manner that would limit implementations of circuits.

Injection of the first signal which originates from an RF signal source and is of a first frequency is done using an inductive electrical interface . The inductive electrical interface has a transformer which in a typical embodiment is a so called balun transformer having a balanced and an unbalanced side. The unbalanced side has a grounded termination. The first signal is received by the unbalanced side from the source . The first signal which is an RF signal is injected into the LJJ loop section from the balanced side . In general it is desirable that the RF signal be injected into the loop in a non uniform manner. Non uniformity may refer to either the spatial pattern of the injection or the temporal pattern of the injection. The manner in which the first signal coming from the transformer s balanced side is ultimately coupled to the loop section depends on how the bias resistors are arranged and on the particular shape of the loop which may or may not be of a racetrack shape as presently depicted in the figure. In typical embodiments of the invention the balanced side of the transformer connects to at least two of the bias resistors . However should not be interpreted in a limiting manner. Generally with an inductive interface one may use ways to inject the first signal into the loop section . For instance one may bypass the biasing resistors and couple directly to the LJJ.

The coupling arrangement depicted in may be one in a typical embodiment. This arrangement has the two leads of the transformer s balanced side each connecting to the bias resistors on only one side of the loop with the two connected sides of the loop in opposing configuration. The inductive electrical interface also has an RF choke that is positioned to isolate from the first signal those of the bias resistors that are not connected to the balanced side . For the embodiment shown in the bias resistors isolated from the RF signal by the RF choke are on opposite sides of the curving sections of the racetrack shaped loop . With such an arrangement the longer opposing sides of the racetrack shaped loop section receive the RF signal out of phase relative to one another while the opposing curving sections do not receive the RF signal. It was found that embodiments having a racetrack shaped loop section and having a first signal with substantially equal frequency as the free running frequency and having the inductive injection arranged as depicted in and herebefore described delivered satisfying results in stabilizing the desired frequency and reducing the frequency jitter. Experiments with ADCs which were able to receive clock signals from both an external source and from a superconduction pulse circuit with coupling arrangements as shown in demonstrated that the superconducting pulse circuit was at least equally satisfying to the external source.

The satisfying results also extended to what one may call electrical quietness of the pulse generating circuit. Since the frequency of the injected RF signal due to frequency locking is the same as the output pulse frequency the circuit has no other internal frequencies that may be leaking out and possibly disturb nearby sensitive circuits such as for instance analog to digital converters ADC . Due to the stable low jitter pulse stream that such a circuit produces and due to the electrical quietness the embodiment shown in is well suited to be a clock signal generator.

In representative embodiments of the invention the RF source itself may be located anywhere inside or outside the cryogenic environment and may be of any type known in the art. And as illustrated in there may even be a plurality of them serving the same circuit.

Embodiment of the present invention teach two manners to couple transmission lines to the tail section . One of the ways is depicted in . Here the transmission lines are coupled to the end of the tail section . In this arrangement the electrical pulses in differing ones of the transmission lines have identical phases namely they are simultaneously transmitted 70 to outside circuits. The impedances of the transmission lines together with series damping resistors connected to the LJJ tail must be selected so as to properly terminate the fluxon pulse output.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings and could be apparent for those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

