---

title: Controlling emission of events from managed systems to external management systems
abstract: In an embodiment, an apparatus comprises one or more processors and a computer-readable storage medium storing one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by the processors, cause the processors to perform generating relationship information based on relationships between one or more events that are generated by one or more managed systems. The computer-readable storage medium further comprises instructions which, when executed, cause sending the relationship information to the managed systems, wherein the relationship information allows the managed systems to determine whether reporting of the events, by the managed systems, should be suppressed; and receiving, from one or more managed systems, a report about an event when reporting of the event cannot be suppressed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08352592&OS=08352592&RS=08352592
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08352592
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100412
---
The present disclosure generally relates to communications between managed network infrastructure systems such as routers and switches and external management systems.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

An aggregate system may include one or more external management systems and one or more managed systems. Managed systems monitor the operations performed by components of the managed systems while external management systems oversee the operations performed by the managed systems. Managed systems may also generate status and statistical information about the operations performed by the managed systems and communicate the information to external management systems for control and monitoring.

Event data can represent status information communicated from a managed system to an external management system including managed system status status of components and performance data for the managed system or components. Often event data is voluminous and collecting and communicating a large amount of event data by managed systems may impede performance. Vast event data amassed and transmitted within the aggregate system may inhibit system functionality stall access to system resources and hamper operations that rely on availability of system resources.

A managed system could select and report only the most important events. However this approach requires the managed system to decide which events are important. Some managed systems may not have enough resources to perform both system primary tasks and to determine which events are important. Inconsistency in event reporting also may occur if managed systems use different criteria in determining which events are important. This approach also precludes the external management system from deciding which events should be reported. If a managed system evaluates importance of the events independently from the external management system the external management system may receive event information that is either incomplete or unnecessary. For example the external management systems may receive incomplete information about the events that are important but unnecessary information about the events that are unimportant.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In an embodiment an apparatus comprises one or more processors and a computer readable storage medium storing one or more sequences of instructions. The apparatus may also comprise an event processing logic that is coupled to the processors and is configured to send and receive one or more units of information.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium stores one or more sequences of instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the processors to perform generating relationship information based on relationships between one or more events that are generated by one or more managed systems and that may be captured by the event processing logic. Examples of the relationships between two or more events include but are not limited to any of a containment relationship an association relationship a parent child relationship a sequentially ordered relationship a weighted relationship an AND relationship an OR relationship a compound relationship a member of relationship and a NOT member of relationship.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause sending the relationship information to the managed systems. The relationship information helps the managed systems to determine whether reporting of the events by the managed systems should be suppressed.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause receiving from a managed system a report about an event after the managed system determined that reporting of the event s cannot be suppressed.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause generating one or more event reporting modes that are associated with the events and sending to the managed systems the event reporting modes. Examples of the event reporting modes include but are not limited to any of never report always report and conditionally report.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause generating one or more event enable disable characteristics that are associated with the events and sending to the managed systems the event enable disable characteristics. Examples of the event enable disable characteristics include but are not limited to any of enable reporting and disable reporting.

In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium further comprises instructions which when executed cause generating one or more event asynchronous synchronous characteristics that are associated with the events and sending to the managed systems the event asynchronous synchronous characteristics. Examples of the event asynchronous synchronous characteristics include but are not limited to any of asynchronous and synchronous.

In an embodiment a method is performed by one or more processors and comprises generating relationship information based on relationships between one or more events that are generated by one or more managed systems and that are captured by an event processing logic.

In an embodiment the method further comprises sending the relationship information to the managed systems wherein the relationship information allows the managed systems to determine whether reporting of the events by the managed systems should be suppressed.

In an embodiment the method further comprises receiving from a managed system a report about an event after the managed system determined that reporting of the event cannot be suppressed.

External management systems comprise in various embodiments one or more processors one or more memory units one or more communications interfaces an event processing logic and other components specific to the system implementation. Examples of the internal structures of external management systems are described in more detail in connection with . Examples of external management systems include network management stations or general purpose computers hosting or executing network management software such as Resource Management Essentials from Cisco Systems Inc. San Jose Calif.

Managed systems comprise in various embodiments one or more processors one or more memory units one or more communications interfaces an event processing logic and other components specific to the system implementation. Examples of the internal structures of managed systems are described in more detail in connection with . Examples of managed systems include network infrastructure elements such as routers switches firewalls and gateways general purpose computers printers scanners multifunction printers and any other computing infrastructure device or end station device that is capable of management.

External management systems may control and monitor operations performed by managed systems . For example external management systems may send to managed systems control information values for system parameters configuration information and requests for information.

Managed systems may monitor the operations performed by components of managed systems and may generate information about various events taking place in the managed systems. The event information may be related for example to status of the operations performed by the components of the managed systems statistical information and other type of information. The event information may be stored in storage and communicated to external management systems 

In an embodiment the event information is communicated to external management systems according to instructions received from the external management systems. For example external management systems may provide to managed systems instructions specifying the type of events and the type of event information to send to external management systems . Further external management systems may provide instructions regarding a frequency to send event reports to the external management systems. Upon receiving the instructions managed systems may start collecting information about the events process the collected information generate status information and performance statistics and communicate the event information to external management systems 

In an embodiment external management systems communicate with managed systems using communications links such as connections . Connections may be implemented using one or more technologies such as wireless Ethernet ATM and optical links.

Within aggregated system external management systems and managed systems may be divided into clusters. In an embodiment depicted in two clusters are provided. As depicted in one cluster is managed by external management system and another cluster is managed by external management system . In the first cluster external management system manages and monitors managed systems and in the second cluster external management system manages and monitors managed systems and . The clusters may overlap but overlap is not required. In managed system is managed by both external management system and external management system . The clustering scheme of the aggregate systems may change in time to reflect reconfiguration changes requested by a system administrator or by components of the aggregate systems.

In an embodiment managed systems may send event information to external management systems according to a schedule or any other scheme that is established for the event communications between managed systems and external management systems 

Managed systems may send event information to external management systems according to various methods. A particular method with which managed systems sends event information to external management systems may be selected or determined by external management systems and or by managed systems . A particular method may apply to all or some managed systems to all or some events and or to all or some external management systems . For example a particular method may apply to all or some events generated by managed system and sent to all or some external management systems . According to another example a particular method may apply to all or some events generated by all or some managed systems and sent to external management system . According to other example a particular method may apply to a particular event generated by a particular managed system and sent to a particular external management system.

In an embodiment managed systems may send event information to external management systems asynchronously. With asynchronous reporting managed systems may send event information to external management systems even if the external management systems have not requested the information. For example if managed system asynchronously sends a particular event to external management system then managed system can send the particular event to external management system even if external management system has not sent a request to managed system for information about the particular event .

In an embodiment managed systems may send event information to external management systems synchronously. With synchronous reporting managed systems may send event information to external management systems only if the external management systems have requested the information. For example if managed system sends to external management system a particular event synchronously then managed system can send the particular event to external management system only upon receiving from external management system a request in which external management system requests the particular event from managed system

Referring now to in an embodiment an external management system comprises one or more instances of each of the following a processor a memory a communications interface event processing logic management logic and other resources . External management system may also comprise one or more storage devices which may be local with respect to external management system or remote with respect to external management system as depicted in . External management system may be implemented as a special purpose computer general purpose computer using hardware logic such as in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA system on a chip SoC or other combinations of hardware firmware and or software.

In an embodiment one or more processors host or execute event processing logic which is configured to execute one or more computer programs and invoke various software elements stored in memory and or storage . For example event processing logic may execute instructions from an operating system various software applications programs configured to call an application programming interface API of the operating system and other programs available to the event processing logic .

In an embodiment external management system communicates with one or more external management systems and one or more managed systems using communications interface to send control information and to receive event information.

In an embodiment management logic implements device system or network management functions and provides facilities to communicate management information to and from a managed system and to configure the managed system. For example management logic comprises an instance of Resource Management Essentials.

In an embodiment storage may be any of volatile or non volatile storage medium and may be provided by various vendors and manufacturers. In an embodiment resources may include additional storage printing equipment faxing copying equipment and any other types of resources.

Referring now to in an embodiment a managed system comprises one or more instances of each of the following a processor a memory a communications interface an event processing logic and other resources . Managed system may also comprise one or more storage devices which may be local with respect to managed system or remote with respect to managed system as depicted in .

In an embodiment event processing logic is executed by one or more processors . Event processing logic is configured to execute one or more computer programs and invoke various software elements stored in memory and or storage . For example event processing logic may execute instructions from an operating system various software applications programs configured to call an application programming interface API of the operating system and other programs available to the event processing logic .

In an embodiment managed system communicates with one or more external management systems and one or more managed systems using communications interface to receive control information and to send event information.

In an embodiment storage may be any of volatile or non volatile storage medium and may be provided by various vendors and manufacturers. In an embodiment resources include any resources that managed system may require. For example resources may include a switching system route storage packet forwarding logic additional storage printing equipment faxing copying equipment and any other types of resources.

Managed system may be implemented as a special purpose computer general purpose computer hardwired device or logic such as an ASIC or FPGA or software hardware implementations. In certain embodiments managed system comprises a networking infrastructure element such as a router switch firewall or gateway. In some embodiments managed system may include packet processing logic configured for forwarding routing or switching data packets and configured to store update and advertise routes capabilities and other internetworking information. Managed system may also host as part of event processing logic or in separate logic one or more agents that implement network management protocols and configured to send and respond to network management protocol requests and responses. For example event processing logic may implement simple network management protocol SNMP and memory or resources may store or comprise one or more management information bases MIBs configured to store MIB objects.

Referring now to in an embodiment managed systems communicate event information to other managed systems and to one or more instances of an external management system . In an embodiment external management system controls and monitors one or more managed systems . External management system communicates with managed systems via communications links which can be unidirectional or bidirectional.

Managed systems communicate with each other via communications links which can be unidirectional or bidirectional. Two or more managed systems may be connected in a series in a ring according to any combination of series and rings and or according to any other topology. In an embodiment a communications link between managed systems have endpoint connections which are terminated at endpoints . Endpoint connections communications links and communications links may be implemented using any of several technologies such as wireless Ethernet ATM and optical links.

During operations of the managed systems managed systems generate and collect information about various events. Event information may be captured in one or more units of information . Units of information may be communicated between managed systems and or between managed systems and external management system . Units of information comprise event information that managed systems report to external management system . Units of information are reported according to any method protocol that is compatible with managed systems and external management system or that was agreed upon or which the systems accepted.

In an embodiment units of information are reported to external management system synchronously that is upon receiving or in response to a request for information from external management system . In an embodiment before managed system reports a unit of information to external management system the managed system determines whether the event can be or should be reported and if so whether a request for the event previously was received from external management system .

In an embodiment units of information are reported to external management system asynchronously that is regardless whether external management system has requested the units of information from the managed systems . In an embodiment managed system can report a particular unit of information to the external management system even if the external management system has not sent a request for the particular unit of information .

In an embodiment units of information are communicated between managed systems along communications links and between the managed systems and external managed system along communications links . Communications links may be used to communicate control information between managed systems and to communicate status and statistical information between the managed systems.

Communications links may be used by managed systems to report one or more units of information to external management system and by external management systems to request one or more units of information from managed systems . Communications links may be also used to send to managed systems instructions about sending one or more units to external management system and about sending any other type of information.

For purposes of illustrating clear examples shows one external management system and three instances of managed system . However practical embodiments may use any number of external management systems and any number of managed systems .

Referring now to in an embodiment a managed system contains one or more instances of memory for storing multiple units of information that capture information about events generated by components of managed system . Memory may comprise any of RAM ASIC ROM and disk. In an embodiment memory may include multiple units of information including but not limited to system status information performance information counter values information and various types of information and statistics that are specific to managed system . Managed system may use the values stored in units of information units to generate events and to report specific information about the events to external management systems.

For purposes of illustrating clear examples shows one instance of memory and three units of information . However practical embodiments may use any number of units and any number of instances of memory .

Referring now to in an embodiment an aggregate system comprises an external management system managed systems and a database .

External management system may communicate with managed systems via database . Alternatively external management system may communicate with managed systems directly using database to share data with managed systems 

In an embodiment managed systems comprise multiple sub systems. Examples of sub systems include an SNMP sub system BGP sub system and IPsec sub system. External management system may communicate directly and individually with each of the multiple sub systems of managed systems . Alternatively external management system may communicate directly with managed systems and indirectly with the multiple subsystems of managed systems . The sub systems of managed systems may communicate events directly to external management system . The sub systems of managed systems may communicate events to managed systems and have managed systems communicate the events to external management system .

In an embodiment external management system and managed systems communicate via database which connects the systems via bidirectional and or unidirectional communications links. Managed systems may store data in database from which external management system may retrieve pull the information. Similarly external management system may store data in database from which managed system may retrieve pull the information for the future use.

In an embodiment external management system sends control information and event information requests to managed systems to facilitate communications between the external management system and the managed systems. The control information and event information requests may be stored in database and pulled by managed systems . Alternatively the information may be sent directly from external management system to managed systems 

In an embodiment managed systems may send event information to external management system . The information may be stored in database and pulled by external management system and or other managed systems. Alternatively the information may be sent directly from managed systems to external management system and to other managed systems.

In an embodiment external management systems limit the amount of information that is reported from managed systems to the external management systems by providing instructions to managed systems about the type of reported events and the frequency of reporting. The instructions comprise control information that the managed systems use to determine which events and how often should be reported to the external management systems and which events should not be reported.

In an embodiment control information may be based on information describing relationships between the events that are generated by managed systems describing how the events are related to each other and describing which events are in the same relationship.

Various relationships may exist between events generated within one aggregate system. The relationships between the events may represent dependencies between events that are generated within one managed system and or dependencies between events that are generated by a plurality of managed systems. For example some events generated by one managed system may be related to other events generated by the same managed system. As another example some events generated by one managed system may be related to the events that are generated by other managed systems.

In an embodiment information about relationships is collected by external management systems. Alternatively the information about relationships is provided to the external management systems by other systems. The relationship information can be collected using daemons schedulers and other logic adapted for this purpose. The relationship information may be stored at each of the external management systems. Alternatively the relationship information may be stored at dedicated external management systems or at a database that is shared between the external management systems.

In an embodiment the relationship information may be periodically pushed to the external management systems and or periodically pulled from the shared resource by the external management systems.

In an embodiment the process of collecting relationship information starts from collecting information about events generated by managed systems and sending the collected information to external management systems. The external management systems determine how the events are related to each other and generate relationship information. The relationship information is distributed to the managed systems.

In an embodiment external management systems and or managed system use relationship information to determine characteristics that are associated with respective events and that the managed systems may use to control the amount of reports that the managed systems send to the external management systems. For example based on the characteristics associated with the events the managed systems may determine whether reporting of a particular event that is generated by the managed system should be suppressed or not whether reporting of the particular event is enabled or disabled whether reporting of the particular event should be synchronous or asynchronous etc.

Various types of relationships between events generated by managed systems may be identified. Examples of various relationships may include but are not limited to containments associations parent child sequential time ordered relationships weighted relationships aggregations compositions generalizations realizations compound relationships OR relationships AND relationships member of relationships not member of relationships and any other relationships that may exist between two or more events.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a containment relationship. In a containment relationship one event assumes a role of a container and contains one or more other events. A container event corresponds to an object that is configured to hold contained events. For example generating performance reviews for all employees in a department is in a containment relationship with generating an individual performance review for a particular employee in the department. In this example generating performance reviews for all employees in the department is a container event while generating an individual performance review for a particular employee in the department is a contained event.

A containment relationship may be described in a context of a network interface device. A chassis of the network interface device may hold one or more cards. Each of the cards may include one or more ports. Thus a particular port is contained in a particular card and a particular card is contained in a particular chassis. Consequently events generated by the particular port are contained in the events generated by the particular card and the events generated by the particular card are contained in the events generated by the particular chassis. Hence the relationship between the events of the particular port and the events of the particular card is a containment relationship and so are the events of the particular card and the events of the particular chassis.

In an embodiment if two events are in a containment relationship then a managed system may evaluate one or more conditions to determine whether one event is communicated to an external management system if another event is present. For example one condition may require that if two events are in a containment relationship and a container event is present then information about a contained event is not communicated to the external management system. According to another condition if two events are in a containment relationship and a contained event is present then information about a container event is not communicated to the external management system.

In an embodiment two or more events are in an association relationship. In an association relationship one event is associated with another event if there is a logical connection or a logical link between the two events. For example sending a message and receiving the message are associated events.

An association relation may be described in a context of a computer network. For example if a network topology includes two or more routers the routers that directly communicate with each other may be in an association relationship. The events generated by a first router may be associated with the events generated by a second router. If the first router sends a message to the second router and the second router receives the message then the sending the message and receiving the message are associated events. Hence an association relationship exists between the events of the first router and the events of the second router.

A reciprocal association relationship does not necessarily exist. For example if the events of the first router are associated with the events of the second router the events of the second router may or may not be associated with the events of the first router.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a parent child relationship. In a parent child relationship one event is a parent event to one or more other child events. For example a computer process that spawns one or more sub processes may have a parent child relationship with the sub processes. A parent child relationship may be described in a context of a computer network. For example a network management node that performs management functions and oversees a network of routers and switches may be in a parent child relationship with the routers and switches. In this relationship the network management node is the parent and the routers and switches are children.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a sequential time ordered relationship. In a sequential time ordered relationship one event precedes another event and occurs before another event takes place. For example sending a response to a particular request occurs after receiving the particular request. A sequential time ordered relation may be described in a context of computer network. For example receiving a data packet at a particular network node precedes forwarding the data packet by that node to another node. The packet receiving event precedes the packet forwarding event.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a weighting relationship. If two or more events are in a weighting relationship then each of the one or more events has an associated weighting factor that may indicate importance of the particular events its urgency or any other attribute with respect to another event. For example receiving a message with a normal delivery attribute may have a lower weighting factor than receiving a message with an urgent delivery attribute. A weighting relationship may be described in a context of a computer network. For example receiving an integrity check request at a node may supersede any other tasks performed by that node. Thus the receiving the integrity check request may have associated a high weight value while other tasks may have associated lower weight values.

In an embodiment two or more events are in an aggregation relationship. An aggregation relationship is a variant of the association relationship described above. However the aggregation relationship is more specific than an association. An aggregation may be similar to an association except that an aggregation may not involve more than two classes of the events.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a composition relationship. A composition relationship is also a variant of an association however it even is more specific than an aggregation. While an aggregation relationship is often called a catalog of related objects a composition relationship may be termed a physical object.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a generalization relationship. A generalization relationship is an inheritance relationship and may be easily understood by the phrase A is B which means that A has the characteristics of B. For example a BGP router belongs to a group of routers because the BGP router has the typical characteristics of a typical router. Thus although a BGP router is a specialized router the BGP router is still a router.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a realization relationship. A realization relationship is a relationship between two model elements in which one model element the client realizes the behavior that another model element the supplier specifies. A realization relationship may be identified between classes interfaces components and packages that connect a client element with a supplier element.

In an embodiment two or more events are in a compound relationship. A compound relationship is a hybrid of any of two or more relationships and is created by concatenating the two or more relationships with using logical operators. Examples of logical operators include AND OR NOT MEMBER OF NOT A MEMBER OF etc. For example two events may be in a parent child relationship AND also in an association relationship.

In an embodiment a compound relationship may be expressed using a logical AND connector to connect two events that are in a sequential time ordered relationship AND in a parent child relationship. For example a first event precedes a second event the sequential time ordered relationship AND the first event is a parent of the second event the parent child relationship . A managed system may evaluate one or more conditions to determine whether the first event and or the second event should be communicated to an external management system. For example a condition may indicate that if the first event and the second event are in the sequential time ordered relationship AND in the parent child relationship and if the first event is present then reporting of the second event is suppressed. According to another example of the same compound relationship a condition may indicate that if the second event is present then reporting of the first event is suppressed.

In an embodiment external management systems send information about the relationships between the events generated by managed systems to the managed systems. The managed systems use the relationship information to determine a set of conditions that the managed systems can use to control emission of events from the managed systems to the external management systems. In particular the set of conditions allows a managed system to determine whether to suppress reporting an event generated by the managed system.

In an embodiment a particular event is reported by a managed system to an external management system only if one or more conditions associated with the particular event are satisfied. The conditions may be communicated to the managed system by an external management system or may be determined by the managed system based on information that the managed system generated or obtained. Furthermore some of the conditions may be communicated to all managed systems in an aggregated system while other conditions may be communicated to some but not all managed systems.

In an embodiment a condition associated with a particular event includes evaluating one or more relationships in which the particular event is present. For example the particular condition may require determining whether the particular event is in a relationship with other events and if so whether the other events are present and whether the conditions associated with the other events are satisfied.

In an embodiment a particular condition includes evaluating events that are in relationships with a particular event and it is determined that the particular event is in a parent child relationship with a second event and that the second event is in a parent child relationship with a third event. Then determining whether the particular condition is satisfied may depend on whether the conditions associated with the parent child relationship of the second event and the third event is satisfied and then whether the conditions associated with the parent child relationship of the first event and the second event are satisfied. If the conditions associated with the second and the third events are satisfied and require suppressing of the event data from the second and third events then the particular condition may also require suppressing reporting data from the particular event.

Referring now to in operation a managed system generates an event. Information about the event may be generated by one or more components of the managed system and may be related to processes executed by the components status and statistical information of the components configuration information about the components errors that occurred during execution of the processes by the components and any other type of information related to functions performed by the managed system. An event may be generated as a result of changes taking place within the managed system including changes in the status of the managed system changes in data recorded by counters and changes in states of managed devices and components and or as a result of conditions related to the status operation performance and other characteristics of the managed system.

In operation the managed system retrieves control information that is associated with the particular event. Control information associated with the particular event may be any type of information that an external management system provided to the managed system in advance or any type of information that the managed system generated based on the information received from the external management system and or based on the information currently available to the managed system from various sources.

In an embodiment control information associated with the particular event comprises information about relationships in which the particular event is present and about other events that are in relationships with the particular event. Examples of various relationships involving the particular event may include but are not limited to containments associations parent child sequential time ordered relationships weighted relationships aggregations compositions generalizations realizations compound relationships OR relationships AND relationships member of relationships not member of relationship and any other relationships that may be defined between two or more events.

In an embodiment control information associated with the particular event comprises information about conditions that are associated with the particular event.

In operation the managed system determines a reporting mode that is associated with the particular event. The reporting mode is used by the managed system as one of a plurality of conditions to decide whether the particular event should be communicated to the external management system. Examples of reporting modes may include but are not limited to never report always report and report conditionally. If the reporting mode is never then the managed system cannot report any information about the particular event to the external management system. If the reporting mode is never in a system that comprises more than one external management system then the managed system may be unable to report information about the particular event to some external management systems but may be allowed to report information about the particular event to remaining external management systems.

If the reporting mode is always then the managed system should always report the information about the particular event to an external management system. If the reporting mode is always in a system that comprises more than one external management system then the managed system should always report the information about the particular event to some external management systems but not always to others.

If the reporting mode is conditional then the managed system can report the information about the particular event only if the conditions associated with the particular event are satisfied. Logic used to determine if the event should be communicated to the external management system takes into consideration the relationships in which the particular event is present. If the reporting mode is conditional in a system that comprises more than one external management system then the managed can report the information about the particular event to a particular external management system only if the conditions associated with the particular event and the particular external management system are satisfied.

In operation the management system determines whether the reporting mode associated with the particular event is never. If it is determined that the particular event should never be reported to the external management system then in operation the managed system suppresses reporting of the particular event. However if it is determined that the reporting mode associated with the particular event is not never then the managed system moves on to performing operation .

In operation the managed system determines whether the reporting mode associated with the particular event is always and if so then the managed system moves on to performing operation and to performing operations depicted in . However if it is determined that the reporting mode associated with the particular event is not always then the managed system moves on to performing operation .

In operation the managed system determines whether the reporting mode associated with the particular event is conditional and if so then the managed system moves on to performing operation to performing operations depicted in . However if it is determined that the reporting mode associated with the particular event is not conditional then the managed system moves on to performing operation to performing operations depicted in .

Referring now to in an embodiment an approach for controlling emission of events from a managed system to an external management system is illustrated. In operation the management system determines whether the particular event is related to any other event or events.

In an embodiment the particular event may not be present in any relationship with any other event. If the particular event is not related to any other event then the managed system moves on to performing operation and to performing operations of .

In an embodiment the particular event may be in one or more relationships with other events and in multiple relationships with the same other events. Examples of various relationships involving the particular event may include but are not limited to containments associations parent child relationships sequential time ordered relationships weighted relationships aggregations compositions generalizations realizations compound relationships OR relationships AND relationships member of relationships not member of relationships and any other relationships that may be defined between two or more events. If the particular event is at least in one relationship with at least one other event the managed system may create a list a table or any other structure containing information about the relationships in which the particular event is present.

In operation the managed system determines whether the related event or events are present. However if the related event or events are not present then the managed system moves on to performing operation and to performing operations of .

If the other events related to the particular event are present then in operation the managed system determines the conditions that are associated with the other events.

In an embodiment the conditions may specify whether the information about the particular event should be suppressed. For example the particular event may be in a parent child relationship with a second event and the second event may have an associated particular condition that specifies that if the particular event and the second event are both present then the information about the particular event should be suppressed. Accordingly if the particular event and the second event are in the parent child relationship the particular condition is associated with the second event and both the particular event and the second event are present then the information about the particular event should be suppressed.

In operation the managed system determines whether conditions associated with the particular event and the conditions associated with the events that are in relationships with the particular event are satisfied. For example the particular event may be in a parent child relationship with a second event. Furthermore the second event may have an associated particular condition that provides that if the particular event and the second event are both present then the information about the particular event should be suppressed but the information about the second event should not be suppressed. Accordingly because the particular event and the second event are in the parent child relationship the particular condition is associated with the second event and both the particular event and the second event are present then the information about the particular event should be suppressed.

According to another example the particular event may be in a parent child relationship with a second event and the second event may have an associated particular condition that provides that if the particular event and the second event are present then the information about the particular event should not be suppressed but the information about the second event should be suppressed. In this example because the particular event and the second event are in the parent child relationship the particular condition is associated with the second event and both the particular event and the second event are present then the information about the particular event should not be suppressed.

The above examples are provided only to illustrate some of the embodiments. However practical embodiments may include multiplicity of relationships and conditions.

If in operation the management system determined that other event conditions that are associated with other events that are in relationships with the particular event and that require to suppress reporting of the information about the particular event are satisfied then the managed system moves on to performing operation and does not report the information about the particular event. However if the other event conditions that require suppressing reporting of the information about the particular event are not satisfied then the managed system moves on to performing operation and to performing operations of .

Referring now to in an embodiment an approach for controlling emission of events from a managed system to an external management system is illustrated. In operation the managed system determines enabled disabled communications characteristics that are associated with the particular event.

In an embodiment the particular event may have associated enabled disabled communications characteristics that provide information whether communication of the particular event is enabled or disabled. For example even if the managed system determined based on relationship information associated with the particular event that the information about the particular event should be reported to an external management system reporting of the particular event may be still suppressed if the communication of the particular event is disabled at a particular moment. According to another example if the managed system determined that the particular event is not related to any other event reporting of the particular event may be suppressed if the communication of the particular event is disabled at a particular moment.

In an embodiment the enabled disabled communications characteristics that are associated with the particular event and that provide information whether communication of the particular event is enabled or disabled are stored in structures comprising toggles such as an enable disable toggle.

In operation the managed system determines whether communication of the particular event is enabled and if it is not the managed system moves on to performing operation and does not report the particular event.

However if the communication of the particular event is enabled in operation the managed system determines asynchronous synchronous characteristics that are associated with the particular event. Examples of the associated asynchronous synchronous characteristics may include an asynchronous characteristics and synchronous characteristics.

If the particular event is associated with the asynchronous characteristics then assuming that all the related conditions are satisfied and the information about the particular event should not be suppressed the information about particular events should be immediately send to an external management system even if the external management system has not requested the particular event.

If the particular event is associated with the synchronous characteristics then assuming that all the related conditions are satisfied and the information about the particular event should not be suppressed the managed system may send the information about the particular event only after receiving a request from the external management system for information about the particular event.

In operation the managed system determines whether the particular event should be sent to the external management system asynchronously and if so the managed system reports the particular event asynchronously in operation . However if the particular event should be reported synchronously then in operation the managed system determines whether it received form the external management system a request to report the particular event.

If in operation the managed system determined that the request to report the particular event was received from the external management system then in operation the managed system synchronously reports the particular event to the external management system. However if in operation the managed system determined that the request to report the particular event was not received from the external management system then the managed system loops back to operation and waits for receiving such a request.

The managed system may use control information to select a time period for synchronous communication of events to the external management system and to avoid deadlocks of the managed system while awaiting the request from the external management system. In an embodiment the managed system may also send a reminder to the external management system or any other message that would permit the managed system wait only for a particular period of time and terminate the wait if the request is not received by the managed system before the expiration of the particular period of time.

The examples of control information presented in this description the examples of event reporting modes and the examples of relationships and conditions are only some of the possible examples and are not intended to restrict in any way implementations of the disclosed approach.

The flow diagrams presented in this description and the decision paths illustrated are only examples of possible decisions that may be made in the managed system and are not intended to restrict in any way the disclosed approach of other control information values or types that may be used to determine whether event information is suppressed or communicated from a managed system to an external management system.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM flash memory or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk flash memory or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

A communication interface may be coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Interface may be a conventional serial interface such as an RS 232 or RS 422 interface. An external terminal or other computer system connects to the computer system and provides commands to it using the interface . Firmware or software running in the computer system provides a terminal interface or character based command interface so that external commands can be given to the computer system. In an embodiment communication interface also provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

A switching system is coupled to bus and has an input interface and an output interface to one or more external network elements. The external network elements may include a local network coupled to one or more hosts or a global network such as Internet having one or more servers . The switching system switches information traffic arriving on input interface to output interface according to pre determined protocols and conventions that are well known. For example switching system in cooperation with processor can determine a destination of a packet of data arriving on input interface and send it to the correct destination using output interface . The destinations may include host server other end stations or other routing and switching devices in local network or Internet .

According to one embodiment compliance management is provided by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term computer readable storage medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non transitory and non volatile storage media and non transitory volatile storage media. Non volatile storage media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile storage media includes dynamic memory such as main memory .

Common forms of computer readable storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other non transitory tangible storage medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable storage media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to bus can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . In accordance with the invention one such downloaded application provides for compliance management as described herein. The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

