---

title: Transaction split fees
abstract: A transaction fee imposed by a payment provider may be allocated between the parties to an on-line transaction in any way and at any time. This adds flexibility to the transaction and allows the parties to allocate the transaction fee on a per transaction basis that best suits the parties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504433&OS=08504433&RS=08504433
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08504433
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
The present invention generally relates to on line payments and more particularly to on line payment fees.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as the Internet. Consumers routinely search for and purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions can take place directly between an on line merchant or retailer and the consumer where payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Purchasing through the Internet from the convenience of a consumer s home office or virtually anywhere with mobile devices is one main reason why on line purchases are growing faster and faster.

However one disadvantage with on line transactions as opposed to physical point of sale POS transactions is the assurance of payment by the seller and receipt of the purchased item by the buyer. Payment providers like PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. can process a payment for an on line transaction. Such payment providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties. For this service though payment providers typically charge a fee for the seller and or the buyer.

These fees are generally fixed by the payment provider prior to engaging in the transaction. In most situations the fee is imposed on the seller. As a result the seller sometimes lists or offers items for slightly more to cover that additional fee or the seller may add additional costs for the purchase such as in a shipping and handling charge. Such buyers may not be aware of the additional charge imposed by the payment provider which benefits both the seller and the buyer. As a result potential buyers viewing the listings may pass on a purchase because they believe the seller has too high a shipping and handling cost or the item is priced too high.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a transaction fee imposed by a payment provider may be allocated between the parties in any way and at any time. This adds flexibility to the transaction and allows the parties to allocate the transaction fee on a per transaction basis that best suits the parties. The transaction fee can also include shipping and handling fees or any other fees added to the payment provider fee.

In one embodiment the transaction fee varies with the funding source of the buyer or sender. For example a bank account may have a lower transaction fee than a credit card. In this embodiment when a buyer decides or selects a funding source the payment provider presents the transaction fee to the parties. The parties then decide between themselves how that fee is to be split. Once agreed upon the split is conveyed to the payment provider who then processes the payment according to the split.

The transaction fee may be known by both parties such as the payment provider conveying the transaction fee or the seller informing the buyer of the fee. The parties may agree to a fee split any time prior to completing the transaction. In other embodiments the transaction may first be completed and the parties then decide how to split the fee. If an agreement cannot be reached the transaction may be canceled by either party. If more than two parties are involved the transaction fee may be split between all the parties. The payment provider then processes the payment accordingly.

As a result buyers are more informed of fees associated with a transaction with the payment provider the seller can shift a portion of the fees to the buyer and the parties have more transparency to total costs of the transaction. This can result in a higher likelihood that a transaction can be completed.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Once the transaction has been identified the parties to the transaction are identified at step . Note that identifying the parties can be before or during step in different embodiments. The parties may include more than just a buyer and seller or recipient. There may be developers middle men distributors etc. that are part of the transaction. In the current example the parties are the buyer who may be a typical consumer and the seller who may be an on line retailer.

Next at step a determination is made whether a fee split has been set. A fee split may be defined as how a transaction fee is allocated between the parties. For example a payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. may charge a fee for handling the payment the seller or a shipper may charge a fee for shipping and or handling a middle man may charge a fee for putting together the transaction etc. Thus a transaction fee may be any fee associated with a transaction but is typically a payment provider service charge along with possibly shipping and handling charges imposed by the seller. The transaction fee can be a combination of fees or separated into two or more distinct and separate fees. For purposes of discussion the transaction fee discussed in the examples is just the payment provider fee. A payment provider fee is typically charged to the seller but can be charged to the buyer.

A transaction fee may be charged by a service provider acting as a middle man to facilitate a transaction between a buyer and a seller. The service provider may provide the forum such as a web site for sellers to list items and for buyers to find and purchase items. The service provider may impose a fee on either the seller or the buyer when a purchase is made. The amount of a transaction fee may depend on many different factors including but not limited to type of seller e.g. individual or business number of transactions dollar amount of transaction funding source for buyer etc.

Typically for a payment provider fee the transaction fee is set and paid by the seller. However in embodiments of the present invention the transaction fee is split between one or more parties to the transaction. For example a fee of 1.00 may be set with 0.60 to be paid by the seller and 0.40 to be paid by the buyer upon completion of the transaction. The fee split may be initially determined by the seller or by the payment provider. If no fee split has been set as determined at step a fee split is set at step . The fee split may be determined by the seller buyer or the payment provider and may be based on the transactions and or the parties identified at steps and respectively.

For example the seller may set a lower split amount for the buyer if the buyer is a regular purchaser of the seller s items. A high priced purchase may result in the seller setting a lower fee split for the buyer as well since the transaction fee will be a relatively minor part of the total purchase price and the seller is more concerned with completing the transaction than saving a few cents or dollars on the transaction fee. In other examples the buyer may set the fee split as part of an offer for the seller s goods. The fee split may again depend on similar factors as when the seller sets the fee split. The payment provider may also set the fee split with the split depending on any number of factors including data about the seller data about the buyer the amount of the transaction etc.

Once the fee split is set a determination is made at step whether there is an agreement between the parties for the fee split. For example if the split was set at 0.40 for the buyer and 0.60 for the seller the parties may agree by electing to confirm the split or the transaction. Agreement may also be through other means such as email or text. If an agreement is reached the payment is determined or allocated at step . Continuing with the above example if the total purchase price including any fees other than the transaction fee is 60.00 the buyer would be obligated to pay an additional 0.40 for a total payment of 60.40 with 60 going to the seller and 0.40 going to the payment provider. The seller would be responsible for paying the additional 0.60 to the payment provider for the total transaction fee of 1.00.

After the payment amount s have been determined the transaction is processed at step . The payment provider may credit the seller s account the appropriate amount. In one example the seller s account is credited 59.40 which is the purchase price of 60 minus the seller s portion of the transaction fee. The payment provider may also debit the buyer s account e.g. 60.40 which is the purchase amount plus the buyer s portion of the transaction fee. The seller and or buyer can be notified by the payment provider of a completed transaction.

Referring back to step if there is no agreement on the fee split two possibilities may occur. In one possibility one or more parties proposes a new fee split at step in an attempt to reach an agreement. This may then result in an agreed upon fee split and the transaction continues as discussed previously. In another possibility no agreement can be reached between the parties resulting in the transaction being canceled.

A fee split feature as discussed herein provides numerous advantages. For example transaction fees can be variable and depend on different factors such as funding source i.e. credit card bank account etc. . This provides flexibility and may give the parties the best rate based on the funding source. As a result the parties may save money and the payment provider may receive a fee most suited for its business. Furthermore the fee split can be set at any time again giving more flexibility for the parties. The fee may be set when an item is listed such as at an auction or the fee may be set after a transaction is initiated such as during a checkout process. The fee split may be set as a dollar amount a percentage of the purchase price or some other means. Since the parties know the amount of any transaction fees prior to concluding a transaction there are not surprises or cause for complaints later.

While the above has focused on a two party transaction seller and buyer there may be more than two parties to a transaction as mentioned earlier. Fees may be split between all parties or just selected ones. There may also be different fees at different stages of the transaction so that fees may be split at any or all of these stages. The payment provider can then easily allocate the various fee splits to the appropriate parties and process the payments.

After receiving the transaction data the payment provider determines at step whether a transaction fee has been set which may be included in the transaction data. The transaction fee may have been preset and listed as part of the offering. However in other embodiments the transaction fee may not have been preset. For example the transaction fee may be dependent on funding source or other transactional data. In that case the payment provider sets the transaction fee at step based on the information received at step .

Once the fee is known either preset or set based on transaction data a determination is made at step whether a split for the transaction fee has been received. This indicates that the parties have agreed to some splitting of the transaction fee. Note that the split could be a 100 0 split such that one party is solely responsible for the transaction fee while the other party has no responsibility for the fee. The payment provider may receive a proposed fee split made by one party after the transaction fee is known but before the parties have reached an agreement as to the split.

If a fee split has been received the payment provider uses the data to transmit payment information to one or more parties at step . The fee split data may include a percentage or dollar amount of the amount to be split between each party to the transaction. The payment provider then adjusts the payment amounts based on the transaction fee and split amount. At this point the parties have the final payment amounts and details of the transaction so that the transaction can be confirmed if desired. This determination is made at step . A received confirmation may include the buyer selecting or clicking on a Pay Confirm or other similar button or link. This causes the information to be transmitted to and received by the payment provider.

Once confirmation is received the payment provider processes the payment at step . Using the information received the payment provider is able to determine how much to credit to or debit from each party s account. Thus the received information typically includes account information of the parties identifying information of the parties contact information of the parties and details of the purchase. Processing may also include transmitting a confirmation of a completed transaction to one or more of the parties.

Referring back to step if no fee split was received which may indicate that the parties have not agreed to a fee split or that no fee split has been set or proposed a determination is made at step whether a cancellation was received. If the parties could not agree to a fee split one of the parties may have canceled the transaction such as clicking on a Cancel button or link. A cancellation may also be conveyed by other means as is known by those skilled in the art. If a cancellation is received or detected the transaction is canceled.

The transaction may also be canceled even after the parties have agreed on a fee split. Referring to step one of the parties may cancel or not confirm the transaction at a later stage of the processing such as during a checkout or final payment portion. In that case the buyer may decide to cancel the transaction such as selecting a cancel or similar button or link or simply closing the window or powering off the device without confirming the transaction.

Identification of the parties may include the identity of one or more of the parties involved in the transaction account information of the parties funding source of the buyer location of the parties and any other relevant information about the parties needed or desired by the payment provider. This information in conjunction with the transaction information will help the payment provider determine a transaction fee at step .

The amount of the transaction fee may be based on any number of factors and may vary between transactions parties and payment providers. For example the transaction fee may be lower for a lower cost transaction a valued seller buyer and or other party to the transaction a high volume seller less complicated transactions transactions between parties in the same country or using the same currency and or a lower risk transaction. A lower risk transaction may be one in which the payment provider has a higher confidence level that the parties will not dispute the transaction later. A lower transaction fee may also be given when certain buyer funding sources are used such as a debit card or bank account as opposed to a credit card. Higher transaction fees may be imposed on higher dollar amount transactions less valued sellers and or buyers riskier transactions more difficult transactions and or a buyer funding source that makes the funding more difficult or costly.

Once the fee is set the fee is conveyed to the parties where a fee split is determined. At step a determination is made whether the fee split has been set such as described above with respect to . The remaining steps are similar to those in and will not be repeated in detail. If the fee split has not been determined the fee split is set at step . A determination is then made at step whether there is an agreement between the parties to the fee split. If not the parties attempt to reach an agreement such as by modifying the fee split if needed. If no agreement is reached the transaction may be canceled.

If the parties agree to the fee split the payment is allocated at step which includes at least the buyer s portion of the transaction fee. If the transaction is confirmed the payment provider processes the transaction at by debiting the appropriate amount from the buyer s account and crediting the appropriate amount to the seller s account where the amount may be different between the two accounts.

Client device merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable medium such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment client device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments client device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

As shown client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

Client device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

Client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to client device . In particular applications may include a payment application and quick pay button such as described herein for quick payments through a payment provider. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow user to send and receive emails and or text messages through network . Client device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of client device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an on line merchant digital goods seller or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network including digital goods and applications. Merchant server may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over network to browser of client device . For example in one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to search and view various items identified in database .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of items identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server over network .

In one embodiment merchant server further includes a delivery application which may be configured to deliver a digital or downloadable item to client device . For example if user purchases a downloadable item or enhancement from the merchant delivery application has the ability to transmit or download the item onto client device or allow additional access to user after payment is confirmed by payment service provider server .

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server . Payment service provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with client device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of items by user of client device from a merchant operating server .

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example in one embodiment account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user as well as device information from a phone or PC that aids in determining whether a payment request is to be approved. Payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application and delivery application to track and manage purchases made by users.

Payment service provider server also includes a fee application which may be configured to process information associated with determining and allocating one or more transaction fees for a transaction. A payment processing application may be configured to receive payment request information via client device including transaction information merchant information funding information and or user information process the payment request and store retrieve information as needed in a database . Fee application processing application and or database may all or part of payment application .

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard and a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component such as described above with respect to the consumer merchant and or payment provider in . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and a communication interface . Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

