---

title: Detector assembly for use in environments containing background magnetic noise and method thereof
abstract: A method and system for detecting a signal source at a specified frequency in the presence of background noise includes a processor; a first sensor mounted at a first location operatively connected to the processor; a second sensor mounted at a second location operatively connected to the processor; the processor operating to compute the amplitudes of the first and second Fourier transforms of the outputs of the first and second sensors, respectively, the difference in the amplitudes of the first and second Fourier transforms being determinative of the existence of a signal being generated at the predetermined frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249820&OS=08249820&RS=08249820
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08249820
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100702
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

There are many potential military and commercial applications for an improved magnetic sensing system that can more effectively and rapidly detect the presence of an electromagnetic field magnetic object or a target. For example all types of land vehicles ships and aircraft have structural and power systems capable of generating substantial magnetic signatures. Even small inert objects may exhibit sufficient magnetization to be observed from a distance.

Magnetoresistive sensor technology has the capability of producing low cost magnetic sensors. Magnetic sensors or transducers are generally passive sensors with desirable attributes for several types of applications that include insensitivity to weather conditions the requirement of only a small bandwidth and the unique ability to see through walls and foliage without attenuation. Furthermore in military applications it is generally difficult to make a weapon or vehicle that does not include ferrous material that can be detected by magnetic sensors. Though the permanent magnetic moment of the ferrous material can be minimized by deperming which is a process of reduction of permanent magnetism the distortion of the earth s magnetic field due to the magnetic permeability is typically difficult to hide. Data from magnetic sensors can be combined with the data from other sensor modalities such as acoustic and seismic sensors to characterize or identify and track targets. Specifically in military applications magnetic sensors can be used for perimeter defense at check points as part of a suite of sensors in unattended ground sensor networks and on unmanned ground vehicles UGVs and unmanned air vehicles UAVs . Moreover magnetic sensors or transducers can also be employed to monitor rooms and passageways that have been cleared by military personnel.

The magnetic signals from military targets come from the internal motion of ferromagnetic parts electrical currents and the motion of targets containing ferromagnetic material relative to the magnetic sensor. The latter can arise either from the motion of the target or the sensor. All of these magnetic signals often occur at low frequencies typically less than 100 Hz. Because of background generation of magnetic fields it is generally difficult to detect the magnetic signals that occur at low frequencies.

Conventional magnetic sensing systems however are ill suited for detecting specific frequencies e.g. magnetic signatures in environments with excessive background magnetic noise. In addition conventional systems are generally unable to detect a specific frequency when the magnetic noise in the environment includes the frequency. With a limited capacity to provide highly selective frequency detection mobile magnetic sensing systems e.g. mounted to a motorized vehicle typically become inoperable and impractical due to excessive magnetic noise associated with the surrounding environment.

As used herein the term type of geophysical instrument used for magnetic surveys in which a pair of magnetometers are normally mounted one above the other on a single support staff. Various kinds are available but the most commonly used in archaeology is the fluxgate gradiometer with the direction responsive sensors between 0.5 m and 2.0 m apart. This measures the gradient in a magnetic field and will detect shallowly buried features and structures. The use of dual sensors overcomes many of the problems associated with single sensor instruments for example variations in the strength of the Earth s magnetic field and deep seated geological anomalies. By systematically scanning an area on a grid system and logging the readings at close intervals it is possible to build up detailed plots showing the shape and form of the archaeological anomalies. These can be used to propose the nature and extent of buried features.

In view of the foregoing a preferred embodiment provides a system for detecting a signal source which may be at a specified frequency whether or not background noise is present. The preferred embodiment comprises an assembly having at least two spaced apart sensors receivers for receiving signals from a potential target area a gradiometer comprising a first magnetometer coupled to a first receiver and producing first signal information and a second magnetometer coupled to a second receiver and producing second signal information and a processor for processing information from the first and second sensors receivers . As used herein the terminology processor means digital signal processor computer personal computer laptop CPU multiprocessor microprocessor multiple processors multiprocessors general purpose computer or the like. As used herein the terminology assembly such as assembly means an operative association of components and is not intended to imply a necessary physical association or connection although the components may be physically connected.

The preferred embodiment assembly may be vehicle mounted and the first and second sensors receivers may be positioned on opposites sides of the vehicle. Optionally the sensors may be remotely positioned and transmit wirelessly or by a connector to a processor which is remotely located.

The processor may comprise or have associated therewith an analog to digital converter A D converter whereby the signal information from the respective sensors is converted to a digitized output in a narrow band around a frequency f. The A D converter produces a digital output from analog input.

In addition the assembly may comprise a Fourier transform unit which computes a first Fourier transform for the signal SIG from sensor in a narrow band around frequency fand a second Fourier transform for the signal SIG from sensor in a narrow band around frequency f. Moreover the assembly may comprise a ratio unit coupled to the Fourier transform unit for outputting a ratio of the amplitudes of the first and second signal Fourier transforms at the specified frequency.

Furthermore the assembly comprises a processor . In a preferred embodiment the processor computes the amplitudes S Swhich are the Fourier transforms of the signals of the sensors and at the frequency f. The difference in amplitudes is S cS where Sis input derived from the first sensor Sis input derived from the second sensor and c is the input from the ratio unit . Optionally the processor may convert the signal from analog to digital compute the ratio and or the Fourier transforms without departing from the scope of the present invention.

For calibration purposes the test signal generator may comprise a signal generator and coil system wherein the signal generator and coil system emits a signal at the specified frequency and is positioned symmetrically relative to the first sensor or magnetometer and the second sensor or magnetometer . The test signal generator may be a conventional appliance broadcast source signal generator or the like. Upon reception of the test signal the processor computes a sensitivity of said first magnetometer and said second magnetometer and computes c.

A preferred embodiment for detecting an object emitting a specific frequency in an environment with magnet noise also being emitted at the specific frequency may comprise first and second gradiometers producing first and second signal information respectively and a processor for processing the first and second signal information and computing first and second Fourier transforms of the first and second information signals respectively. In such an apparatus the processor may determine a first amplitude from the first Fourier transform of the first information signal and a second amplitude from the second Fourier transform of the second information signal at the specified frequency. Moreover the processor may calculate a ratio of the first amplitude and the second amplitude at the specified frequency. Furthermore the processor may compute S cS where Sis the first signal information Sis the second signal information and c is the ratio at the specified frequency and is a fixed constant.

Another embodiment herein provides a method of detecting a specific frequency in an environment with magnet noise emitting the specific frequency the method comprising capturing first signal information capturing second signal information computing a first amplitude comprising calculating a first Fourier transform of the first signal information computing a second amplitude comprising calculating a second Fourier transform of the second signal information computing a ratio of the first amplitude to the second amplitude calculating S cS where Sis the first signal information Sis the second signal information and c is the inverse ratio and is a fixed constant and outputting the result.

In such a method the processor may detect a known or unknown object at the specific frequency when the calculation S cSproduces a non zero value and wherein an object is not detected when S cSproduces a zero value. In addition the signal information may be captured using first and second magnetometers. Furthermore when the computation S cSis greater than zero this may indicate that the source is emitting the fixed frequency closer to the first magnetometer compared to the second magnetometer and wherein when the computation S cSis less than zero such a method may indicate the source is emitting the fixed frequency closer to the second magnetometer compared to the first magnetometer and wherein when both Sand Sincrease and the computation S cSis near zero such a method may indicate the source is emitting the fixed frequency that is equidistant the first magnetometer and the second magnetometer. Moreover the first magnetometer and the second magnetometer may be components of a gradiometer. Additionally the capturing of the first and second signal information may be done over a period of time.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a component that is farthest away.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The embodiments herein provide an improved magnetic sensing system capable of detecting specific frequencies in environments with excessive magnetic noise. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

In a signal generator and or coil are situated an equal distance from first sensor and second sensor . The signal generator and coil are used to generate a magnetic field at a specified frequency f. Because of possible varying sensitivity the input to sensor is termed SIG and the input to sensor is designated SIG. The output from first sensor and output from second sensor are fed into signal processor as separate input channels. In addition the separate input channels of signal processor e.g. output from first sensor and second sensor are fed into signal converter . While not shown signal converter may include at least one analog to digital converter and may be configured as a two channel analog to digital converter or two separate analog to digital converters e.g. one analog to digital converter for each input source . The output of signal converter may include two separate channels of digitized output e.g. and where in the digitized output is a discrete series of numeric values based on a continuous input e.g. output from first sensor or second sensor .

As further shown in the two output channels of signal converter e.g. and are subsequently fed into Fourier transform unit . Fourier transform unit performs a Fourier transform operation on each output channel of signal converter e.g. and to produce an amplitude of that channel at the specific frequency f e.g. and . Alternatively Fourier transform unit may perform an approximation of a Fourier transform such as a fast Fourier transform. The amplitude values produced by Fourier transform unit e.g. and are then fed into ratio unit . Ratio unit produces the ratio of to or as output at the specified frequency f. This ratio is denoted as c and provides the calibration for the sensors . In other words the ratio c accounts for the difference in sensitivity between the sensors . The value c is stored for subsequent calculations such as in an environment depicted in .

After the initial calibration that is used to determine c is completed one may define the amplitudes Sand Sas corresponding to the amplitudes of the Fourier Transform of sensor and sensor at the frequency f respectively. The difference S in the amplitudes of the Fourier transforms of the signals SIG SIG is defined by the equation S S cS Equation 1 . This amplitudinal difference S at the frequency f will be zero everywhere except when one is near a source e.g. target emitting a signal that contains f. The difference in amplitudes S of the Fourier transforms will be either plus when sensor is closer to the source than sensor minus when sensor is closer to the source than sensor or zero when the sensors are equidistance from the source or when they are both a substantial distance away .

As is known in the art the Fourier transform defines a relationship between a signal in the time domain and its representation in the frequency domain. S is the amplitude of the Fourier transform at the frequency fin question.

When in motion vehicle or target or both for example while coupled to a motor vehicle the signals SIG SIG from sensors and are measured as a function of time. As described in further detail below while in motion signal detection apparatus again computes S S cS the difference amplitudes after taking the Fourier transform. The amplitudinal difference S is non zero as signal detection apparatus vehicle approaches a detection target or visa versa as the target approaches the apparatus whenever the sensors are at different distances from the detection target . As stated previously the constant c eliminates any difference in sensitivities of the sensors . This interaction of sensors and detection target while signal detection apparatus is in motion or while the target is in motion or both is described in further detail below with reference to .

As shown in signal detection apparatus may be mounted on a vehicle . Vehicle is shown in on road at position heading towards detection target . Vehicle is also shown in on road at position near detection target . In vehicle is moving in a linear direction e.g. traveling forward on a road towards detection target . First sensor and second sensor are shown in as being coupled to opposing sides of vehicle . For example in first sensor is coupled to a left side of vehicle and second sensor is coupled to a right side of vehicle however the embodiments herein are not restricted to any particular placement of the sensors in relation to the vehicle . In addition while signal detection apparatus mounted on vehicle in signal detection apparatus is not limited to such a coupling and may in general be coupled to any mobile device or apparatus. Examples include but are not limited to all forms of terrestrial vehicles either military or civilian portable devices and handheld devices.

While not shown in first sensor may produce a first signal and second sensor may produce a second signal. First sensor and second sensor may produce signals SIG and SIG that are processed independently.

The combination of first sensor and second sensor together may operate as a gradiometer for measuring the difference between two signals e.g. first signal and second signal with an aim to facilitate rejection of common mode noise signals and improved reduction in errors due to sensor calibration at frequency f. The terminology SIG and SIG has been used generically above and both first sensor and second sensor may comprise magnetometers in which case the signal that is being detected would be a magnetic field. The signal processing technique of the preferred embodiment may utilize sensors comprising electric field sensors or in addition seismometers or some other kind of electromagnetic field or acoustic sensor.

The output of processor shown in indicates whether signal detection apparatus is near detection target . For example the output of processor shown in may be zero when the signal detection apparatus is unable to detect detection target and the output new signal generator shown in may be non zero when the apparatus is able to detect detection target . The output also detects whether sensor or sensor is closer to the target . If sensors and are equidistant from the target then the output would equal 0. Both signals Sand Sare larger when apparatus is at position compared to when apparatus is at position .

As an example signal detection apparatus may be searching for detection target which is known to emit a frequency fat 60 Hz. In addition one could scan the frequencies for detecting signals at other frequencies other than 60 Hz. For example if looking for an underground facility where an appliance such as a fan is present. Assuming most electrical products operate in the surveillance area operate at 60 Hz by moving the detection apparatus around variations above the background noise may be detected. Signal detection apparatus uses first sensor and second sensor to capture signal information on either side of vehicle . In addition the detection apparatus could be handheld and carried. In addition only the sensors may be carried with provision being made for radioing signals receive by sensors to a base unit at a remote location. The signal information captured by each sensor e.g. Sis captured from first sensor and Sis captured from second sensor is processed by signal processor . Signal processor takes the Fourier transform e.g. by using Fourier transform unit of the signal information captured by each sensor to produce amplitude values and . Signal processor then signal information by computing the amplitudinal difference S S cSat frequency f where c was calibrated and stored earlier as c using signal generator and coil as described above. As a consequence of the above calculations performed by signal processor signal detection apparatus detects detection target emitting a frequency f when S 0. If S 0 target is closer to sensor whereas if S

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown . The chip design is created in a graphical computer programming language and stored in a computer storage medium such as a disk tape physical hard drive or virtual hard drive such as in a storage access network . If the designer does not fabricate chips or the photolithographic masks used to fabricate chips the designer transmits the resulting design by physical means e.g. by providing a copy of the storage medium storing the design or electronically e.g. through the Internet to such entities directly or indirectly. The stored design is then converted into the appropriate format e.g. GDSII for the fabrication of photolithographic masks which typically include multiple copies of the chip design in question that are to be formed on a wafer. The photolithographic masks are utilized to define areas of the wafer and or the layers thereon to be etched or otherwise processed.

The resulting integrated circuit chips can be distributed by the fabricator in raw wafer form that is as a single wafer that has multiple unpackaged chips as a bare die or in a packaged form. In the latter case the chip is mounted in a single chip package such as a plastic carrier with leads that are affixed to a motherboard or other higher level carrier or in a multichip package such as a ceramic carrier that has either or both surface interconnections or buried interconnections . In any case the chip is then integrated with other chips discrete circuit elements and or other signal processing devices as part of either a an intermediate product such as a motherboard or b an end product. The end product can be any product that includes integrated circuit chips ranging from toys and other low end applications to advanced computer products having a display a keyboard or other input device and a central processor.

The embodiments herein include both hardware and software elements. The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the embodiments herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The Fourier transform of the signals from sensors and may be calculated. In general Fourier transform X f is composed of a real and imaginary function. The real function is x f and the imaginary function is x f . Thus x f is given by To determine the amplitude these functions are evaluated at the frequency f the functions are squared and summed together. By taking the square root of the sum the amplitude is derived which is measure of the signal strength at the frequency f.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein. While others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications it is not intended that such specific embodiments be interpreted as departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

