---

title: Superconducting analog-to-digital converter with current amplified feedback
abstract: A superconducting bandpass sigma-delta modulator and a method for analog-to-digital signal conversion is disclosed. The superconducting bandpass sigma-delta modulator includes coupled resonators having a desired impedance ratio. A first resonator connects to a comparator, which comparator generates single-flux-quantum pulses. A feedback loop links from the comparator to a second resonator and includes a current amplifier. A digital RF receiver system is also disclosed. This system includes a second order bandpass sigma-delta modulator, which has a desired impedance ratio between resonators and a feedback loop with current amplification. The system further has an antenna configured to receive a GHz frequency radio transmission and to yield an analog signal which is accepted by the sigma-delta modulator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08416109&OS=08416109&RS=08416109
owner: HYPRES, Inc.
number: 08416109
owner_city: Elmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101216
---
This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Small Business Innovation Research Contract W15P7T 07 C A 001 awarded by the U.S. Army. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to superconducting electronics. In particular it relates to Analog to Digital Converters ADC based on oversampled single bit quantizers.

A superconducting bandpass sigma delta modulator and a method for analog to digital signal conversion are disclosed. The superconducting bandpass sigma delta modulator includes a first and a second coupled resonators having a desired impedance ratio. The first resonator connects to a comparator which comparator generates single flux quantum pulses. A feedback loop forms a link from the comparator to the second resonator and this link includes a current amplifier.

A digital radio frequency receiver system is also disclosed. This system includes a second order bandpass sigma delta modulator which has a first and a second resonator coupled to each other and the resonators have a desired impedance ratio. The first resonator connects to a comparator which comparator generates single flux quantum pulses. A feedback loop forms a link from the comparator to the second resonator and this link includes a current amplifier. The system further includes an antenna configured to receive a GHz frequency radio transmission and to yield an analog signal which is accepted by the sigma delta modulator.

It is understood that analog to digital converters ADC based on sigma delta modulators or delta sigma modulators are well known in the electronic arts. Basic concepts of superconductor ADCs have also been discussed already for instance by O. A. Mukhanov et al. in Superconductor Analog to Digital Converters Proc. IEEE Vol. 92 pp. 1564 1584 2004 . Various implementations of multi stage superconductor bandpass modulators have also been disclosed see US patents U.S. Pat. No. 7 598 897 issued on Oct. 6 2009 to D. Kirichenko and U.S. Pat. No. 7 728 748 issued on Jun. 1 2010 to D. Kirichenko. Aspects of these earlier implementations have also been reported at the Military Communications Conference 2007. MILCOM 2007. IEEE 29 31 Oct. 2007 Page s 1 5 Digital Object Identifier 10.1109 MILCOM.2007.4455052 by D. Kirichenko et al.

The embodiments of the present disclosure are implemented in the general framework of superconductor rapid single flux quantum RSFQ technology.

It is also understood that in RSFQ technology there are known structures and methods for instance input output methods timing schemes current and power supplies and others that may be symbolically displayed in the drawings of the present disclosure but are only peripheral for the embodiments of the instant disclosure and hence will not be discussed in detail.

In embodiments of the presently disclosed modulator attention is given to minimize intrinsic timing uncertainties also known as jitter. Improving the internal timing accuracy in the modulator leads to better performance. In embodiments of the present disclosure timing accuracy of the modulator is improved in the feedback loops and by the manner the resonators are coupled to each other. In representative embodiments of the present disclosure resonators are connected by a passive element such as a capacitor and the decoupling of the resonators is achieved by creating an impedance mismatch between neighboring resonators. Such a scheme may lead to improved timing while yielding sufficient resonator isolation. In the feedback loop the comparator output entering the feedback path is subjected to current amplification in order to satisfy requirements arising due to the resonator s impedance mismatch. The current amplification typically contains a long Josephson junction LJJ which is known for its timing accuracy and bandwidth linearity.

The two resonators are coupled to each other through a capacitor marked as Cin . With the proper selection of the impedance ratio and of the coupling capacitor C one may achieve proper isolation of the resonators together with repeatable accurate timing in every clock cycle. The good timing behavior is due to simplicity namely to the fact that only low loss passive electrical components such as inductors and capacitors are used in the resonators and in their coupling.

It is known in the art that the resonant frequencies of the resonators in bandpass modulators have to be quite close to one another. This conditions entails that L C L C from which it follows that the impedance ratio Z Z between the first resonator and the second resonator is about equal to the ratio L L of the first resonator s inductance and the second resonator s inductance . Since the desired impedance ratio of the two resonators and hence L L is relatively large it may result in that the second resonator s inductance L has to be selected to be rather small possibly in the few pH range maybe being only 1 to 2 pH.

Having a small inductance in the second resonator requires that a large current be supplied by the feedback loop which current flows into the second resonator s inductance . In order to provide the necessary current the feedback loop includes current amplification. In representative embodiments of the invention the current amplification includes a long Josephson Junction LJJ . An LJJ comprises a Josephson junction in which at least one dimension is significantly larger than the Josephson penetration depth which is typically of several micrometers. Long Josephson Junctions are known in the art see for instance N. F. Pedersen Fluxon Electronic Devices IEEE Transactions on Magnetics vol. 27 no. 2 March 1991 pp. 3328 3334. In an LJJ a Josephson vortex or fluxon may propagate as a sharp voltage pulse from the input to the output without attenuation.

The digitizing in the modulator occurs in the Josephson junction comparator which connects to the first resonator . The JJ comparator generates single flux quantum SFQ pulses. The SFQ pulses are produced by the clocked JJ marked J. The comparator JJ is clocked through second JJ marked J. Such clocked JJ comparators are well known in the art and they may be able to exceed pulse rates of 100 GHz.

It is also know in the art that due to the quantum nature of the JJ switching a JJ comparator clocked through a second JJ provides a backward directed pulse simultaneously with the output of a SFQ pulse. The backward directed pulse provides an implicit feedback loop for the first resonator consequently an explicit feedback loop is needed only for the second resonator . The implicit feedback due to the backward pulse of the comparator JJ has the advantage of intrinsically possessing the desired precise timing.

The explicit feedback loop links to the second resonator and receives the SFQ pulses of the comparator . Typically the SFQ pulses may be put through a JJ delay flip flop for resynchronization ahead of amplification. Also a variable delay may be inserted into the clock signal path for additional flexibility in the feedback timing. For the explicit second order feedback loop to be effective the feedback time of the loop may have to be less than one clock period. It is also desirable that the signal frequency and the sampling frequency to be in certain specific ratios with the sampling frequency being 4 times the signal frequency in a representative embodiment. Such arrangements in the feedback loop as the flip flop and the variable delay are known in the art. There may be further techniques known in the technology for achieving improved operation that are not shown or discussed here which nonetheless may also be applied without limitation by embodiments of the present invention.

Following the possible resynchronization the feedback path enters the current amplification stage. Apart of the already discussed LJJ which is a novel element in the feedback loop and serves as the primary current amplifier one may employ a Josephson transmission line JTL for preamplification purposes.

The analog input signal which typically but not exclusively may be in the 100 MHz to 100 GHz range connects to the second resonator . The digital output signal may be tapped off the feedback path typically but not exclusively from the LJJ amplifier .

Embodiments of the invention may contain additional components or fewer components as such may be known in the art. Additional components may be without limitation current sources latches clocks JJs further delay elements in the feedbacks and others.

Using LJJs as amplifiers has been known in the art. Basically the LJJ is current biased below but near its critical current. When the current of the input pulse arrives the critical current of the LJJ is exceeded and the LJJ is triggered into its finite voltage state. The multiple in a representative embodiment dual arm construction of the LJJ serves the purpose of delivering a large current while significantly exceeding in only one dimension. The shown two arm construction should not be regarded as limiting further arms or just a single arm may be used depending on need and on layout considerations.

The LJJ amplifier is non damped and as such prone to unwanted oscillations which would be detrimental to the modulator s performance. The shape of the LJJ and of its arms evince considerations to avoid such unwanted oscillations. A maximum width value greater than about twice would not result in further current gain but also might degrade the LJJ amplifier performance. Due to similar considerations the ends of the arms of the LJJ are tapered down to 2 m which may suppress reflections from those ends. This narrowing of the ends together with the narrow input part means that the LJJ and or its arms have a varying width of a doubly tapered shape. In representative embodiments the tapering means that at a midsection region is the LJJ and or its arms the widest. As shows the input is accepted at a location where the varying width of the LJJ is smaller than at the location where the LJJ has an amplified output entering the inductor .

Since the LJJ in the embodiment shown in has two arms the inductor of the second resonator is also comprised of two separate members as indicated in . Both of the inductor members then connect to the capacitor C of the second resonator . Although LJJs are well known in the art integrating an LJJ into a circuit is a challenge that requires appropriate device matching termination and or damping to facilitate the transmission of fluxons from an LJJ to other devices in the circuit. For instance this is evidenced in the design of the pulse output port. The depiction of electrical elements in and such as for instance inductors resistors capacitors JJs follows the standard illustrations accepted in the art.

Specific values of the various components in the modulator depend on particular implementation of an embodiment. Considerations entering the selection of component values may primarily be related to the signal frequency. Representative considerations and component values with the understanding that no limitation on other selections is intended may be given below for the case of an analog input signal in the 6 to 10 GHz range with a modulation in the 500 MHz range. Digitization at these frequencies have been realized with chips as the one shown in and with selection of component values given as follows.

Input frequencies in the near 10 GHz range require a clock frequency for the modulator in the 20 to 30 GHz range. As discussed earlier a high L Lratio is desirable for effective isolation of the resonators. An Lvalue above 100 pH may not desirable since it may lead to higher thermal Johnson noise. Accordingly a choice of about L 90 pH L 4.5 pH yielding a L Lratio of 20 may be adequate. Then resonant frequency considerations may require capacitance values of about C 100 pF and C 4 pF. For such resonator element values a C C C 20 selection for the coupling capacitor Cis preferred because it gives additional isolation to the resonators. This entails for Cto be about 1 pF which also fulfills the desire that Cshould be smaller than C.

In the feedback path the input to the current amplification is a balanced comparator junction which may have a critical current of about 200 A. With the current requirement of the L inductor being about 12 mA a current amplification of about needs to take place in the feedback loop . Using advanced sub micron lithography for the superconducting circuits the critical current of the junctions in the LJJ may be sufficiently low that the LJJ by itself would be capable of the needed current amplification. Such a solution may be preferable since as known in the art the LJJ operates in so called non damped mode which makes its operation very fast. However in alternate embodiments for instance in the one displayed in the LJJ is preceded by a JTL which provides preamplification. In a representative embodiment the JTL may contain a few maybe 2 to 6 gradually increasing JJs to drive the input of the LJJ .

The spectrum shows nulls at f 7044 MHz and f 6562 MHz. For this measurement the clock frequency was 24.0 GHz and the applied analog radio frequency RF input signal had a power level of 27 dBm at 6900 MHz. The measured signal to noise ratio SNR equals 5.16 bits 32.84 dB in the band between 6.48 GHz and 6.98 GHz.

The fabricated see and measured see ADC circuit had a Z Z impedance ratio around 20. With higher impedance ratio the center frequency of the modulator sensitivity would increase. For an impedance ratio of about 50 100 a 500 MHz bandwidth signal could be sensitively detected with a central frequency of 7.5 GHz.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings and could be apparent for those skilled in the art. The scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

