---

title: Apparatus and method for authoring data in communication system
abstract: An apparatus for authoring data in a communication system includes: an extraction unit configured to receive media corresponding to contents and extract contents information regarding the contents from the received media; a generation unit configured to generate a DMB ECG XML-based metadata comprising the extracted contents information; and a processing unit configured to visualize particulars of the DMB ECG XML-based metadata through a user interface and process the user interface so that the DMB ECG XML-based metadata is generated and edited on a template.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521744&OS=08521744&RS=08521744
owner: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
number: 08521744
owner_city: Daejeon
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20101112
---
The present application claims priority of Korean Patent Application Nos. 10 2009 0109575 and 10 2010 0110387 filed on Nov. 13 2009 and Nov. 8 2010 respectively which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention relate to a communication system and more particularly to an apparatus and a method for authoring metadata regarding contents so that in conformity with user demands for contents users are provided with various types of user friendly contents in a digital broadcasting system.

There has been performed a wide range of research to provide users with services of various levels of QoS Quality of Service having a high transmission rate in the current communication systems. A number of approaches have been proposed to transmit various types of contents rapidly through limited resources in a digital broadcasting system which is an example of such communication systems.

Current digital broadcasting systems require methods for providing users with more diversified digital broadcasting contents specifically user friendly broadcasting contents that conform to user demands for services. In the case of DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting which is a type of digital broadcasting system when users are provided with a DMB service they are also provided with information regarding DMB contents i.e. DMB EPG Electronic Program Guide .

Users provided with broadcasting services in such a digital broadcasting system specifically DMB system tend to demand more diversified broadcasting services i.e. contents. However current digital broadcasting systems have limitations in providing information regarding contents which is needed to provide contents. In other words the above mentioned DMB EPG which is necessarily provided when DMB contents are provided by the DMB system cannot properly provide every piece of information regarding various contents in conformity with user demands for various types of contents. Specifically the DMB EPG cannot guarantee efficient access consumption and storage of contents requested by users.

Consequently there is a need for a method for authoring data regarding contents i.e. metadata so that as users demand various types of contents in a communication system e.g. digital broadcasting system the users are enabled to access consume and store the desired contents efficiently i.e. the users are provided with various types of user friendly contents.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to an apparatus and a method for authoring data in a communication system.

Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to an apparatus and a method for authoring metadata regarding contents in a digital broadcasting system.

Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to an apparatus and a method for authoring metadata regarding various contents so that in conformity with user demands for various contents the users are provided with various contents in a user friendly manner in a digital broadcasting system.

Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to an apparatus and a method for authoring metadata regarding various types of contents which are to be provided to users in a digital broadcasting system based on a DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting ECG Electronic Content Guide XML eXtensible Markup Language .

Other objects and advantages of the present invention can be understood by the following description and become apparent with reference to the embodiments of the present invention. Also it is obvious to those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains that the objects and advantages of the present invention can be realized by the means as claimed and combinations thereof.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for authoring data in a communication system includes an extraction unit configured to receive media corresponding to contents and extract contents information regarding the contents from the received media a generation unit configured to generate a DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting ECG Electronic Content Guide XML eXtensible Markup Language based metadata comprising the extracted contents information and a processing unit configured to visualize particulars of the DMB ECG XML based metadata through a user interface and process the user interface so that the DMB ECG XML based metadata is generated and edited on a template.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method for authoring data in a communication system includes receiving media corresponding to contents extracting detailed information regarding the contents and segments from the received media processing a user interface regarding the contents generating and editing each of ECG metadata segment metadata package metadata and DMB AF metadata comprising the detailed information regarding contents and segments based on visualization on a template through the user interface and authoring DMB ECG XML based metadata through the basic ECG metadata the segment metadata the package metadata and the DMB AF metadata.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described below in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be constructed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present invention to those skilled in the art. Throughout the disclosure like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the various figures and embodiments of the present invention.

The present invention proposes an apparatus and a method for authoring data particularly metadata regarding contents so that users are provided with various types of contents in conformity with their demands i.e. in a user friendly manner in a communication system e.g. a digital broadcasting system. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when users are provided with various types of DMB contents in conformity with user demands for various contents in a digital broadcasting system e.g. a DMB system information i.e. metadata regarding the DMB contents is authored based on a DMB ECG XML including a DMB EPG. Those skilled in the art can understand that although authoring of metadata regarding contents in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to a digital broadcasting system as an exemplary communication system the apparatus and method for authoring data proposed by the present invention are also applicable to other types of communication systems.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention metadata regarding contents e.g. DMB ECG metadata is authored so that as users request various types of contents the users are enabled to access consume and store desired contents efficiently i.e. the users are provided with various types of contents in a user friendly manner. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when metadata is authored previously authored metadata is re edited and authored to support reusability of metadata. In addition metadata regarding unit programs of contents are generated and interlinked to support media processing of metadata. Furthermore tools for segment metadata authoring support automation of metadata authoring visualization of metadata particulars and editing on a visualized template.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when information metadata regarding contents is authored based on a DMB ECG XML the DMB ECG XML includes a service function provided by a DMB EPG and searching and browsing segment by segment within contents programs enable users to access consume and store desired contents more efficiently thereby providing an improved service in the DMB EPG. The DMB ECG XML includes a file format of DMB AF Application Format which couples all contents particulars in a single format. Metadata authored based on a DMB ECG XML in this manner provides users with custom made services and in order to describe detailed information regarding contents a new type of metadata is generated or previously generated metadata is re edited to author metadata. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention contents related DMB ECG metadata and DMB AF are authored to provide user friendly contents.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention as terminals for receiving contents and providing users with them tend to have improved capabilities for network access large amount storage and data processing metadata regarding contents is authored based on a DMB ECG XML so as to provide more diversified user friendly contents through such terminals and metadata authored in this manner is transmitted to terminals through multiplexing streams i.e. multiplexed with contents streams and transmitted. Specifically in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention in order to satisfy user demands for new services and to activate DMB services personalized broadcast consumption environments which combine DMB and communication networks are used to provide contents optimized for users needs preferences and environments. In order to provide such a new type of broadcasting service which combines contents and data services a user tailored watching broadcasting service based on metadata is provided. Users of this service can efficiently search acquire and consume desired contents through terminals which are configured for various types of access at any place and time. To this end in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention metadata is authored based on a DMB ECG XML.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention as contents are provided through metadata authored based on a DMB ECG XML an extended service is provided while functionally incorporating a DMB EPG based service so as to enable users to access consume and store desired contents more efficiently through searching and browsing segment by segment within programs. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a broadcasting service is provided as a specific type of the above mentioned extended service to enable watchers to consume contents at any desired time i.e. regardless of the broadcasting schedule using a PDR Personal Digital Recorder having a storage device by default. In order to provide such a broadcasting service a DMB ECG XML for authoring metadata regarding contents includes and supports a file format of DMB AF which couples all contents particulars in a single format. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention contents related DMB ECG metadata and DMB AF are authored based on a DMB ECG XML so as to provide various types of contents in a user friendly manner. An apparatus for authoring metadata regarding contents in a communication system e.g. a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to the metadata authoring apparatus is configured to during authoring of metadata re edit and author previously authored metadata to support reusability of metadata generate and interlink metadata regarding unit programs of contents to support media processing of metadata support automation of metadata authoring through tools for segment metadata authoring and support visualization of metadata particulars and editing on a visualized template. To this end the metadata authoring apparatus includes an extraction unit configured to extract information regarding contents e.g. TOC Table of Contents from media of various contents which are to be provided to users in conformity with user demands a generation unit configured to generate an XML for authoring metadata regarding the contents a management unit configured to manage metadata regarding the contents an interlink unit configured to support interlink between the generation unit and the management unit configured to manage the metadata for authoring of the metadata a processing unit configured to process interface during authoring of the metadata and a display unit configured to display metadata authoring environments.

The extraction unit is configured to receive media extract information regarding contents e.g. TOC from the received media and extract corresponding detailed information regarding contents i.e. segments of contents. Specifically when the extraction unit receives metadata which is stored in a memory or database from the memory or database as media it extracts the contents information and outputs the information to the generation unit . Alternatively upon receiving contents to be provided to users as media the extraction unit extracts a TOC and segments as the contents information and outputs the TOC and segments to the generation unit .

For example the extraction unit extracts information regarding various types of contents requested by users e.g. detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types so that these pieces of information is included in metadata. In other words the extraction unit is configured to extract detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types as information regarding various types of contents requested by users.

The extraction unit is configured to extract the identifier and physical location of contents so that the metadata includes a content referencing XML which is used to acquire the physical location of contents e.g. the broadcasting time and portal URL Uniform Resource Locator of the contents from the identifier of contents.

The generation unit is configured to receive segments extracted by the extraction unit as well as a schema XML and generate and output an XML and a schema XML . Specifically the generation unit receives previously authored metadata i.e. DMB ECG XML based metadata through the extraction unit as a metadata document. The generation unit also receives a schema XML as a schema document. The generation unit generates new metadata using the received data or re edits the previously authored metadata and outputs an XML as DMB ECG XML based metadata. The previously authored metadata is stored in the memory or database and is inputted to the generation unit through the extraction unit as media .

The generation unit is configured to generate information regarding various types of contents requested by users e.g. detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types. The generation unit is configured to generate metadata including a content referencing XML which is used to acquire the physical location of contents such as the broadcasting time and URL of contents from the identifier of contents. The generation unit is configured to generate metadata based on a DMB ECG XML. Specifically the generation unit generates and edits basic ECG metadata segment metadata package metadata and DMB AF metadata to author final metadata based on the DMB ECG XML.

The memory or database is configured to store previously authored metadata in a DOM Document Object Model structure so that metadata information regarding metadata of the DOM structure is inputted to the generation unit through the extraction unit as media . The generation unit is configured to use the metadata inputted in this manner segments extracted by the extraction unit and an inputted schema XML to generate new metadata or re edit previous metadata as described above thereby outputting an XML as current metadata. That is the generation unit is configured to perform the function of inputting outputting and processing metadata.

The processing unit is configured to process each interface when the authoring apparatus is performing operations for authoring metadata based on a DMB ECG XML. Specifically the processing unit processes GUI Graphical User Interface to support visualization of particulars of metadata and editing on a visualized template. The GUI will be described later in more detail with reference to and detailed description thereof will be omitted herein.

The management unit is configured to manage metadata authored based on a DMB ECG XML. Specifically the management unit stores metadata in the memory or database as described above and manages the stored metadata. DMB ECG XML based metadata is stored in the memory or database under the metadata management of the management unit and is provided to a terminal or network through multiple streams as metadata regarding contents requested by users. The DMB ECG XML based metadata is as described above multiplexed with contents streams and transmitted.

The interlink unit is configured to support interlink between modules performing respective functions when the authoring apparatus performs operations for authoring metadata based on a DMB ECG XML such as input output of an XML and a schema XML interlink of media GUI interlink with user interface and XML API Application Programming Interface call. Specifically the interlink unit interlinks with the management unit so that metadata authored based on a DMB ECG XML is stored in the memory or database and the metadata stored in this manner is provided to a terminal or network.

The display unit is configured to visualize and output particulars of metadata and authoring of metadata through the GUI as illustrated in .

As such the metadata authoring apparatus in a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention performs the functions of metadata input output metadata processing segment extraction and editing and metadata interlink to author metadata e.g. DMB ECG metadata. The apparatus stores the authored metadata in the memory or database and transmits the metadata to a terminal or network through multiplexed streams. The metadata input output function includes receiving a metadata document and a schema document and outputting finally authored metadata. The metadata processing function includes visualizing metadata information regarding metadata of DOM structure which is stored in the memory or database through the GUI and modifying the metadata information based on an editing message which has been inputted through interlink with the GUI or media . The segment editing is performed through input output of an XML as metadata GUI interlink media interlink and XML API call. Specifically when the generation unit generates new metadata or re edits previous metadata to author metadata based on the DMB ECG XML the generation unit edits segments of contents as detailed information regarding contents extracted by the extraction unit . The DMB ECG XML based metadata authored by such generation or re editing is stored in the memory or database through interlink with the management unit and then transmitted to a terminal or network. The DMB ECG XML structure of metadata in a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to the DMB ECG XML includes detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types these pieces of information being provided in conformity with user demands for various contents by the digital broadcasting system. The DMB ECG XML also includes a content referencing XML which is used to acquire the physical location of contents such as the broadcasting time and URL of contents from the identifier of contents.

More specifically the DMB ECG XML includes TV Anytime metadata as a metadata schema with limited TV Anytime and DMB AF metadata having a partially modified structure of the TV Anytime metadata . The DMB ECG XML which incorporates functions provided by the DMB EPG as described above includes a DAB Digital Audio Broadcasting EPG and a DMB EPG which is an extension of the DAB EPG conforming to DMB environments.

The DMB AF metadata is obtained by adding and modifying the TV Anytime metadata in conformity with DMB environments and file data transmission environments. The DMB AF metadata has a structure partially modified so that unlike the schema structure of the TV Anytime metadata the segment information table is positioned below package table package item component elements. The DMB ECG XML has a structure including necessary elements extended so that the schema structure of the DMB AF metadata includes information regarding contents. The DMB ECG XML which includes functions of the DMB EPG as described above supports DMB EPG service provision.

The DMB ECG XML has a DMB ECG main type as the uppermost root and includes as lower items of the DMB ECG main type a program information table for describing detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting contents and on demand contents a group information table for describing contents group information a program location table for describing contents organization information a service information table for describing channel information portal service information and the like a segment information table for describing information regarding contents for each time period and a coupon table for describing information regarding electronic coupons for facilitating contents consumption. The DMB ECG XML includes as lower items of the DMB ECG main type a package table for packaging various types or kinds of contents to be consumed under various conditions a user description for systematically describing the user s contents watching history preference and the like a classification scheme table for systematically classifying terms expressing genres or contents types and a copyright notice table for notifying of copyrights of contents and the like.

The DMB ECG XML has a layer structure extended from the DMB AF as described above. In this connection the package table the user description the classification scheme table and the copyright notice table belong to parts defined by the DMB AF while the program information table the group information table the program location table the service information table the segment information table and the coupon table are extensions from the DMB AF. Metadata based on the DMB ECG XML includes as basic parts of the DMB AF the package table the user description the classification scheme table and the copyright notice table and includes as extensions of the DMB AF the program information table the group information table the program location table the service information table the segment information table and the coupon table .

Based on a DMB ECG XML of the above mentioned structure metadata regarding contents conforming to user demands for various contents is authored and then stored. When the next metadata is authored new metadata is generated based on the DMB ECG XML or the stored previous metadata is re edited to author DMB ECG XML based metadata.

That is the authoring apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention generates and edits metadata based on the above mentioned DMB ECG XML to author final metadata so as to include information regarding various types of contents requested by users specifically detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types. The metadata authored in this manner is transmitted through streams multiplexed through GUI and interlink i.e. multiplexed with contents streams and transmitted. Authoring of metadata based on the DMB ECG XML in a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to the metadata authoring apparatus constructs a user interface so as to generate and edit basic ECG metadata segment metadata package metadata and DMB AF metadata according to functional characteristics of elements provided by contents using information regarding various types of contents requested by users e.g. detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types. The metadata authoring apparatus also generates and edits basic ECG metadata segment metadata package metadata and DMB AF metadata including information regarding various types of contents requested by users through a user interface e.g. GUI to author final DMB ECG XML based metadata.

More specifically the metadata authoring apparatus generates and edits basic ECG metadata so as to provide a template based intuitive data editing environment through a user interface e.g. GUI as illustrated in . The metadata authoring apparatus generates basic ECG metadata based on a DMB ECG XML and the basic ECG metadata generated in this manner is visually expressed on the display unit through the GUI to enable easy editing. Furthermore according to application of metadata authored based on the DMB ECG XML the metadata authoring apparatus sets elements of metadata that are frequently used in the metadata and uses the display unit to display the data type or attribute value of the elements set in this manner through a predetermined template window so that during authoring of metadata particulars to be included in the metadata are easily added to the metadata or modified.

That is the metadata authoring apparatus generates and edits basic ECG metadata as illustrated in to author DMB ECG XML based metadata. When the generated modified or edited DMB ECG XML based metadata is stored in the memory or database the metadata authoring apparatus automatically converts the metadata into an XML document. The converted XML document i.e. metadata includes descriptions of brief information regarding respective programs of contents detailed information A V Audio Video attribute information service channel information and the like.

The metadata authoring apparatus referring to receives respective program contents streams regarding contents as media automatically detects basic boundary shots from the received respective program contents streams through the user interface and aligns the detected basic boundary shots into a story which has been requested regarding contents to generate segments. Specifically the extraction unit receives the above mentioned respective program contents streams as media and detects basic boundary shots through a user interface e.g. GUI.

After the detection of basic boundary shots from respective program contents streams and the story alignment to generate segments the metadata authoring apparatus referring to groups the generated segments using a template displayed through the user interface e.g. GUI and describes detailed information regarding respective segments specifically segment ID Identifier CRID Content Reference ID time information and segment particulars so that the metadata includes the described particulars and information. Therefore the metadata authoring apparatus generates information regarding segments and information regarding segment groups respectively and the generated information regarding segments and segment groups is used as lower segment elements in the component elements within the package or the segment information table elements. As such the metadata authoring apparatus generates and edits segment metadata including information regarding segments and segment groups to author DMB ECG XML based metadata.

The metadata authoring apparatus referring to generates and edits package metadata through the user interface. Specifically the metadata authoring apparatus generates a structure of items and components which have been requested regarding contents from a tree structure visualized through a user interface e.g. GUI. The metadata authoring apparatus then acquires and describes the generated items and components as well as basic ECG information and segment information from the template to generate metadata including the described particulars and information. That is the metadata authoring apparatus generates and adds structural information regarding the package metadata through the items components basic ECG information and segment information and generates and edits package metadata through the user interface as illustrated in thereby authoring DMB ECG XML based metadata.

The metadata authoring apparatus referring to generates and edits DMB AF metadata through the user interface. Specifically the metadata authoring apparatus constructs a user interface which is used to generate and edit the DMB AF metadata to be similar to the user interface used to generate and edit package metadata described above. Considering that the DMB AF schema has a different root element from the ECG metadata the metadata authoring apparatus processes the DMB ECG and DMB AF as separate schemas respectively to generate DMB AF metadata. That is the metadata authoring apparatus generates and edits DMB AF metadata as illustrated in to author DMB ECG XML based metadata.

After authoring DMB ECG XML based metadata in this manner the metadata authoring apparatus verifies the validity of the authored metadata through the user interface as illustrated in . When it is confirmed that the authored DMB ECG XML based metadata is not valid the metadata authoring apparatus visually expresses the location of erroneous elements through the GUI on the display unit . Consumption of DMB ECG XML based metadata in a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to DMB ECG XML based metadata authored through the above mentioned process is multiplexed with A V data and transmitted i.e. as streams multiplexed with contents streams to a terminal or network through a transmission server. After receiving the DMB ECG XML based metadata transmitted as multiplexed streams the terminal consumes the received DMB ECG XML based metadata as illustrated in . Specifically the metadata authoring apparatus authors the DMB ECG XML based metadata for a predetermined period of time with regard to a predetermined DMB channel selects a predetermined program to extract segment information generates related segment group information based on the extracted segment information and generates program group information based on considering of relevance between programs. The metadata authoring apparatus also generates package metadata and DMB AF metadata in order to verify the package service and DMB AF circulation service and the generated metadata is transmitted to the terminal through a bidirectional server as streams multiplexed with A V data. The DMB AF metadata is generated as a DMB AF file together with various types of DMB AF information and the generated DMB AF file is transmitted to the terminal through the bidirectional server.

After receiving the DMB ECG XML based metadata transmitted as streams multiplexed with A V data i.e. multiplexed with contents streams and transmitted the terminal consumes the DMB ECG metadata or basic ECG metadata as illustrated in consumes the segment metadata as illustrated in and consumes the DMB AF metadata as illustrated in . The terminal is provided with a service of circulating and consuming contents based on information of metadata in mobile communication network environments of the digital broadcasting system. That is the terminal is provided with contents by receiving and consuming the XML based metadata regarding contents. A process of authoring metadata in a digital broadcasting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to the metadata authoring apparatus receives previous metadata which is stored in the memory or database or contents as media at step S. The metadata authoring apparatus extracts a TOC from the received media and thus extracts segments of contents as detailed information regarding the contents at step S. Specifically the metadata authoring apparatus extracts the TOC so that the metadata includes information regarding various types of contents requested by users e.g. detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types. That is the metadata authoring apparatus extracts information regarding various types of contents requested by users specifically detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types.

The metadata authoring apparatus processes the user interface e.g. GUI to generate and edit DMB ECG XML based metadata including information regarding various types of contents requested by users specifically detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information information regarding packages for expressing various types of contents as a whole information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users and information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types at step S.

The metadata authoring apparatus generates and edits basic ECG metadata segment metadata package metadata and DMB AF metadata through the user interface to author final DMB ECG XML based metadata at step S. The authored DMB ECG XML based metadata is stored in the memory or database and is multiplexed with contents streams and transmitted to a terminal or network.

The authored DMB ECG XML based metadata includes detailed information regarding contents such as broadcasting programs and on demand programs contents group information contents organization information channel information portal service information information regarding contents for each time period electronic coupon information package information information regarding contents watching history and preferences of users information regarding schemes of classifying terms describing genres or contents types and the like. The authored DMB ECG XML based metadata includes a content referencing XML which is used to acquire the physical location of contents such as the broadcasting time and URL of contents from the identifier of contents. In other words the DMB ECG XML based metadata includes TV Anytime metadata DMB AF metadata DAB EPG and DMB EPG. That is the DMB ECG XML based metadata has a DMB ECG main type as the uppermost root and includes a program information table a group information table a program location table a service information table a segment information table a coupon table a package table a user description a classification scheme table and a copyright notice table.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments of the present invention metadata regarding various types of contents which are to be provided in conformity with user demands in a communication system is authored based on a DMB ECG XML so that the users are provided with user friendly contents and can efficiently access consume and store various types of desired contents. In addition authoring of various pieces of information i.e. metadata regarding contents based on a DMB ECG XML guarantees provision of more diversified plentiful user friendly contents.

While the present invention has been described with respect to the specific embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

