---

title: Robotic submersible cleaning system
abstract: A cleaning system includes a chassis supporting a propulsion system for propelling the cleaning system across a surface. At least one sensor of a first type is coupled to the chassis, and a surface engagement mechanism is configured to maintain the cleaning system coupled to the surface as the propulsion system propels the cleaning system across the surface. A cleaning device is coupled to the chassis and configured to abrade the fouling from the surface, and a controller coupled to the chassis and in signal communication with the propulsion system and the first sensor. The controller is configured to receive a signal from the at least one sensor of the first type and control the propulsion system in response to the signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08506719&OS=08506719&RS=08506719
owner: SeaRobotics Corporation
number: 08506719
owner_city: Palm Beach Gardens
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 263 680 filed on Nov. 23 2009 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract N00167 05 M 0362 awarded by NAVSEA NSWC Carderock Division contract N00014 06 C 0133 awarded by the Office of Naval Research contract N65538 08 M 0158 awarded by the Naval SeaLogistics Center SBIR and contract N00014 09 C 0852 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The disclosed system and method relate to anti fouling of surfaces disposed in a fluid. More specifically the disclosed system and method relate to a robotic cleaning system for cleaning a surface disposed in a fluid.

Fouling i.e. the accumulation of unwanted material of underwater ship hulls significantly degrades the performance of the ship by increasing hydrodynamic drag which reduces the ship s maximum speed and fuel efficiency. Consequently operating costs for ships with greater fouling on their hulls are greater than for ships with less fouling on their hulls.

It has been estimated that the Navy will save 30M 60M per year in propulsive fuel as a result of cleaning biofouling. Current Navy waterborne hull cleaning methods include the deployment of remotely operated vehicles ROV that are extremely large approximately the size of a single person submarine to remove the biofouling by aggressive cleaning methods. Although this method is more efficient than dry docking the vessels for partial or full removal and replacement of the vessel s underwater hull coating system the method is still not ideal due to the high cost of the ROVs and their aggressive cleaning methods that frequently results in the release of toxins Cu and Zn into the surrounding waters.

A cleaning system is disclosed that includes a chassis supporting a propulsion system for propelling the cleaning system across a surface. At least one sensor of a first type is coupled to the chassis and a surface engagement mechanism is configured to maintain the cleaning system coupled to the surface as the propulsion system propels the cleaning system across the surface. A cleaning device is coupled to the chassis and configured to abrade the fouling from the surface and a controller coupled to the chassis and in signal communication with the propulsion system and the first sensor. The controller is configured to receive a signal from the at least one sensor of the first type and control the propulsion system in response to the signal.

Also disclosed is a method of cleaning a surface of a hull disposed under a surface of a liquid. The method includes a determining a first frequency with which to clean a surface of the hull b coupling a cleaning system according to claim to the surface of the hull and c powering on the cleaning system. Steps b and c are repeated in accordance with the first frequency.

In some embodiments a cleaning system for cleaning hull of a vehicle beneath a surface of a liquid in which the hull is submerged includes a chassis a drive system supported by the chassis configured to move the cleaning system along the hull and a surface engagement mechanism configured to maintain the cleaning system coupled to the hull of the vehicle as the propulsion system propels the cleaning system across the hull. A first sensing system is supported by the chassis and configured to measure a level of chlorophyll and determine a level of fouling on the hull based on the level. A cleaning device is coupled to the chassis and configured to abrade the biofouling from the hull as the cleaning system and a controller is coupled to the chassis and in signal communication with the propulsion system the first sensing system and a plurality of navigation sensors. The controller is configured to receive data from the first sensing system and the plurality of navigation sensors and control the propulsion system in response to the signal received from the sensor.

A method of cleaning a surface of a hull disposed under a surface of a liquid is also disclosed in which a cleaning device is coupled to a chassis and maintains in contact with the surface of the hull using a surface engagement mechanism supported by the chassis. The chassis is propelled across the surface of the hull by a propulsion system supported by the chassis. The surface of the hull is abraded by a cleaning device coupled to the chassis.

Thresholds established for requiring waterborne hull cleaning seek to balance the need to maintain operational readiness and lower life cycle costs while minimizing the release of coating constituents and biofouling into surrounding waters. A full hull cleaning of antifouling coatings is prescribed when the foul rating for the hull is 40 or greater over 20 or more of the hull s area. Due to ship availabilities and operational schedules underwater UW hull cleaning cannot always occur when fouling is at the minimum level to initiate a cleaning. In addition frequent cleaning with current methods will produce excessive wear of the AF paint resulting in premature failure. A review of hull cleaning records conducted by NSWCCD indicates that approximately 26.5 of ships painted with the Navy s current ablative antifouling AF coatings that undergo hull cleaning have heavy fouling fouling rating equal to or greater than 80 on some portion of their hull. Reducing the mean level of fouling on active ships will generate additional operational savings and environmental benefits that are beyond that achieved using current hull cleaning methods and best management practices.

Effective cleaning of early base fouling i.e. slime or bio film layer on submerged underwater ship hulls may minimize the release of toxicants into surrounding waters by reducing the periodicity of more aggressive brush type hull cleanings. The approach will also significantly reduce the colonization and transport of unwanted fouling species by disrupting the attachment process. The HullBUG cleaning system described herein encompasses technology for a cleaning device surface adhesion cleaning capability hull navigation path planning data telemetry internal power power replenishment and operations support i.e. launch and recovery monitoring status and recharging . Additionally the HullBUG cleaning system is optimized for vehicle size and vehicle technology life expectancy to meet the targeted objectives.

One or more hull crawlers or bugs are provided and configured to operate in a coordinated fashion using various means of assessing their relative position and operating status. Attachment of the bugs to the hull or other surface is achieved through pressure differential methods and magnetic attachment. Magnetic attachment offers low energy consumption and is implemented to not impart an unacceptable magnetic signature to the steel hull for Navy applications. Pressure differential methods alone require energy and so may result in the loss of a cleaning vehicle should power be lost. This HullBUG cleaning system may use a pressure differential attachment magnetic attachment or both methods for hull attachment.

In one embodiment the HullBUG cleaning system is a small man portable vehicle of approximately 0.5 meters 0.6 meters 0.3 meters and weighing approximately 16 kg. As shown in it is comprised of an internal structure a single or multitude of attraction mechanisms propulsion system one or more computer systems an energy storage module a sensing and navigation system and a cleaning apparatus .

A multiprocessor computer system provides an autonomous cleaning capability. On board computers control the wheel drive system or propulsion system the attraction mechanism monitor system health and provide for vehicle guidance. One or more pressure sensors proximity sensors and various optical sensors provide feedback allowing the cleaning system to transit in an optimum manner. Through the combination of iso barometric transit surface fouling monitoring gravity vector monitoring optical flow sensing and intelligent vision the system s intelligent controller is able to optimize the cleaning rate and provide efficient full hull coverage.

The HullBUG system can be configured totally autonomous with a tether or with a wireless system. The tethered configuration and the wireless configuration allow the operator to view video feed back of the cleaning operation as it proceeds. The tethered configuration and the wireless configuration also allow the system to be used for real time monitoring of video inspection. In the totally autonomous configuration a controller can be located inside or otherwise coupled to the chassis of the HullBUG while in the tethered and wireless configurations the controller may be remotely located.

In one embodiment a controller is located inside or otherwise coupled to the chassis of the cleaning system as shown in and allows for totally autonomous operation. One example of an architecture of controller is illustrated in . Controller may be a computer or other computing device or devices that may be configured to send and receive data and perform the functions described herein. As shown in controller may include one or more processors which may be connected to a wired or wireless communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar local area network LAN or wide area network WAN . Processor may be any central processing unit microprocessor micro controller computational device or like device. Processor s may be configured to run one or more multitasking operating systems.

Controller may include a main memory such as a random access memory RAM . Controller may also include or be in communication with a secondary memory such as for example a hard disk drive and or removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive or the like. The removable storage drive may read from and or write to a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit may be a floppy disk magnetic tape CD ROM DVD ROM optical disk blu ray disk ZIP drive and the like which may be written to and or read by removable storage drive . Removable storage unit may include a machine readable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In some embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into controller such as a removable storage device and a removable storage interface or socket . An example of such a removable storage device and socket includes but is not limited to a USB flash drive and associated USB port respectively. Other removable storage devices and interfaces that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage device to controller may be used.

Controller may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between controller and external devices e.g. the sensors described below that provide data for aiding in navigation and biofouling detection. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a wireless communication card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or any other signal capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path or channel. The path or channel that carries the signals may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and the like.

In another embodiment a remotely coupled controller is connected to the cleaning system through a wireless communication link as shown in . In another embodiment a remotely coupled controller is connected to the cleaning system through a tether as shown in . In the tethered configuration the HullBUG is connected to the surface support station through a tether to an operator interface system as shown in . This configuration may be used for development purposes and when operator feedback is desirable for inspection and or guidance purposes. The long tether cable is managed using a Tether Management System TMS . The TMS uses a slip ring assembly to allow for reeling the cable in and out. The TMS cable drum has a wireless communication system for transferring commands to the TMS from the topside computer and then down the tether to the vehicle. Similarly the vehicle can send communications and video back up the tether across the wireless link and to the topside computer where it can be displayed. Power can be supplied to the cleaning system through the tether from a power supply located within the TMS. This power supply can recharge the energy storage module located within the vehicle and it can power the vehicle for operation.

The cleaning system attaches to the underwater surface with a surface engagement mechanism which may include magnetic attraction negative pressure based attraction or both. In one embodiment the surface engagement mechanism includes one or more magnets attached to the bottom of the chassis as shown in . The magnets are sized to maximize the attractive force while minimizing the magnetic residual imparted into certain Navy hulls. The magnetic attraction force provides a passive method of holding the system to the hull allowing maximum endurance on a fixed energy supply when transiting over a ferrous metal substrate that is within a prescribed proximity to the magnets.

In another embodiment the surface engagement mechanism includes a magnet or group of magnets integrated into the wheels or tracks as shown in . A variety of magnetic arrangements are implemented including powerful ring magnets and more sophisticated multi pole magnet arrangements. For example the multi pole magnet assemblies may include up to 24 pole pairs and generate a minimal residual magnetic signature. These magnet assemblies are further built into wheel assemblies and may be similar to the rotors used in permanent magnet brushless DC motors.

In another embodiment the HullBUG cleaning system utilizes a negative pressure mechanism for attraction to the hull shown in . This negative pressure source is comprised of a rotary mechanism which provides an attractive force due to the dynamic motion of the fluid flow it generates. An example of such a negative pressure source is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 194 032 which issued Mar. 16 1993.

In another embodiment the cleaning system attaches to the surface through the use of thrusters that accelerate the fluid from a first side of the thruster to a second side of the thruster as shown in . An example of such commercially available thruster is the Model HPDC 1509 available from SeaRobotix Inc. of San Diego Calif. One skilled in the art will understand that other thrusters for use on Remote Operated Vehicles and utilize propellers to accelerate the fluid and provide an axial force may be implemented. The negative pressure based attraction can be used when transiting over non ferrous substrates as well as providing a beneficial relationship between attractive force standoff distance. The negative pressure mechanisms are more tolerance of standoff distance than the magnetic attractors.

In one embodiment the propulsion system includes one or more wheels as shown in . As shown in a set of four driven wheels can be implemented although one skilled in the art will understand that fewer or more wheels may be used. The wheels are driven in a tank like fashion to achieve maneuvering. This system offers excellent traction and maneuvering.

In another embodiment the propulsion system includes tracks fitted to the drive system for use on hulls where crossing the angled intersection of relatively flat surfaces is required such as a chine on the underwater surface of a ship and is shown in .

The cleaning system is configured with one or more cleaning devices for removing the biofilm from a surface such as a surface of a hull of a boat. The system may include a sensor described below for measurement of the presence of biofilm and so the controller can control intensity of the cleaning action by controlling the speed of the cleaning device motor or pump as well as the applied pressure to the surface in response to the measured fouling level. In one embodiment the cleaning device includes multiple vertical axis brushes as shown in . As shown in the rotary brushes are positioned so that there is overlap of the cleaning action in the direction of forward motion . A motor drives the brushes through a gear system so that each brush spins about its respective central axis. The bristles are positioned such that they are in contact with the surface of the ship and remove any biofilm see that may be on the surface.

In another embodiment the cleaning mechanism utilized in the system can take the form of a forward rotating drum with horizontal axis of rotation as shown in such as the type of drum that is used in certain street sweepers. The cleaning device may also include one or more a rubber flaps or squeegees disposed on a horizontal axis and driven by a motor .

In another embodiment the cleaning system uses multiple jets to remove the biofilm see as shown in . Multiple jets are used so that each jet can be kept as close as possible to the surface to be cleaned without hanging on obstacles. A minimum distance is desirable due to the loss of jet velocity as the jet passes through the ambient fluid. A small pump is used to take in ambient fluid and create sufficient pressure to allow removal of the biofilm. The jets are angled forward slightly and may include an oscillation mechanism as is typically found on industrial pressure washers. The jets like all of the cleaning mechanisms can be turned on by the controller during those times that the measured level of biofilm fouling is above some threshold.

One or more sensors are communicatively coupled to controller and provide data and information to controller for navigating the cleaning system along the surface. A unique sensing system is incorporated that can detect and measure the fouling level on the surface of the hull. This sensing system can provide a quantitative measurement of the extent and intensity of the biofilm. The sensing system can also provide navigation information to the controller for cleaning optimization. The system includes one or more sensors to detect the interface between a recently cleaned hull section and a hull section exhibiting increased fouling because it is not yet cleaned. Data collected by the sensing system is provided to the controller which is used in a navigation algorithm thereby allowing for optimized area coverage of the hull. The sensing system utilizes a set of light sources and light detectors to identify line of demarcation between the cleaned hull surface versus The fouled hull surface by measuring the relative level of chlorophyll A present in the biofilm. The sensing system has been tested on a barely visible biofilm and was able to detect the difference between the clean surface and the unclean surface.

In one embodiment the sensing system includes a silicon photo diode light detector or array of light detectors that identify the level of chlorophyll present in a biofilm due to phenomena know as fluorescence. Chlorophyll is an indicator of biofilm and therefore measuring the level of chlorophyll provides an indication of the level of fouling. Chlorophyll level can be measured using red light detectors at a typical wavelength of 675 nm by first illuminating the chlorophyll with a blue light emitting diode at a typical wavelength of 480 nm and then measuring the red light returned. One skilled in the art will understand that other wavelengths may be used.

An array of chlorophyll level measuring light detectors enables the determination of the edge separating the fouled area of the surface and the unfouled or cleaned area of the underwater surface . This information is provided to controller and utilized to guide the cleaning system while propelled along the underwater surface by propulsion system .

In another embodiment one or more optical flow sensors such as for example the type of sensor utilized in an optical mouse is configured to optically detect movement of the cleaning system relative to the surface as shown in as will be understood by one skilled in the art. Optical flow sensors output data identifying the relative change in position from the previous position. This information is provided to controller of the cleaning system to establish the distance traveled from the starting point. In the embodiment described here the optics have been optimized for use in the underwater environment and configured to allow a greater standoff distance to the surface. The output of the sensor is an accurate measurement of translation on the two dimensional plane of the ship s hull. By using two optical flow sensors one on each side of the HullBUG the translation information can be used to estimate rotation as well. The precise translation and rotation measurements allow for extended excursions of the HullBUG on the ship s hull or other underwater surface while maintaining accurate knowledge of the present position.

A pressure sensor may also be implemented and used to estimate the submerged depth of the cleaning system as shown in . The depth information is provided to controller which uses the provided data to make the cleaning system navigate along a series of parallel paths with each path following an isobar as shown in . In order to follow an isobar in an environment where surface waves can cause motions in the navigation the measurement of the gravity vector using the accelerometer described below can be used as an inner control loop with the depth controller as an outer control loop a technique understood by one skilled in the art. In addition to the pressure sensor and corresponding depth information allowing isobar following mission paths the depth information can be used as a condition for the completion of a transit leg along a navigation path that traverses a change in depth.

A flow chart for the control logic of controller using the sensor information such as from the pressure sensor described previously and a SONAR to develop a complete navigation strategy for cleaning an entire ship is shown in . The mission begins with the operator placing the vehicle on the side of the ship at the waterline near the bow . The HullBUG has a pressure sensor that enables a change in ambient pressure when the HullBUG is below the surface of the water to be detected. Additionally the pressure sensors provide signals to controller that engages the attraction device and activates the propulsion system such that the HullBUG cleaning system is propelled along the underwater surface at a constant depth towards the stern of the ship . The HullBUG cleaning system continues along the isobar until the SONAR detects a feature that will prevent the continuation of the current leg of the mission such as the stern of the ship at block . Once the feature is detected the HullBUG turns down towards the keel and drives a distance less than the width of the HullBUG chassis . The HullBUG cleaning system uses a depth measurement to check that the current depth is still less than the maximum depth of the side of the ship which may be known a priori and stored in a computer readable storage medium such as for example main memory and or secondary memory . Alternatively the mission may be terminated using an accelerometer to measure the pitch and roll of the cleaning system and then use the change in the pitch roll as the cleaning system reaches the turn of the bilge of a ship. The HullBUG then turns back in the direction of the bow and proceeds at a depth greater than the depth of the previous leg and parallel to the previous leg . The HullBUG cleaning system continues in the same fashion with parallel mission legs until the depth as measured by the pressure sensor indicates that the maximum safe depth has been reached at which point the HullBUG cleaning system turns and drives up back to the waterline and waits for recovery or relocates to the beginning of another section of the underwater surface to begin cleaning.

In some embodiments a structured laser light SLL sensor which includes a laser line generator and an imaging sensor is mounted on the periphery of the cleaning system and used to detect any feature in the path of the HullBUG cleaning system as illustrated in . In operation laser line generator projects a line onto the surface of the hull . The laser is at a shallow angle to the surface such that irregularities from a smooth straight surface will cause the line to become irregular or discontinuous. The miniature video sensor images the line and signal processing techniques are used to determine the extent of the surface irregularity. The acquired surface information is analyzed by the controller which makes a decision to go over or around the discovered irregularity. The SLL enables the HullBUG cleaning system to navigate around obstacles without actually having to come in contact with the obstacles. A series of the SLL sensors mounted across the front of the cleaning system and allow the optical path to be very short and results in successful operation when operating in very low visibility waters.

One or more flex sensors may be provided on or around chassis of the sensing system for detecting inlets and outlets on the underwater surface into which or out of which fluid flows as shown in . Flex sensors provide a signal proportional to the bend direction and bend radius of the sensor to controller . Flex sensors may be embedded in a flexible rubber matrix mounted on the front of the cleaning system. As the HullBUG cleaning system moves toward an inlet or outlet any fluid flow causes the cantilevered rubber to flex and bend the flex sensors . The signal from the flex sensors is transmitted to controller which adjusts the direction in which the cleaning system is propelled by propulsion system to avoid chassis passing over the inlet or outlet .

Navigation on the hull of the ship is further enhanced with the use of Miniature Acoustic Ranging Sonar MARS as shown in . The MARS is an underwater acoustic ranging SONAR that provides an accurate distance to the hull surface . Since MARS is acoustic in nature the measurement is not dependant on the clarity of the water. By placing 2 or more of these sensors in the front of the vehicle objects or features on the hull can be detected and the vehicle can maneuver around them. These sensors provide a remote sensing so that the vehicle can stop before actual contact is made. With just a single sensor in front of each wheel any holes on the surface can be detected before the wheel can fall in. For example the SONAR sensors periodically transmit a beam of acoustic energy away from chassis and receive a reflected signal echo which undergoes signal processing to determine the presence of and or distance to a wall and or cliff condition i.e. features found on ships and liquid storage tanks such as walls keels and rudders. The SONAR sensors output data to controller including a distance to any such wall or cliff condition. If the distance to a wall or cliff condition is below predetermined threshold controller modifies the direction in which the cleaning system is propelled to avoid the wall and or cliff condition.

The control system in the vehicle can use sensor information such as from the MARS sensor described previously to develop a complete navigation strategy for cleaning an entire ship as shown in . As shown in the mission begins with the operator placing the vehicle on the side of the ship at the waterline near the bow . The cleaning system has a three axis accelerometer within the chassis so the HullBUG can determine what direction is up and what direction is down relative to gravity. An example of a commercially available accelerometer is a model MMA726Q accelerometer available from Freescale Semiconductor of Chandler Ariz. The HullBUG drives down from the waterline until a cliff or wall condition by the MARS sensors . The vehicle then turns 90 degrees or another angle as will be understood by one skilled in the art towards the stern and drives a distance of something less than the width of the HullBUG and then turns back towards the waterline . The HullBUG cleaning system then drives up towards the waterline where the free surface of the water appears as a wall to an acoustic beam . The HullBUG continues in the same fashion with parallel mission legs until the stern is seen as a cliff condition and the mission is completed at which point the HullBUG cleaning system turns and drives up back to the waterline and waits for recovery . The HullBUG can then be placed on the opposite side of the ship and the procedure repeated resulting in the cleaning of the entire ship.

In addition to the features described above additional and somewhat more geometrically complex features such as anodes and cavities may be disposed on surface . An imaging or bathymetric SONAR may be implemented and used to detect these features and the previously described features as shown in . is a flow chart illustrating the logic that the controller will use to implement the SONAR sensor and biofilm sensor. As shown in the mission begins with the operator placing the cleaning system on the side of the ship at the waterline . The HullBUG drives in a direction in some embodiments and arbitrary direction until the SONAR detects some obstruction to the progress of the mission leg . The cleaning system then turns at an arbitrary or fixed angle and proceeds until once again the SONAR detects some obstruction . The HullBUG continues in the same fashion repeatedly until the biofilm sensor no longer detects the presence of a biofilm on the hull surface and the mission is completed at which point the HullBUG turns and drives up back to the waterline and waits for recovery or the start of a new section.

The use of an intelligent camera system may assist in maintaining the positional accuracy as the HullBUG cleaning system navigates along an underwater surface. A camera system or a SONAR system enables feature recognition and thereby allows the absolute position to be updated. In this manner positional accuracy can be maintained through periodic corrections. Software stored in a computer readable storage medium such as for example main memory and or secondary memory in communication with processor of controller may be used to identify such features. One example of such software is ImageGraphics Video available from Dynamic Ventures of Cupertino Calif.

The feature data will be useful even if the visibility is less than a foot. For example in some embodiments when the flex sensors hit some feature and cause the vehicle to stop the camera may be less than four inches away from the feature and able to identify the feature. With the feature recognized the HullBUG cleaning system can accurately update its position on the surface. Where visibility is on the order of a few feet or greater features such as weld lines in the hull can be used as a navigation grid on the hull of the ship. Other features that may augment navigation through the use of the vision system include anodes intakes bilge keels and masker belts.

When used in an autonomous mode the HullBUG cleaning system can be used with a replenishment station attached to the hull surface slightly below the waterline as shown in . This replenishment station is tethered to the surface control station and allows bi directional data communication with the HullBUG along with the ability to recharge on board energy storage . The HullBUG cleaning system can return to the station using an acoustic sensor system that is commercially available for such applications. One example of such an acoustic sensor system is a DPR 275 receiver and UPB 350 pinger which are both available from RJE International of Irvine Calif.

One skilled in the art will understand that the cleaning system described above may be implemented with some or all of the sensor and cleaning systems to provide a high degree of positional accuracy of the cleaning system on the surface. Additionally the sensor systems enable the HullBUG cleaning system to detect and avoid potential obstacles along the surface as well as enable the cleaning system to detect biofouling on the surface. Other sensors including but not limited to yaw rate sensors an odometer and Doppler sensor may also be included in the HullBUG cleaning system.

In addition to be used to clean the underwater surface the HullBUG may also be used to inspect the underwater surface and determine if it needs to be cleaned. For example the HullBUG may periodically navigate the underwater surface based on a predetermined schedule to determine if cleaning is necessary. The predetermined schedule may be based on fouling pressure ambient water temperature available sunlight surface coating type amount of time a ship or surface to be cleaned is mobile speed of ship speed of surrounding water currents and the like. The article The use of proactive in water grooming to improve the performance of ship hull antifouling coatings by Tribou et al. the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference describes how such factors may be taken into account to determine a cleaning schedule. If cleaning is necessary then the HullBUG may clean the surface as described above. If the HullBUG determines that cleaning is not necessary then it may return to its replenishment station and schedule a follow up inspection after a certain time interval e.g. in another few hours days weeks etc. When the HullBUG performs its follow up inspection it will determine if cleaning is necessary by measuring a fouling level which may be based on a chlorophyll level detected by the sensors described above. If cleaning is necessary then the HullBUG cleaning system may update its time between scheduled inspection cleaning times.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be at least partially embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatus for practicing those processes. The methods described herein may also be at least partially embodied in the form of computer program code embodied in tangible machine readable storage media such as RAMs ROMs CD ROMs DVD ROMs BD ROMs hard disk drives flash memories or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the method. When implemented on a general purpose processor the computer program code segments configure the processor to create specific logic circuits. The disclosed systems and methods may alternatively be at least partially embodied in a digital signal processor formed of application specific integrated circuits ASICs for performing a method according to the principles described herein.

Although the system and method have been described in terms of exemplary embodiments they are not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the system and method which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the system and method. Delimiters used in the claims such as a and i should not be taken as imputing any order to the claims but rather are provided only to serve as visual cues to add in the parsing of the claims and as identifiers in the event that a particular portion of the claim is to be later referenced.

