---

title: Agent notification triggered by network access failure
abstract: A method of electronic communication is provided. The method comprises receiving a first call detail record (CDR), where the first call detail record comprises usage information associated with a portable wireless communication device, and the usage information comprises at least a first parameter. Based on the value of the first parameter, a copy of the first call detail record is transmitted to a computer, where the computer does not perform billing functionality. The computer then changes a subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device or changes a provisioning associated with the portable wireless communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688072&OS=08688072&RS=08688072
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08688072
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
Mobile telephones are electronic devices used for mobile voice or data communication based on network connectivity provided by base stations known as cell towers or sites. Electronic devices may be associated with an electronic serial number ESN a mobile equipment identifier MEID an authorization key and other identifying information. A call detail record CDR is a computer record produced by a telephone exchange or switch containing details of a phone call that passed through the exchange.

In an embodiment a method of electronic communication is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a first call detail record CDR where the first call detail record comprises usage information associated with a portable wireless communication device and the usage information comprises at least a first parameter. Based on the value of the first parameter a copy of the first call detail record is transmitted to a computer where the computer does not perform billing functionality. The computer then changes a subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device or changes a provisioning associated with the portable wireless communication device.

In an embodiment a method of electronic communication is disclosed. The method comprises determining that a call origination attempt by a portable communication device fails an authentication procedure where the authentication procedure is based in at least in part on an authentication key. In response to the failed authentication procedure a note is coupled to a subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device where the note indicates the failed authentication procedure. A call associated with the portable wireless communication device is received by customer care and in response to the customer care call the note is presented informing the care agent of the failed authentication procedure.

In an embodiment a method of electronic communication is disclosed. The method comprises creating a call detail record comprising usage information where the usage information indicates that a call origination attempt by a portable wireless communication device has failed. Based on the indication of the failed call origination attempt in the usage information a copy of the call detail record is routed to a communication subscriber account management platform. The subscriber account management platform tags a wireless communication service subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device with an indication of the failed call origination attempt.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

A method of agent notification triggered by wireless network access failure is described. When a user of a portable wireless communication device attempts to place a call over a wireless service provider s network the device may first complete a network access authentication process. If the authentication process fails then the network creates a call detail record CDR specifically pertaining to the authentication failure. The authentication failure call detail record is then copied and sent through the wireless network service provider s enterprise computer systems which direct the call detail record to a subscriber account management system. The subscriber account management system attaches a note about the authentication failure to a subscriber account associated with the device for example a high priority note. When a customer care agent accesses the subscriber account for example when receiving a call from the device to receive care the note is presented notifying the agent of the network access authentication failure for that device enabling the customer care agent to take steps to address the authentication failure problem. In an embodiment when the note is a high priority note displaying the subscriber account automatically causes the note to be displayed and or presented to the customer care agent.

Call detail records are known to those of skill in the art of telecommunications. Call detail records record information about phone calls and or data calls. This information may comprise identities of called party and calling party for example a telephone number of the called party and a telephone number of the calling party. The information may comprise one or more time and date records for example a time and date of a start of a call a time and date of an end of a call a time and a date of another call event. The information may comprise one or more time duration records for example a time duration of the call. The information may identify one or more communication equipment that are involved in completing the call for example one or more local exchange switches one or more mobile switching centers MSCs one or more cell towers and or base transceiver stations one or more routers and or other communication equipment. The information may identify service provider identities for example when the call is routed over more than one service provider network. Call detail records may comprise yet other information as is known to those of skill in the art.

Call detail records may be created by a variety of devices including telecommunication switches such as mobile switching centers local exchange switches and other switches. Call detail records also may be created by other telecommunications devices and or equipment. Call detail records are typically sent to billing rating and archive applications for use in call accounting and billing. Call detail records may be processed to produce a variety of derivative information for example bills for subscribers to pay. Call detail records also may be used to support the operations of the wireless network service provider by providing information on faulty calls network traffic and network errors. The proposed method describes utilizing call detail records also to provide information to the service provider to enable improved customer support. Although a network access authentication failure is described a similar process could be used to provide details of other call information or network events to the service provider. Additionally the subscriber account management system could trigger provisioning or changes to the billing profile of the account as well as adding a note to the account. In an embodiment the note may be a high priority note.

By utilizing and extending existing systems in place for processing call detail records the method describes a direct action without additional aggregation or analysis. When it is received the call detail record flows through the enterprise computer systems of the wireless network provider to the subscriber account management system as opposed to being aggregated or archived and retrieved via post processing. This allows the information to reach the customer care organization as promptly as it can be processed by the subscriber account management system.

Turning now to a communication system is presented. The system comprises a mobile switching center MSC a network mediation layer an enterprise application integration EAI platform a subscriber account management system a subscriber account data store a customer care agent workstation a base transceiver station BTS and a mobile device . The subscriber account data store comprises a plurality of subscriber accounts and an account note attached to a first subscriber account . The mobile switching center is the primary service delivery node for a cellular wireless network responsible for call routing and charging. When a portable wireless communication device fails a wireless network access authentication process the mobile switching center creates an authentication failure call detail record. The mediation layer pulls the authentication failure call detail record from the mobile switching center and based on the content of the call detail record determines it is to be routed to the enterprise application integration platform . The enterprise application integration platform is a central data broker platform and promotes sharing of data between applications in the enterprise. The enterprise application integration platform may utilize an application programming interface API to programmatically transfer the call detail record data to the subscriber account management system . The subscriber account management system takes the call detail record data and attaches the account note to the first subscriber account associated with the authentication failure call detail record. In an embodiment the account note is a high priority note.

The mobile device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or other communication enabled portable electronic device. The base transceiver station provides a communication link to the mobile device and couples the mobile device to a communication network for example any of a data network a voice network a private network a public network the Internet and or a combination of these networks. The base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the mobile device according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another wireless protocol. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated in it is understood that the communication system may comprise any number of base transceiver stations and any number of mobile devices .

The nodes are shown coupled to each other in to clearly illustrate the call detail record flow through a communication network but it is understood that one or more communication links and network nodes not shown may be located in the coupling path. The network nodes shown could alternatively be illustrated coupled to a network cloud thereby abstracting the specific communication links and paths between the nodes. The communication between the nodes may be provided by one or more of private networks public networks the internet voice network and or data network.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first call detail record is received where the first call detail record comprises usage information associated with a portable wireless communication device and where the usage information comprises at least a first parameter. At block based on a value of the first parameter a copy of the first call detail record is transmitted to a computer where the computer does not perform billing functionality. While a call detail record is typically used for call accounting and billing the method describes presenting the call detail record to a computer performing separate functionality. At block the computer changes a subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device and or changes a provisioning associated with the portable wireless communication device . For example the computer could make changes to a billing profile for a customer account trigger provisioning changes on the account or add a note to the account for reference.

In an embodiment the first parameter indicates that the portable wireless communication device failed an authentication procedure during a call origination attempt. The authentication failure prevents the portable wireless communication device from accessing the wireless network. The call which the portable wireless communication device was attempting when the authentication failure occurred may instead be routed directly to a dedicated customer care group trained in authentication issues. In an embodiment the computer changes the subscriber account by coupling a note to the account indicating the failed authentication. The note will allow a customer care agent to be aware of the authentication failure when reviewing the account . In an embodiment the method further comprises a customer care application presenting the note during a subsequent customer care call associated with the portable wireless communication device which could occur at a later time. For example when the note is a high priority note the customer care application may automatically present the note when the associated subscriber account is accessed.

For example a portable wireless communication device user attempts to originate a call on a wireless network. The portable wireless communication device fails an authentication procedure and the call is routed directly to a customer care agent specifically trained in this type of authentication failure. The portable wireless communication device user upon hearing the call arrive somewhere other than the intended called party may hang up and attempt the call again. The second attempted call also may fail authentication and the portable wireless communication device user may decide to wait and report the problem to customer care at a later time.

When calling at this later time to report the failure the customer care call likely may be directed to a non specialized agent who may have a hard time troubleshooting the problem without the contextual information of the authentication failure details. By coupling a note to the subscriber account the method addresses this case of a non specialized customer care agent receiving the call. When the subscriber account is accessed on a customer care agent workstation the account note will be presented to the non specialized care agent who will have the option of forwarding the call to a customer care agent specifically trained in this type of authentication failure or of handling the call himself based on the knowledge of the authentication failure identified by the account note . In an embodiment the customer care system may automatically access the associated subscriber account information as a customer care call is received and the customer care system may automatically route the subject care call based on the presence of the account note to a care agent specifically trained in this type of authentication failure.

Routing a customer care call from a device that has failed authentication to a customer care agent trained in authentication failures not only promotes efficient resolution of network access issues for legitimate wireless network subscribers but also may help handle authentication failures caused by users attempting fraud by accessing the wireless network without subscribing to the network and without paying for service from the wireless service provider. Fraudulent users may be attempting to access the network on portable wireless communication devices that have been stolen or using credentials copied from a legitimate wireless network subscriber and may be willing to lie to the customer care agent to attempt to have access to the wireless network granted to the portable wireless communication device . A customer care agent trained in authentication failures also may receive training in identifying and dealing with potentially fraudulent callers. Another example where specific training may be employed by a customer care agent dealing with authentication failures is the case where the authentication key for a portable wireless communication device is wrong or corrupted even though the user is a subscriber of the wireless network service provider. The customer care agent may be able to provide a temporary workaround to allow network access to the portable wireless communication device until the subscriber can bring the device to a retail store to be repaired or exchanged.

In an embodiment the method further describes receiving a second call detail record where the second call detail record comprises usage information associated with a portable wireless communication device . The usage information comprises at least a second parameter where the second parameter provides a roaming indication. Based on a value of the second parameter a copy of the second call detail record is transmitted to a computer where the computer does not perform billing functionality and the computer sends wireless communication service promotional information to the portable wireless communication device . For example the wireless communication service provider may send a message to the portable wireless communication device roaming on their wireless network which promotes new phones and wireless plans and provides the location of their closest retail store. In an embodiment the portable wireless communication device is one of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA and a media player.

In a method is described. At block a determination is made that a call origination attempt by a portable wireless communication device fails an authentication procedure where the authentication procedure is based at least in part on an authentication key. An authentication key is a piece of data used as at least part of a shared secret data between the portable wireless communication device and the wireless network switch. At block in response to the failed authentication procedure a note is coupled to a subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device where the note indicates the failed authentication procedure. The failed authentication procedure signifies a failed attempt to access a wireless network and a wireless communication service provider may attach a note to the subscriber account associated with the portable wireless communication device . The portable wireless communication device user may call customer care later for assistance to successfully connect to the network and the note will serve as a reference on the subscriber account to help identify the reason the portable wireless communication device is unable to access the wireless network. At block a customer care call associated with the portable wireless communication device is received. At block in response to the customer care call the note is presented to a care agent informing the care agent of the failed authentication procedure. If the portable wireless communication device user calls customer care to report an issue with the portable wireless communication device the customer care agent will bring up the account information associated with the portable wireless communication device on a customer care agent workstation and immediately will be presented with the note and the detail of the failed authentication procedure. This promotes the customer care agent determining what is preventing the device from accessing the wireless network and resolving the problem.

In an embodiment the authentication key is a 20 character key. In an embodiment the authentication procedure is based on processing the authentication key and an electronic serial number ESN and or a mobile equipment identifier MEID of the portable wireless communication device . The authentication key and electronic serial number or mobile equipment identifier are run through an algorithm on the portable wireless communication device and the wireless network switch during registration to the wireless network. The portable wireless communication device provides the processed result of the algorithm to the wireless network. The network switch also computes a result based on an algorithm and device data stored on the switch and compares the computed result to the result received from the portable wireless communication device . A failed comparison means an authentication failure call detail record is generated and the portable wireless communication device is not granted network access.

In an embodiment the method further generates a call detail record comprising a parameter having a value indicating the failed authentication procedure and sends a copy of the call detail record to a non billing system based on the parameter value. The non billing system couples a note to the subscriber account describing the authentication failure. In an embodiment the call detail record is generated by a mobile switching center MSC . In an embodiment the mobile switching center sends the call detail record to a mediation layer application and the mediation layer application makes a copy of the call detail record and sends the call detail record to the non billing system. In an embodiment the method further comprises sending the call detail record to a logging system.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a call detail record comprising usage information is created where the usage information indicates that a call origination attempt by a first portable wireless communication device has failed. At block based on the indication of the failed call origination attempt in the usage information a copy of the call detail record is routed to a communication subscriber account management platform . Sending the call detail record to the subscriber account management platform allows the wireless service provider to utilize the failure information outside of the traditional billing and network management functions.

At block the subscriber account management platform tags a communication service subscriber account associated with the first portable wireless communication device with an indication of the failed call origination attempt. By tagging the subscriber account with an indication of the failed call origination attempt the service provider takes advantage of usage information normally utilized for managing the communication network and creates added value in the subscriber account management area. Tagging may include adding a note to the subscriber account or inserting a reference to the usage information which points the customer care agent to a location in another system where the information about the failed authorization and or failed call origination attempt is stored. Additional data attached to the subscriber account provides the ability to give improved more efficient customer support. In an embodiment the method further comprises receiving a call to customer care associated with the first portable wireless communication device in a call center and distributing the call to a customer care agent. The customer care agent accesses the wireless communication service subscriber account and is presented the indication of the failed call origination attempt.

In an embodiment the copy of the call detail record is routed to the communication subscriber account management platform directly. No post processing of the call detail record data is done by the subscriber account management platform and the copy of the call detail record is sent directly to the subscriber account management platform and is processed as it is received. In an embodiment a message acquisition formatter MAF routes the copy of the call detail record to the communication subscriber account management platform . In an embodiment the message acquisition formatter routes the copy of the call detail record to the communication subscriber account management platform via an enterprise application integration EAI platform . Enterprise application integration is the use of software and computer systems architectural principles to integrate a set of enterprise computer applications allowing exchange of data between systems such as the message acquisition formatter the billing system and the subscriber account management platform. In an embodiment the communication subscriber account management platform is an Amdocs platform. Amdocs is a provider of software and services for billing customer relationship management and operations support systems to communications providers. Ensemble is the Amdocs platform for customer care billing and order management.

In an embodiment the subscriber account management platform tags the wireless communication service provider account associated with the first portable wireless device within a day s time of creation of the call detail record typically within an hour s time of creation of the call detail record. The copy of the call detail record may have to pass through a plurality of corporate computer systems to reach the subscriber account management platform . While the call detail record may be processed as it is received by these corporate computer systems it may have a lower priority than other tasks and therefore take some time for the subscriber account management platform to tag the subscriber account the tag typically occurs within a day s time of the creation of the call detail record.

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts a baseband signal and or a signal embodied in a carrier wave may be referred to as a transitory signal. In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

