---

title: Integrated sample preparation and analyte detection
abstract: A system for sample preparation and analyte detection includes a cartridge, with a fluidic channel, a waveguide, and a capture spot. The system further includes a force field generator, an imaging system, and a fluid, which includes a sample potentially containing a target analyte, first type particles, which include binding moieties specific for the target analyte and are responsive to a force field, and second type particles, which include binding moieties specific for the target analyte and are capable of generating a signal. When the sample contains the target analyte, specific binding interactions between the target analyte and binding moieties link first and second type particles via the target analyte to form multiple-particle complex capturable at a capture spot. The force field allows manipulation of the particles and multiple-particle complex such that the detected signal from the second type particles is indicative of the target analyte within the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08697435&OS=08697435&RS=08697435
owner: MBio Diagnostics, Inc.
number: 08697435
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100830
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 238 376 filed on Aug. 31 2009. The details of this Application No. 61 238 376 are incorporated by reference into the present application in its entirety and for all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under contract AI065357 awarded by the U.S. National Institute of Health. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Methods for measuring target analytes in biological samples including bodily fluids e.g. blood urine nasal washes environmental samples and bioprocessing samples often require a combination of biological sample preparation followed by some specific detection assay. Analytes such as proteins nucleic acids and cells in biological samples are typically a dilute component in a complex fluid or solid milieu.

Nucleic acids such as ribonucleic acid RNA and deoxyribonucleic acid DNA are particularly useful target analytes in biological assays. For example for influenza virus detection the target analyte may consist of RNA contained within dilute viral particles in a nasal swab. In order to prepare the biological sample for instance the specimen must be released from the swab nasal mucoid matrix must be broken down and viral particles must be opened while target RNA are protected from degrading enzymes. Similar processing steps are required for nucleic acid target analytes in other biological matrices including bodily fluids or tissues environmental samples forensic samples etc. After performing the appropriate sample preparation many advanced nucleic acid detection methods require amplification of the target analytes through methods such as polymerase chain reaction PCR nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA transcription mediated amplification TMA loop mediated isothermal amplification LAMP or other enzymatic amplification techniques. All of these methods have varying degrees of sensitivity to contaminants in the target matrix therefore careful sample preparation is required. Finally amplification is typically coupled with some type of signal transduction in order to measure the amplified product.

Other useful target analytes include peptides antigens antibodies and other proteins. Often these targets are extremely dilute e.g. antigen concentrations of picograms per milliliter of blood in a complex matrix containing debris a variety of cell types and a large background of proteins that can be in concentrations many orders of magnitude higher than the target analyte. Common approaches to the detection of peptide or protein targets are variations of the sandwich immunoassay which uses antibodies with specific affinity to the target analyte to selectively immobilize and detect the target. Signal transduction in immunoassays is often based on antibodies labeled with some signal transduction means such as enzymes used to drive color changes in the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA fluorescent labels used in the fluorescence immunoassay FIA chemiluminescence and radioactive labels. Particle agglutination assays and immunochromatographic assays are examples of immunoassays based on particle assembly to yield a visible signal. In histology fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry applications analysis of cell populations also typically requires an immunostaining step where labeled analyte specific antibodies are used to colorimetrically or fluorescently label the target analytes. Magnetic particles can also be used as labels for magnetic signal transduction.

Whole cells e.g. mammalian plant or bacteria and viral particles define another class of target analyte. Again target analyte cells or particles are frequently found at low concentration in complex sample milieu. For example clinically relevant bacterial concentrations in blood are 1 to 10 colony forming units per milliliter. Extensive and complex sample preparation and labeling are typically required for detection of cellular targets.

Functionalized particles including microspheres beads and nanoparticles have been used for numerous biological assay applications. Several approaches are highlighted below.

Particle Based Sample Preparation Functionalized magnetic particles and beads have been used in the context of biological sample cleanup concentration and separation. Magnetic particles are commercially available in a range of sizes carrier matrices e.g. polymer silica designs e.g. core shell embedded iron oxide nanoparticles and surface chemistries. Magnetic particles enable sample manipulation without expensive or complex equipment requirements. Non magnetic particles are also used in biological sample preparation. One example is the use of silica particles in the presence of chaotropic buffers to selectively bind nucleic acids.

Particle Based Detection Particles can be used to provide detection or signal transduction in biological assays. Exemplary methods include latex agglutination assays immunochromatographic assays light scattering assays and fluorescent particle assays. Agglutination assays are simple visually read assays in which the presence of a target analyte causes agglutination or flocculation of functionalized latex particles. Lateral flow assays and other immunochromatographic methods are also typically visually read assays in which particles with specific binding groups e.g. antibodies migrate through porous material and in the presence of the target analyte accumulate on a line or spot in the porous material where specific binding groups have been immobilized. Numerous particle types e.g. colored latex gold and selenium colloids are used in immunochromatographic assays. The main disadvantages of the latex agglutination and immunochromatographic approaches are limited sensitivity and limited multiplexing ability. The visual read also renders these techniques qualitative and subjective.

Another particle based approach to target analyte detection is the use of fluorescently labeled particles to provide signal transduction in biological assays. Polymer and glass particles containing fluorescent dyes and other luminophores such as lanthanide chelates are commercially available e.g. Molecular Probes Invitrogen Thermo Scientific and are supplied with surface reactive groups for performing further functionalization. Fluorescent particles have been used in the context of planar waveguide based detection and multiple analyte detection methods based on multiplexed measurement of different fluorescently labeled particles have been demonstrated see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 617 535 by Moll et al. entitled WAVEGUIDE WITH INTEGRATED LENS and filed 12 Nov. 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Light scattering particles have also been employed for analyte detection including light scattering particles bound at planar waveguide surfaces.

Field Assisted Particulate Assays Mass transport represents a serious limitation in practical heterogeneous assays performed at solid surfaces. This limitation is particularly important in low volume liquid systems where convective mixing is limited. Suggested methods to overcome mass transport limitations include electrophoretic approaches for concentration and detection of nucleic acids proteins and whole cells and methods that use magnetic particle labels.

Dual Particle Approaches Several dual particle approaches have been described such as an approach in which latex particle pairs are formed in the presence of a target analyte enabling proximity based signal generation via a donor acceptor oxygen channeling mechanism. Additionally a system for detection of nucleic acid sequences has been described which utilizes a magnetic particle with a target specific oligonucleotide sequence and a dye encapsulated liposome also with a target specific oligonucleotide sequence. The particle liposome combination is used as a sensor for specific RNA targets. In a set of approaches collectively referred to as biobarcode assays a large number of copies of a barcode sequence molecule are generated in the presence of an analyte. Alternatively self calibrating assays utilize particle complexes and dual wavelength detection.

A variety of useful particle based separation and purification methods are available for processing biological samples for subsequent detection assays. The particle based systems provide a method of signal transduction and can serve as a detection mode in different biological assay formats. Most of these approaches however typically require multiple sample preparation and analyte detection steps with extensive user or machine interventions.

In an embodiment a system for sample preparation and analyte detection is disclosed. The system includes a cartridge which cartridge includes a fluidic channel a waveguide and a capture spot disposed on the waveguide and within the fluidic channel. The system further includes a force field generator an imaging system and a fluid. The fluid includes a sample which potentially contains a target analyte. The fluid further includes first type particles which include binding moieties specific for the target analyte and is responsive to a force field and second type particles which include binding moieties specific for the target analyte and is capable of generating a signal. When the sample contains the target analyte specific binding interactions between the target analyte and binding moieties on the first and second type particles cause at least one of the first type particles and at least one of the second type particles to become linked via the target analyte to form a multiple particle complex. Furthermore when the fluid is brought into contact with the capture spot the multiple particle complex is capturable at one or more of the capture spots. Still further the force field allows manipulation of at least one of the first type particles second type particles and multiple particle complex such that the signal generated by the second type particles and captured at the imaging system is indicative of presence of the target analyte within the sample.

In a further embodiment the first type particles are magnetic particles and the force field generator is a magnet. For example the magnetic particles are polystyrene microspheres including a magnetic component.

In further embodiment the system also includes an excitation source for providing excitation energy so as to illuminate at least a portion of the fluidic channel. The second type particles are fluorescent particles configured for generating a fluorescent signal when the excitation energy is incident thereon.

In a yet further embodiment the waveguide is a planar waveguide such that the excitation energy is directed into the portion of the fluidic channel at least in part by total internal reflection through the planar waveguide.

In a still further embodiment the cartridge includes a plurality of capture spots disposed on the waveguide and within the fluidic channel.

In a further embodiment the imaging system includes an image sensor selected from a group consisting of a charge coupled device CCD and a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS sensor.

In another embodiment a method for sample processing and target detection is disclosed. The method includes providing a sample which sample potentially contains a target analyte. The method also includes providing particles of a first type which includes binding moieties specific for the target analyte and being responsive to a force field. The method further includes providing particles of a second type which also includes binding moieties specific for the target analyte and being capable of generating a signal. The method further includes contacting the sample with the first and second type particles under conditions that allow specific binding interactions between the target analyte and binding moieties on the first and second type particles such that in the presence of the target analyte one of the first type particles and one of the second type particles are linked via the target analyte to form a multiple particle complex. The method further includes manipulating at least one of the first and second type particles and the multiple particle complex using the force field. Finally the method includes detecting the multiple particle complex in a manner that is sensitive to the multiple particle complex and not to individual ones of the first and second type particles wherein the multiple particle complex so detected is indicative of the target analyte.

In a further embodiment manipulating at least one of the first and second type particles and the multiple particle complex comprises applying a magnetic field to at least a portion of the first and second type particles and the multiple particle complex. In a still further embodiment manipulating includes separating the first type particles and the multiple particle complex from the second type particles.

In a yet further embodiment the second type particles may include luminescent molecules or ions. In a still further embodiment the second type particles generate the signal upon exposure to excitation energy. Furthermore in another embodiment illuminating includes containing and guiding the excitation energy within a volume such that only the first type particles second type particles and multiple particle complex disposed adjacent to the volume is illuminated. Still further manipulating includes moving the second type particles away from the volume such that only the first type particles and multiple particle complex are illuminated.

In a still further embodiment manipulating includes exposing the sample to the force field so as to retain the multiple particle complexes while removing from the sample the second type particles that are unlinked to the target analyte. The method further includes providing an excitation energy to the sample such that the second type particles linked in the multiple particle complexes so retained in the sample generate a detectable signal.

In a further embodiment the multiple particle complex exhibits directional signal enhancement and detecting the multiple particle complex includes sensing the detectable signal in a manner sensitive to the directional signal enhancement.

It is noted that for purposes of illustrative clarity certain elements in the drawings may not be drawn to scale.

The embodiments described herein address the need for simplified integrated sample preparation and detection systems for biological assays. Exemplary embodiments address major limitations in the current art in which sample preparation and analyte detection are performed separately each with multiple time consuming or automation intensive methods. Few if any previously described approaches have successfully combined sample preparation and detection in a single integrated method. The approach described herein addresses the significant need for simplified integrated sample preparation and detection systems for biological assays.

Examples of analytes include nucleic acids proteins and cells in complex milieu such as biological samples. For instance the target analyte may be a protein or peptide target and particles may be functionalized with specific binding groups such as antibodies Fab fragments or aptamers. A complex of at least two dissimilar particle types may be used for the integrated purification concentration and detection of target analytes. The multiple particle complex may be formed for example when a target analyte forms the link between a field responsive particle such as a magnetic particle and a signal generating particle such a fluorescent particle. That is the multiple particle complex effectively acts as a sandwich assay.

The terms particles and beads are used interchangeably herein and may refer to any of several particles of different compositions ranging in size from approximately 0.01 to 20 micrometers in diameter. Particles may include organic materials such as but not limited to latex polystyrene agarose and lipids. While particles are spherical e.g. latex microspheres in many cases the particles disclosed herein are not required to be spherical. Particles may also include inorganic materials such as but not limited to silica and other silica based glass compositions oxides including iron oxides ceramics and semiconductors. Particles may also be composite constructions such as core shell particles e.g. a metal or metal oxide core with an organic polymer shell and polymers incorporating metal oxide subparticles therein.

Continuing to refer to a second type particle has been functionalized with a second probe detect probe which is complementary to second end sequence of target analyte . For example second type particle may be a signal particle such as a fluorescent particle that has been functionalized with a DNA sequence complementary to second end sequence . A signal particle or a signal generating particle may be any particle that generates a detectable signal such as a luminescent particle that emits light when excited with an appropriate illumination source. Examples of detectable signals include but are not limited to luminescence fluorescence phosphorescence chemiluminescence light scattering and magnetic fields. Complex exhibits a combination of the characteristics of first and second type particles and respectively. For example if first type particle is a magnetic particle and second type particle is a fluorescent particle then complex may be manipulated by application of a magnetic field and also be induced to generate a fluorescent signal by application of appropriate excitation energy such as light from a laser or a light emitting diode LED .

In various embodiments target analyte forms a bridge between at least two dissimilar particles each with distinct functionality. One particle type e.g. first type particle may be responsive to a force field i.e. a field responsive particle allowing the separation purification and or concentration of these particles with the application of an appropriate force field. For example the field responsive particle may be a paramagnetic particle which is responsive to a magnetic field from a permanent magnet or electromagnet. The field responsive particle may also include other magnetic particle types. Additional types of particles suitable for use as field responsive particles may be sedimenting particles such as particles with sufficient density relative to the fluid density to allow sedimentation either in a natural gravitational field or through centrifugation and particles with electrophoretic mobility i.e. particles responsive to an applied electric field .

Furthermore second type particle may be for example a latex or glass particle impregnated with fluorescent molecules luminescent particles e.g. particles impregnated with lanthanide chelates light scattering particles resonant light scattering particles nanoparticles and or magnetic particles. Both first and second type particles and may require functionalization with binding moieties that make them amenable to biological assays. Particle functionalization protocols are established in the art and kits for magnetic particle and fluorescent particle functionalization are commercially available.

In one embodiment nucleic acid target is rapidly concentrated and detected using magnetic particles functionalized with oligonucleotide capture probes complementary to the target nucleic acid sequence and fluorescent particles functionalized with oligonucleotide probes complementary to a different section of the target sequence. Simple wash steps may be performed using magnetic washes and a magnet is then used to drive particle pairs to a detection surface where particle complexes are quantified. are a series of drawings illustrating an exemplary process for such sample preparation and multiple particle complex formation and detection.

First referring to in conjunction with a buffer is confined within a container . A sample such as blood serum or other biological specimen containing a target analyte is added to buffer . Buffer may be for example a lysis buffer or a stabilization buffer containing functionalized particles. In the exemplary process shown in buffer contains first and second type particles and respectively which have been functionalized as previously discussed. For example as shown in first type particle may be a magnetic particle which functionalized with capture probes suitable for binding to first end sequence of the specific target analyte of interest. Also second type particles may be a fluorescent particle which has been functionalized with detect probes suitable for binding to second end sequence of target analyte .

Referring to hybridization leads to the formation of multiple particle complexes . Each one of multiple particle complexes is formed by capture probe of first type particle binding to first end sequence of target analyte and detect probe of second type particle binding to second end sequence of target analyte . Unbound first and second type particles and respectively remaining in buffer then are removed by one or more wash steps as shown in . Taking advantage of the magnetic nature of first type particles a magnet is brought into proximity of container such that multiple particle complexes as well as unbound first type particles are pulled toward magnet while unbound second type particles which are non magnetic remain suspended in buffer . By a series of fluid exchange i.e. wash steps substantially all of unbound second type particles may be removed from container . It may be noted that unbound first type particles need not be removed by wash steps because they do not generate a signal that is detectable in the detection step which is illustrated in .

Following the wash steps magnet is removed and the remaining multiple particle complexes and unbound first type particles are allowed to settle at the bottom of container as shown in . Alternatively multiple particle complexes and unbound first type particles may be magnetically concentrated at the bottom of container . Second type particles bound to target analyte within multiple particle complexes are excited with an appropriate excitation energy not shown and the resulting signal from second type particles is detected by an imaging system .

An alternative method of sample preparation and analyte detection without a wash step is shown in . In this embodiment all particles including multiple particle complexes as well as unbound first type and second type particles are present at the bottom of container and a detection method that is sensitive only to multiple particle complexes is used for target analyte detection. As shown in which is similar to buffer within a container contains a plurality of target analyte first type particle and second type particle . As shown in which is similar to target analyte links together first and second type particles and respectively so as to form a plurality of multiple particle complexes . In contrast to the method described in relation to this alternative method eliminates the wash step shown in . Then as shown in a detection method sensitive only to the presence of multiple particle complexes is used to detect the presence of the target analyte. An example of such a detection method is described in Example VII below.

The processes shown in may be adapted to affect spatial translation of the target analyte and or multiple particle complexes by using the processes in combination with a fluidic channel and a magnetic arrangement such as a movable set of magnets or a plurality of magnets that may be activated and deactivated at will e.g. electromagnets . An example of such a spatial translation process suitable for integrated sample preparation and analyte detection is illustrated in .

In one embodiment referring to channel is pre filled with a buffer . A sample is then introduced at inlet port . The sample contains a combination of target analyte first and second type particles and and multiple particle complexes formed by a combination of target analyte linking first and second type particles and therewith.

Referring now to a fixed magnet or electromagnet at position M is activated then an additional amount of buffer is added at inlet port . The additional buffer causes flow through fluidic channel such that unbound second type particles are flushed to outlet port while first type particles and multiple particle complexes are retained upstream from the array of capture spots.

As shown in a second electromagnet located at position M beneath capture spot A is then activated such that the remaining first type particles and multiple particle complexes migrate over capture spot A. Alternatively a fixed magnet may be moved from position M to position M beneath capture spot A and be activated for a certain amount of time e.g. 5 seconds . The magnet is then deactivated to allow first type particles and multiple particle complexes to freely interact with immobilized capture molecules at spot A. Modes of capture molecule immobilization and binding to a capture spot are described in the descriptions of below. If a specific binding event occurs e.g. antigen antibody protein protein of nucleic acid hybridization then first type particles and multiple particle complexes become bound at spot A.

After a set amount of time e.g. 20 seconds an electromagnet is activated beneath capture spot A or alternatively the magnet shown in may be moved from position M to position M beneath capture spot A then activated for a predetermined amount of time e.g. 5 seconds as shown in . Consequently first type particles and multiple particle complexes that did not bind to capture spot A migrate toward capture spot A. In the example shown in no specific binding to spot A occurred and all first type particles and multiple particle complexes are magnetically transported to capture spot A. Once the magnet at M is deactivated or removed the unbound first type particles and multiple particle complexes are allowed to freely interact with immobilized capture molecules at capture spot A for a certain amount of time e.g. 20 seconds . The process is then repeated for the magnet positions M and M corresponding to capture spots A and A respectively as shown in respectively. In this example specific binding at capture spot A occurred and particle complexes were retained at spot A during subsequent magnetic migration steps. Finally any residual first type particles and multiple particle complexes are moved away from the capture array by moving or activating the magnet to position M.

In the method illustrated in the combination of the fluidic channel and the magnet configurations allows the performance of sample preparation and analyte detection within a single volume. That is the initially added sample as shown in may include unbound second type particles prior to introduction into channel . While a sample preparation method such as illustrated in may be performed separately prior to sample introduction into channel the fluidic channel and magnet configuration of makes a separate sample preparation optional. Such simplification is particularly desirable in reducing the complexity of the overall assay protocol.

In the embodiment shown in magnets at positions M and M may be further configured to tune the direction of the applied magnetic field in order to alter magnetic migration velocities through the channel. For example optionally a fixed magnet or electromagnet at position M may be activated at the same time as the magnet at position M to assist in the flow and capture of first type particles and multiple particle complexes through channel as shown in . Similarly a fixed magnet or electromagnet at position M may also be simultaneously activated to assist in the flow of unbound first type particles and multiple particle complexes toward outlet port as shown in .

Referring to in conjunction with capture spot A on substrate includes first immobilized oligonucleotide probe with first end sequence complementary to the sequence of the oligonucleotide i.e. first probe immobilized on first type particle . Capture spot A includes second immobilized oligonucleotide probe with another sequence that is complementary to neither first probe nor second probe . During an assay such as that described in multiple particle complexes will specifically bind to capture spot A through first probe as will unbound first type particles functionalized with first probe . Since capture spot A includes only second immobilized oligonucleotide probe with non complementary sequences in this example no particles of any type bind to spot A.

Although illustrate specific binding through oligonucleotide probes it is recognized that the concepts shown in may readily be applied to protein or cellular targets with specific binding molecules such as peptides proteins antibodies aptamers etc.

Referring again to cartridge after the steps shown in may then be illuminated with excitation from light source . Consequently second type particles linked within multiple particle complexes captured on one or more of capture spots A A generate a signal in response to excitation that may be captured by imaging system for target analyte detection.

Optionally as shown in a wash magnet may be used to provide a magnetic wash step. For example as shown in first type particles and multiple particle complexes may be distributed through fluidic channel such that the particles settle onto one or more of capture spots A A simultaneously rather than being translated from spot to spot in a step wise fashion as illustrated in . At least one of the specific binding processes as illustrated in may take place such that certain particles are captured on one or more of capture spots A A. Wash magnet may then be activated at position M for a specific period of time e.g. one minute such that unbound first type particles and multiple particle complexes which have not been specifically bound to one of capture spots A A are removed from an imaging zone proximate to capture spots A A. For example for given excitation provided by light source configuration of substrate and settings of imaging system the imaging zone may be defined as an area that extends less than a micrometer into channel from the surface of substrate on which capture spots A A have been disposed for example the extent of evanescent wave propagation beyond substrate in a total internal reflection mode of illumination through substrate . The removal of unbound first type particles from the imaging zone essentially functions as a magnetic wash in which unwanted particles are removed from the imaging zone by magnetic force. The strength of the magnetic field may be tuned such that particles specifically bound to a capture spot are not removed with the application of the magnetic field from position M. While four capture spots A A are shown in and fewer or more capture spots may be used depending on the particular biomolecules of interest.

Further details of the magnetic wash step shown in are illustrated in . The situation shown in is similar to that shown in in that first type particles are specifically bound to capture spot A while none of the particles in the sample is bound to capture spot A. Upon application of magnetic force from above e.g. from a magnet in position M as shown in the unbound particles and multiple particle complexes are removed from the surface of substrate as shown in . Provided that the magnetic field strength is not strong enough to remove specifically bound particles as the magnetic wash step results in specifically bound particles on a capture spot with very low non specific particle background binding .

In another embodiment particle complexes such as those shown in may be separated from free fluorescent particles using a simple mechanical translation. illustrate an exemplary approach. When a sample including a target analyte is introduced to a solution containing functionalized first type particles and functionalized second type particles multiple particle complexes are formed as shown in is similar to earlier described . In certain cases it is necessary to physically separate free functionalized second type particles e.g. free fluorescent particles from multiple particle complexes . This separation may be performed by using a cartridge which is formed of a substrate an upper component and a gasket collectively defining a fluidic chamber . Fluidic chamber is filled with a buffer . Multiple particle complex first type particle and second type particle are introduced to fluidic chamber as illustrated in . For a thin channel device e.g. channel height

In another embodiment high index of refraction particles may be used to create enhanced optical detection signals as illustrated in . For example a directional luminescent signal enhancement with high index of refraction particle fluorescent particle complexes may be obtainable. A magnetic particle may act as a high index of refraction spherical lens which serves to effectively focus illumination radiation onto the luminescent particle. Alternatively the magnetic particle spherical lens may collect and focus light signal emitted from the luminescent particle.

Additionally as shown in the signal generated by second type particle may also be affected by the lensing effects imparted by first type particle . Consequently for the same amount of signal indicated by arrows generated by second type particle the amount of signal that reaches an observer depends on the orientation of multiple particle complex . For example as shown in when first type particle is directly in the path of signal between second type particle and observer first type particle may refract signal so as to intensify the amount of signal that reaches observer . Alternatively multiple particle complex may be oriented such that first type particle refracts signal away from observer thereby reducing the amount of signal that reaches observer see . The focusing and light collection effects are demonstrated experimentally in EXAMPLE VII discussed below.

Both the focusing and light collection effects may be utilized in detection systems to significantly improve the sensitivity of multiple particle complex detection. When properly oriented relative to a detector e.g. a CCD or CMOS camera the measured luminescent signal may be significantly enhanced relative to the signal from an isolated luminescent particle. For instance multiple particle complexes may be allowed to tumble in solution. Depending on orientation of the multiple particle complex relative to the illumination source and detector this tumbling effect may significantly alter the illumination intensity incident at the luminescent particle. Similarly during luminescence emission the magnetic particle spherical lens may serve to focus or direct light in a direction linked to the orientation of the particle complex.

Due to the highly directional nature of the signal enhancement effect illustrated in tumbling multiple particle complexes will appear to flash when visualized with an imaging detector such as a CMOS or CCD camera. Free fluorescent particles i.e. fluorescent particles that are not linked to a magnetic particle in a multiple particle complex exhibit no such flash effect and instead exhibit a steady state fluorescence emission. When attached to magnetic particles in a multiple particle complex the flashing particles when captured in their bright orientation show fluorescence emission that appears to be physically larger and more intense than the free fluorescent particles. Furthermore particle pairs may be intentionally oriented relative to a detector in order to increase emitted light detection. The particle pairs may be oriented using for example magnetic fields and fluid forces.

It may be noted that this localized particle lensing effect is significantly enhanced via the use of high refractive index particles. In an embodiment magnetic polymer microspheres exhibit an effective index of refraction higher than non magnetic polymer microspheres. For instance incorporation of magnetic iron within the microsphere may increase the effective index of refraction of the microsphere thus yielding stronger focusing effects. For the size range of particles described in this embodiment the magnetic polymer microspheres give significant signal enhancement relative to non magnetic polymer microsphere of the same diameter. This signal enhancement effect is experimentally demonstrated in EXAMPLE VIII discussed below.

Several examples of implementations of exemplary embodiments of the present technology are disclosed herein. These descriptive examples are not intended to be limiting but rather illustrative. Specific quantities and chemicals discussed herein are merely representative as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

This example of the present technology demonstrates the detection of target DNA using an oligonucleotide sandwich assay and a dual particle capture and detect format. Magnetic particles were functionalized with a 50 nucleotide single stranded DNA capture sequence capture probe specific to a section of the DNA target. The detect probe was a 50 nucleotide biotinylated DNA sequence specific to a section of DNA target adjacent to the capture sequence. In the presence of DNA target the capture and detect probes specifically hybridize to adjacent sections of the target creating the sandwich. A particle complex is created by adding avidin functionalized fluorescent particles which bind to the biotinylated detect probe. Nucleic acid probe sequences are provided in Table 1 and experimental details are provided here. In one instance target analyte particle complexes may be delivered to a detection surface via passive sedimentation by ambient gravity. In another approach target analyte particle complexes may be delivered to a detection surface via active sedimentation in a centrifuge. In another approach target analyte particle complexes may be translated along a two dimensional surface to an analytical region by applying magnetic force from under the two dimensional surface and moving the magnet and thus the particle complexes to the analytical region.

Magnetic particle functionalization. Magnetic particles were coated with an amine functionalized DNA probe using the following protocol. 100 microliters of a 10 mg ml solution of 1 micrometer diameter magnetic particles Dynabead MyOne Carboxylic Acid Invitrogen were transferred to a 1.7 ml micro centrifuge tube. The tube was placed in a magnetic separator Invitrogen Dynal to concentrate the beads to the side wall of the tube. The liquid was removed and particles were re suspended in water. This wash step was repeated with water and then particles were suspended in 200 microliters of 0.1M MES 2 morpholinoethanesulfonic acid Fluka pH 5.2. 100 microliters of 10 mg ml 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDC Pierce and 100 microliters of 10 mg ml sulfo N hydroxysuccinimide Sulfo NHS Pierce were added to the magnetic particle solution. The solution was mixed for 30 minutes by rotating. The tube was then placed in the magnetic particle separator and the liquid was removed. Particles were then suspended in a 100 microliter solution of 500 micromolar amine modified capture probe see Table 1 in 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 8.0. The solution was mixed for 3 hours at room temperature on a rotator. The tube was then placed in the magnetic separator and the liquid was removed. The particles were washed 3 times with 1 PBS 0.05 Tween20 PBST using the magnetic separator for each step. Particles were then re suspended in bead buffer BB which contains 1 PBS 0.3 molar sodium chloride NaCl 20 micrograms ml herring sperm DNA Sigma Aldrich 200 micrograms ml bovine serum albumin BSA Sigma Aldrich and 0.05 Tween20 Pierce . Concentration of particles at this point was 1 mg ml. Functionalized particles were stored at 4 C.

Fluorescent particle functionalization. Fluorescent particles Thermo Dark Red 0.39 micrometer 2 wt vol were functionalized by mixing 100 microliters of particle stock solution with 100 microliters of 0.2 mg ml NeutrAvidin Pierce in 0.2 molar sodium phosphate for 4 hours at 4 C. 200 microliters of BB were added. The solution was transferred to a 0.1 micrometer microfiltration centrifuge tube Millipore and centrifuged for 8 minutes at 6000 rpm Fisher Scientific Accuspin Micro17 centrifuge . Particles were re suspended in bead buffer and the filtration step was repeated two more times i.e. three washes total . The particles were then re suspended in bead buffer and stored at 4 C. at a concentration of 0.1 w v.

Target DNA Capture. Target DNA was captured on capture probe modified magnetic particles. Biotinylated detect probe was added during hybridization. NeutrAvidin coated fluorescent particles were added after hybridization to complete the full sandwich.

Synthetic target DNA C05 d100 tar IDT Table 1 Example I is derived from a portion of the influenza H1N1 genome. The capture oligonucleotide i.e. capture probe is complementary to the 5 end of target DNA and was synthesized by Integrated DNA Technologies Inc. IDT Inc. with a C6 amine modification capture probe c05 5 pcomp 50 in Table 1 . The biotinylated detect oligonucleotide detect probe was complementary to the 3 end of target DNA and was synthesized by IDT Inc. as the 5 C6 amine derivative detect probe c05 3 pcomp 50 in Table 1 . Biotin was conjugated to this sequence by reaction with Sulfo NHS LC Biotin Pierce .

Assay protocol. Dilutions of target DNA were mixed with 2E6 capture probe modified magnetic particles in hybridization buffer HB 3 SSPE Saline Sodium Phosphate Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA buffer 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS 100 microgram ml BSA and 20 microgram ml of herring sperm DNA hsDNA containing 2 nanomolar biotinylated detect probe and mixed on a rotating heat block at 1100 rpm at 55 C. for 2 hours allowing formation of the particle capture probe target detect probe complex.

Particle complexes were then washed as follows using a permanent magnet and fluid exchange. Supernatant was removed and particles were re suspended in 3 SSPE 0.1 SDS 1 . This was followed by two washes supernatant exchange with PBSHT 1 PBS 500 millimolar NaCl 2 mg ml BSA 20 ug ml hsDNA 0.05 Tween20 . The particles were then suspended in 100 microliters of PBSHT and 2E8 NeutrAvidin fluorescent particles were added. The solutions were mixed on a rotator at room temperature for 15 minutes to allow biotin NeutrAvidin binding. Magnetic fluorescent particle complexes are formed in this step with target DNA forming the link between the particles.

Particle complexes were washed 3 with PBSHT by magnetic isolation and removal of supernatant with final resuspension in 100 microliters of PBSHT. The entire volume of each reaction was transferred to separate wells of a 384 well plate and a bar magnet was used to draw the particle complexes to the bottom surface of the wells This wash procedure removes unbound fluorescent particles so that the only remaining fluorescent particles are those complexed with magnetic particles through interaction with the target.

Particle complexes were quantified by imaging on an epifluorescence microscope Olympus IX 71 equipped with a 20 objective and Cy5 filters. Particle complexes in the images were counted automatically using a particle counting tool developed in the open source software ImageJ. Results are presented in showing the resulting titration curve with limit of detection at approximately 1 femtomolar target.

In the present example 1 micrometer diameter magnetic particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range of 0.01 to 20 micrometers may be used. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range of 0.2 to 10 micrometers may be used. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range 0.3 to 6 micrometers may be used. It is also noted that magnetic particle size distributions may be monodisperse. Alternatively a range of magnetic particle sizes may be used simultaneously. It is also noted that non spherical magnetic particles may be used.

In the present example commercially available monodisperse polymer shell superparamagnetic particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternative magnetic particle types may be used in this invention. Alternative magnetic particle matrix materials include latex polystyrene agarose and other polymers silica and silica based glass compositions oxides including iron oxides and ceramics. Magnetic particles may also be composite constructions such as core shell particles e.g. metal or metal oxide core with organic polymer shell and polymers incorporating metal oxide subparticles.

In the present example magnetic particle functionalization was performed using amine modified oligonucletides with EDC NHS ester chemistry as an exemplary demonstration. Alternative amine reactive coupling chemical reactions include those based on isothiocyanates isocyanates acyl azides sulfonyl chlorides aldehydes glyoxals epoxides oxiranes carbonates arylating agents imidoesters carbodiimides and anyhydrides. As an alternative to amine modified oligonucleotides thiol modified oligonucleotides may be used. Alternative thiol reactive coupling chemical reactions that may be used include those based on haloacetyl and alkyl halide derivatives maleimides aziridines acrylolyl derivatives arylating agents and thiol disulfide exchange reagents. As another alternative to amine modified oligonucleotides carboxylate modified oligonucleotides may be used. Alternative carboxylate reactive coupling chemical reactions that may be used include diazoalkanes and diazoacetyl compounds carbonyldiimidazole and carbodiimides. As another alternative to amine modified oligonucleotides hydroxyl modified oligonucleotides may be used. Alternative hydroxyl reactive coupling chemical reactions that may be used include epoxides and oxiranes carbonyldiimidazole N N disuccinimidyl carbonate alkyl halogens isocyanates or oxidation chemistries. As another alternative to amine modified oligonucleotides aldehyde modified or ketone modified oligonucleotides may be used. Alternative aldehyde reactive or ketone reactive coupling chemical reactions that may be used include hydrazine derivatives Schiff base formation reductive amination and Mannich condensation. As another alternative to amine modified oligonucleotides photo reactive oligonucleotides may be used. Alternative photoreactive coupling chemical reactions that may be used include aryl azides and halogenated aryl azides benzophenones diazo compounds and diazirine derivatives.

In the present example 0.39 micrometer diameter fluorescent particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range of 0.01 to 20 micrometers may be used. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range of 0.2 to 10 micrometers may be used. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range 0.3 to 6 micrometers may be used. It is also noted that fluorescent particle size distributions may be monodisperse. Alternatively a range of fluorescent particle sizes may be used simultaneously. It is also noted that non spherical fluorescent particles may be used.

The Dark Red Thermo fluorescent particle product used in the example had excitation emission wavelengths centered at 640 660 nm. An alternative fluorescent dye may be used in the blue part of the spectrum excitation 360 to 420 nm and emission 420 to 480 nm green part of the spectrum excitation 450 to 500 nm emission 500 to 540 nm or red part of the spectrum excitation 540 to 590 nm emission 590 to 640 nm . Another alternative fluorescent dye may be used in the infrared part of the spectrum with emission wavelengths 700 nm such as the products from Li Cor Biosciences. The fluorescent particles used in the present example were based on organic dye fluorophores. Alternative luminophores may be used including lanthanides such as europium erbium and terbium based emitters as well as semiconductor based emitters such as quantum dots.

In the present example the detect probe was a biotinylated oligonucleotide that was subsequently bound to a NeutrAvidin fluorescent particles. Alternatively the fluorescent particle in this example may be modified with streptavidin or avidin. Alternatively the fluorescent particle in this example may be coupled directly to the detect oligonucleotide prior to the assay. Alternative fluorescent particle functionalization chemistries are the same as those listed above for magnetic particle functionalization.

The DNA target In the present example was a synthetic 100 nucleotide sequence used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively the DNA target may be any DNA molecule with a minimum length of 30 nucleotides. Alternatively the DNA target may be 30 to 5000 nucleotides long.

Capture and detect probe lengths used in this example were 50 nucleotides in length with six carbon linkers. Alternatively oligonucleotide probes may be 10 to 100 nucleotides in length. Alternatively oligonucleotide probes may be 20 to 70 nucleotides in length.

The hybridization reaction In the present example was performed using a rotating heat block at 1100 rpm at 55 C. for 2 hours as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively the hybridization reaction may be performed without mechanical mixing rotating . Alternatively the hybridization reactions may be performed in the temperature range 4 to 65 C. Alternatively the hybridization reactions may be performed in the temperature range 25 to 55 C.

Example II demonstrates detection of RNA target using the methods of Example 1 except that synthetic RNA target Thermo Scientific Sequence PrP 1013 27 1 Table 1 was used at 100 picomolar with detect probe at 20 nanomolar.

Magnetic particles used for full sandwich detection were covalently linked with DNA probe IDT Table 1 Example II Capture Probe PrP 1013 27 5 as described above. Control magnetic particles were covalently loaded with DNA probe complementary to the 5 end of the Target RNA Table 1 Example II Control Probe NA H1N1 6 3p30 . Target hybridizes to the Control Probe particles but does not generate signal because the biotinylated detect probe is also complementary to the 5 end of the Target RNA. Detect probe complementary to the 5 end of the target was purchased from IDT with a biotin on the 3 end and a dT 10 spacer Table 1 Example II Detect Probe NA H1N1 6 3p30 biotin .

A total of four different conditions were tested in this experiment 1 specific capture probe and RNA target positive sample 2 mismatch capture probe and RNA target to look for non specific hybridization 3 specific capture probe and no RNA target and 4 mismatch capture probe and no RNA target. The last two conditions assess non specific particle particle interactions.

The assay protocol was as described in Example I. Each particle suspension was transferred to a microplate well and imaged on the inverted fluorescence microscope as described above. No signal was observed in wells with zero RNA or mismatch probes while the wells with 100 picomolar RNA target and complementary capture and detect probes registered substantial fluorescent bead counts.

Example III demonstrates rapid hybridization followed by selective surface binding to an array of capture spots on a microarray surface. This experiment used the same DNA target sequence capture probe magnetic particles and biotinylated probes as in Example I.

Four amine functionalized probes were spotted onto a custom activated assay device substrate using a Bio Dot non contact microarrayer robot. For this example the device substrate was a cyclic olefin polymer COP planar waveguide approximately 70 mm 25 mm 1 mm with an integrated light coupling lens. Custom activation was by first performing an oxygen plasma treatment on the COP waveguide followed by silanization with 3 glycidoxypropyl triethoxysilane to create an amine reactive surface activated with epoxy groups. Alternative device substrates include transparent planar components made of glass ceramics or polymers such as polystyrene or acrylic. Alternative silanization reagents include aminopropyl silanes aldehyde silanes vinyl silanes vinyl sulfone silanes acrylate silanes methacrylate silanes mercapto silanes hydroxyl silanes carboxy silanes azido silanes. Alternatively surface activation could be via on surface polymerization or polymer grafting including with polyethylene glycol polymers with reactive end groups.

Arrays were printed with 3 spots of each probe for a 3 4 array. One of the four surface capture probes was complementary to the probes immobilized on the magnetic particles. The other three surface capture probes were non complementary mismatches. All surface capture probes were purchased from IDT with 3 amine linkers and a dT 9 spacer and are listed in Table 1 Example III.

Three samples were prepared in 1.5 ml micro centrifuge tubes containing 1 milliliter of HB 1E7 magnetic particles loaded with capture probe as described above and 5 nanomolar biotinylated detect probe. Target DNA was added to give concentrations of 200 femtomolars and 20 femtomolars. The third sample tube contained no target DNA zero control .

Samples were mixed for 1 hr at 55 C. on a thermomixer Eppendorf at 1200 rpm. Particles were then rinsed once with HB and twice with BB. Particles were then suspended in 90 microliters of BB. 10 microliters of NeutrAvidin modified fluorescent particles were added for a concentration of 5E8 fluorescent particles per sample. Samples were rotated end over end on a rotator Barnstead Thermolyne Labquake for 15 minutes rinsed two times with BB using magnetic separation and suspended in approximately 4 microliters of BB.

To perform the assay a cartridge assembly similar to that illustrated in was used. In particular a plastic microarray substrate was assembled into a plastic fluidic upper component with a pressure sensitive adhesive gasket defining a fluidic channel above the array. The channel was pre filled with 100 microliters of BB. Two microliters of sample was added to the inlet of the flow channel. An electro magnet was placed at a location approximately 2 mm upstream of the microarray e.g. position M power to the magnet was turned on to 12V and 200 microliters of BB was added to the inlet. The addition of BB caused flow through the channel while the magnetic particles were concentrated to the location of the magnet upstream from the microarray as shown in . The magnet was then turned off and moved to a position directly beneath the first row of spots C05 TR1SC specific spots position M as shown in . The magnet was turned on for approximately 5 seconds at a power of 6V DC 2 amp power supply . The particles migrated over the first row of spots and the magnet was then turned off. After 20 seconds the magnet was placed under the second row of spots C18 TR1SC position M as shown in and turned on 6V for 5 seconds. This procedure was repeated until the particles had been positioned over each row of spots. The slide was then imaged on the fluorescence microscope as in previous experiments.

After initial imaging a bar shaped magnet was placed above the microarray e.g. at position M as shown in for 1 minute. This application of magnetic force functions as a magnetic wash as earlier discussed in relation to . That is magnetic particles that are not specifically bound to an array spot migrate up through channel and out of the imaging zone thus magnetically washing non specifically adsorbed particles. The strength of the magnetic field may be tuned such that specifically bound particles are not removed due to the application of the magnetic field. The cartridge was imaged with an imaging system then particle pairs at each capture spot per sample were enumerated using image analysis software ImageJ . The resulting image analysis yielded specific signal on the cognate specific array spots and very little signal on the mismatch spots.

In this example specific particle complex detection is demonstrated in the context of a planar waveguide based detection system. The materials and general method used in this experiment were the same as those described in Example II. Three samples were run 1 a 10 picomolar target sample 2 a 100 femtomolar target sample and 3 a zero target control. As in other experiments the zero target control had very few particle pairs when imaged in the bottom of a microtiter plate well on microscope. The 10 picomolar target sample was then used to test capture of the particle pairs on a microarray. The microarray included 3 different capture probes as described in Table 1 Example IV.

The slide was imaged with waveguide illumination using the apparatus shown schematically in . As shown in a sample preparation and detection system includes a cartridge assembly which includes a planar waveguide with a refractive volume an upper component and gasket defining a fluidic channel . Fluidic channel includes an inlet port and an outlet port . System further includes an imaging system which may in turn include for example one or more refractive elements diffractive elements reflective elements filters and sensors. System also includes excitation energy represented by an arrow provided by an excitation source . Excitation source may be for instance a laser an LED or other suitable source of excitation energy. As shown in an array of capture spots is affixed to a surface of planar waveguide within fluidic channel such that target analyte or multiple particle complexes containing the target analyte may be captured at one or more capture spots . In experiment particle complexes were only detected on the specific NA H1N1 6 3p30 COMP NH2 spots.

The variations described above in reference to Examples I and III are also applicable to the present example.

In another embodiment a cocktail of particle pairs is added to a sample containing a plurality of different target analytes. Target analyte particle complexes are added to a flow chamber including an array of capture spots specific for different particle probes as described in Example IV. Signal measured on the capture spots indicate the presence and amount of target analyte in the original solution.

This example demonstrates the use of a cocktail of functionalized particles in the context of target detection. A cocktail of particles were prepared with probes for four possible nucleic acid targets see Table 1 Example V . For each potential target the cocktail contained magnetic particles with specific capture probe and a biotinylated detect probe. Each magnetic particle type was at a concentration of 2E 06 particles ml and each biotinylated probe was at 10 nanomolar concentration. Thus there were four magnetic bead capture sequence types and four biotinylated detect sequence types for a total of eight different probe sequences in the cocktail.

Substrates were prepared by printing a microarray with sequences complementary to the probes on the magnetic particles sequences provided in Table 1 capture configuration shown in .

The assay was performed by adding one sequence C05 of the four possible targets at a concentration of 100 femtomolars. Assay steps and microarray were same as in Example III. The processed substrate was imaged using a fluorescent microscope and particle complexes were enumerated using image analysis software Image J . Representative results are provided in . Results show that signal is strongest on the correct complementary spot. Mismatch spots show minimal signal relative to off spot background.

The variations described above with respect to Examples I and III are also applicable to the present example.

This example demonstrates that the system may be used to detect protein targets. In this example the target is an antibody. 200 microliters of Dynabeads MyOne Streptavidin T1 Life Technologies were rinsed with 100 millimolar phosphate with pH of 7.2 using magnetic separation in a 1.7 ml micro centrifuge tube and then suspended in 200 microliters of phosphate buffer with a pH of 7.2. 20 microliters of 1 mg ml biotinylated donkey anti rabbit IgG was added to the particles which were mixed for 1 hour on a thermomixer at room temperature and 900 rpm. Particles were then rinsed four times with PBT 1 PBS 10 mg ml BSA 0.05 Tween 20 using magnetic separation.

100 microliters of fluorescent particles Duke Sci. FR3040PA 0.39 um Dark Red Fluorescent polystyrene 2 w v were loaded with 20 ul of a mixture of ovalbumin OVA and bovine serum albumin BSA at a 1 5 ratio 1 mg ml OVA 5 mg ml BSA . The OVA BSA solution was added to the particles and the mixture was incubated overnight at 4 C. then rinsed four times over a 0.1 micrometer spin filter Amicon with PBT. For each rinse 400 microliters of PBT buffer were added and the filter tube was centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 5 min. Flow through was discarded and another 400 microliters of PBT buffer were added to the upper chamber containing the particles. Particles were then suspended in 200 microliter PBT to yield a 1 w v suspension.

The analyte for this assay was rabbit anti ovalbumin IgG. 1 4 serial dilutions of rabbit anti ovalbumin were prepared in BB to make target solutions of 128 32 8 2 0.5 and 0 pg ml.

Assay steps. 1 microliter of magnetic particles 10 mg ml stock was added to each 800 microliter sample in a 1.7 ml micro centrifuge tube. The samples were mixed for one hour at room temperature Barnstead Thermolyne labquake . Particles were then separated via magnetic separation and supernatant removed. 100 microliters of BB were added and 10 microliters of a 1 10 dilution of ovalbumin modified fluorescent particles were added and the reaction was mixed on a rotator for 15 minutes. 200 microliters of BB were added and the tubes were placed in a magnetic separator and 99 of the supernatant was removed. 200 microliters of BB were then added and samples were transferred to a 96 well plate. A hand held magnet was used to concentrate the magnetic particles and magnetic particle fluorescent particle pairs on the bottom of the well. Sample wells were then imaged on a fluorescent microscope. Representative results are provided in . This preliminary experiment shows a detection limit of approximately 10 picograms ml antibody target.

In the present example 1 micrometer diameter magnetic particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range of 0.01 to 20 micrometers could be used. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range of 0.2 to 10 micrometers could be used. Alternatively magnetic particles in the diameter size range 0.3 to 6 micrometers could be used. It is also noted that magnetic particle size distributions may be monodisperse. Alternatively a range of magnetic particle sizes could be used simultaneously. It is also noted that non spherical magnetic particles could be used.

In the present example commercially available monodisperse polymer shell superparamagnetic particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternative magnetic particle types could be used in this invention. Alternative magnetic particle matrix materials include latex polystyrene agarose and other polymers silica and silica based glass compositions oxides including iron oxides and ceramics. Magnetic particles may also be composite constructions such as core shell particles e.g. metal or metal oxide core with organic polymer shell and polymers incorporating metal oxide subparticles.

In the present example magnetic particles were functionalized with streptavidin to provide immobilization of biotinylated antibodies. Several alternatives to biotin streptavidin binding could be used for protein particle conjugation. Alternative amine reactive coupling chemical reactions include those based on succinimidyl esters such as NHS isothiocyanates isocyanates acyl azides sulfonyl chlorides aldehydes glyoxals epoxides oxiranes carbonates arylating agents imidoesters carbodiimides and anyhydrides. Alternative thiol reactive coupling chemical reactions that could be used include those based on haloacetyl and alkyl halide derivatives maleimides aziridines acrylolyl derivatives arylating agents and thiol disulfide exchange reagents. Alternative carboxylate reactive coupling chemical reactions that could be used include diazoalkanes and diazoacetyl compounds carbonyldiimidazole and carbodiimides. Alternative hydroxyl reactive coupling chemical reactions that could be used include epoxides and oxiranes carbonyldiimidazole N N disuccinimidyl carbonate alkyl halogens isocyanates or oxidation chemistries. Alternative aldehyde reactive or ketone reactive coupling chemical reactions that could be used include hydrazine derivatives Schiff base formation reductive amination and Mannich condensation. Alternative photoreactive coupling chemical reactions that could be used include aryl azides and halogenated aryl azides benzophenones diazo compounds and diazirine derivatives.

In the present example 0.39 micrometer diameter fluorescent particles were used as an exemplary demonstration. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range of 0.01 to 20 micrometers could be used. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range of 0.2 to 10 micrometers could be used. Alternatively fluorescent particles in the diameter size range 0.3 to 6 micrometers could be used. It is also noted that fluorescent particle size distributions may be monodisperse. Alternatively a range of fluorescent particle sizes could be used simultaneously. It is also noted that non spherical fluorescent particles could be used.

The Dark Red Thermo fluorescent particle product used in the example had excitation emission wavelengths centered at 640 660 nm. An alternative fluorescent dye could be used in the blue part of the spectrum excitation 360 to 420 nm and emission 420 to 480 nm green part of the spectrum excitation 450 to 500 nm emission 500 to 540 nm or red part of the spectrum excitation 540 to 590 nm emission 590 to 640 nm . Another alternative fluorescent dye could be used in the infrared part of the spectrum with excitation wavelengths emission 700 nm such as the products from Li Cor Biosciences. The fluorescent particles used In the present example were based on organic dye fluorophores. Alternative luminophores could be used including lanthanides such as europium erbium and terbium based emitters as well as semiconductor based emitters such as quantum dots.

In the present example fluorescent particles were modified via physical adsorption of protein to the particles. Alternatively protein can be covalently attached to the fluorescent particles via the coupling chemistries described for the magnetic particles as listed above.

This experiment demonstrates the directional enhancement of fluorescent particle signal in the context of a particle complex. The experiment is similar to that described in Example II with the exception that larger diameter particles were used to enable better microscopic observation and slower Brownian motion. Magnetic particles were 5.9 micrometer diameter particles from Spherotech. Fluorescent particles were 0.39 micrometer diameter Duke Scientific Dark Red particles labeled with NeutrAvidin as described in previous Examples.

1 nanomolar RNA target was captured with the previously described magnetic particle biotinylated detect probe sandwich. Particle complexes were rinsed three times and incubated with NeutrAvidin fluorescent beads and rinsed before imaging on the microscope as described in Example II. In order to foster particle motion a hand held permanent magnet was slowly waved back and forth near the well being imaged. This gave tumbling motion in the well that led to the flashing effect.

Microscopic video capture Olympus IX 71 fluorescence microscope with a Retiga cooled CCD camera was performed during tumbling at a frame rate of approximately 7 frames per second. A video field of view was then selected that included both a free fluorescent particle and a fluorescent particle linked to a magnetic particle. Within an individual image frame image analysis software Image J was used to calculate integrated intensity i.e. sum of individual pixel intensities over fluorescent particle area for one free fluorescent particle and the one particle linked to a magnetic particle undergoing tumbling motion. Thirteen consecutive frames were analyzed in this manner. The resulting integrated intensity versus time plot is provided in . It was observed that the linked particle shows a very large intensity increase as the fluorescent particle magnetic particle pair rotates through different orientations relative to the detector e.g. as shown in . A large increase in integrated intensity is followed by a decrease in intensity then another increase and finally a decrease over time. In contrast the free fluorescent particle shows relatively constant fluorescence intensity over time as expected. One may readily envision how thresholding analysis may be used to distinguish between free fluorescent particles and magnetic fluorescent particle complexes.

The particles described in Example VII were used to in a similar experiment to compare fluorescence intensities of free fluorescent particles magnetic particle fluorescent particle complexes and non magnetic particle fluorescent particle complexes. For the latter case a 6 micrometer diameter polymer microspheres were functionalized with capture probe as described for the magnetic microspheres in Example II. The RNA target assays were performed as previously described in Example II. No multiple particle complex was observed in the zero target control as expected. Multiple particle complexes were observed in both the 1 picomolar and 10 picomolar target wells. Evidence of the enhanced fluorescence effect is presented by quantitatively measuring the fluorescence signal for oriented particle complexes and free fluorescent particles. Images were collected on an Olympus IX 71 fluorescence microscope with a Retiga cooled CCD camera. For a given camera gain and exposure the free fluorescent particles showed a fluorescence signal of approximately 600 relative fluorescence units RFU reported as average pixel intensity over the particle project area Image J analysis . In contrast when magnetic particle fluorescent particle complexes are oriented in their brightest alignment signal intensity saturates the 12 bit camera. The oriented particle complex fluorescence is therefore at least 7 times more intense than the free fluorescent particle counterpart. In contrast non magnetic particle fluorescent particle complexes did not show the fluorescence enhancement in any orientation.

In this example direct detection of an RNA molecule of 1056 bases transcribed from an in vitro reaction is demonstrated. A plasmid containing a sequence from Influenza A Matrix gene flanked with T7 RNA polymerase promoter was constructed such that it became the template for transcription of a 1056 base RNA InfA M 1056 . The RNA transcript was synthesized using a commercially available kit Qiagen and quantified by UV vis spectroscopy. The materials and general method used in the detection experiment were the same as those described in Example II. Serial dilution of the stock InfA M 1056 RNA was made to generate test solutions of 10 3.3 1.1 0.37 0.12 and 0 femtomolar target molecule in a set of reactions. Signal above zero target was measured at the lowest concentration demonstrating direct detection of a large RNA molecule to sub femtomolar concentration as shown in .

In this example direct detection of specific RNA target sequences from viral cell culture supernatants is demonstrated. Cell cultures were prepared with 10 strains of Influenza A and total RNA was harvested by standard methods. The materials and general method used in the detection experiment were the same as those described in Example II. The quantity of specific sequence RNA corresponding to the Matrix gene as detailed in Example IX was measured by a RT PCR quantitation assay using the IVT RNA InfA M 1056 as reference standard. 0.2 microliters of the 15 microliter aliquots for ten of the supernatants were tested all registering signal well above the zero target controls. shows the number of particle complexes i.e. counts for ten viral supernatants derived from clinical influenza samples numbered 2427 2432. Zero target control samples are indicated as cntl on the plot. Based on the quantitation data the number of target molecules per reaction ranged from 3.8E6 to 1E7 or 12.6 to 33 femtomolars. Counts were in the 100 s to 1000 s representing orders of magnitude excess sensitivity. Serial dilution was performed on one sample See showing measurable counts above zero target controls to target concentration of 2.4E5 molecules or 100 attomolars.

This example demonstrates high sensitivity detection of a viral protein antigen in an antibody sandwich format utilizing a magnetic separation device to isolate fully formed two bead complexes. Monoclonal antibodies to HIV p24 protein were covalently functionalized to magnetic beads via NHS EDC coupling chemistry. Briefly 2.5E8 COOH magnetic beads Life Tech were activated by mixing with equal volumes of 10 mg ml sulfo N Hydroxysuccinimide SNHS Pierce and 10 mg ml 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC Aldrich in 0.1 molar MES buffer for 30 minutes at 25 C. followed by rinsing and resuspension in 1 PBS 0.05 tween20 PBST . 20 micrograms of monoclonal Mouse anti p24 antibody were added and mixed at 25 C. for 1 hour. 100 micrograms of Bovine Serum Albumin BSA Sigma were added and mixed for 30 minutes followed by three magnetic rinses with 100 microliters PBST 1 BSA. NeutrAvidin Pierce was adsorbed to fluorescent beads as described in Example I NA F beads . A second anti HIV p24 monoclonal antibody was biotinylated by chemical functionalization with sulfo NHS LC biotin Pierce . Serial dilutions of p24 antigen Meridian were added to mixtures of 1E7 anti p24 magnetic beads with 0.5 microgram of biotinylated anti p24 antibody in 1 PBS 0.05 tween20 90 Fetal Calf Serum PTS and incubated at 25 C. with rotation for 25 minutes. The samples were washed three times in BB by magnetic separation and 18 microliters of 0.2 NA Fl beads were added followed by 10 minutes incubation at 25 C.

A flow cell was constructed using a proprietary waveguide substrate. The flow cell was placed in a first position over a magnet arrangement such that introduction of the beads target mixture would cause immobilization of substantially all of the multiple particle complexes i.e. complex formed by linked magnetic bead target analyte and fluorescent bead combinations and magnetic beads in the flow cell over the magnet while unbound fluorescent beads would flow through and away from the magnetic zone. Then the flow cell was translated relative to the magnet arrangement in a translation direction orthogonal to the direction of the liquid flow in the fluidic channel of the flow cell so that substantially all of the multiple particle complexes and magnetic beads are moved across the floor of the flow cell into an imaging zone as conceptually illustrated in . Movement of the multiple particle complexes by magnetic translation separates substantially all the bead complexes from remaining free unbound fluorescent beads.

The flow cell was positioned in a primary position of the magnet arrangement and each of the p24 detection mixtures was transferred into the entry ports of the flow cell device. The flow cell was translated at 1 mm second into a secondary position and the resulting multiple particle complexes were imaged on a fluorescence microscope and counted by custom Image macros as described in previous examples See . Then the fluorescent beads of the fully formed complexes were imaged by waveguide illumination on a custom diode laser camera reader device and the integrated fluorescent signal was recorded See . In bead counting mode signal at the lowest target concentration was well above the zero target control signal. Using the integrative mode resulted in lower gross signal thus the first data point above three standard deviations above background was 4.4 picograms per milliliter.

Changes may be made in the above methods and systems without departing from the scope hereof. It should thus be noted that the matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings should be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. The following claims are intended to cover generic and specific features described herein as well as statements of the scope of the present method and system which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

Although each of the aforedescribed embodiments have been illustrated with various components having particular respective orientations it should be understood that the system as described in the present disclosure may take on a variety of specific configurations with the various components being located in a variety of positions and mutual orientations and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore suitable equivalents may be used in place of or in addition to the various components the function and use of such substitute or additional components being held to be familiar to those skilled in the art and are therefore regarded as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the present disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims.

