---

title: Apparatus and methods for processing digital 3D objects
abstract: A digital 3D object processing apparatus is provided, for processing a digital 3D object comprising a plurality of sub-objects belonging to one of a plurality of digital 3D object formats, comprising: a communication unit coupled to a first outer computer through a network; an interface unit coupled to the communication unit, receiving an instruction from the first outer computer; and a control command unit coupled to the communication unit, transmitting a control command to the first outer computer, wherein the first outer computer establishes a relative position of the plurality of sub-objects according to the control command, and transmits the relative position and the plurality of sub-objects to the communication unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08749546&OS=08749546&RS=08749546
owner: Institute for Information Industry
number: 08749546
owner_city: Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20101213
---
This Application claims priority of Taiwan Patent Application No. 99138934 filed on Nov. 12 2010 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosure generally relates to apparatuses and methods for processing digital 3D three dimensions objects and more particularly to apparatuses and methods for processing digital 3D objects comprising a plurality of sub objects for transmission.

Now digital 3D objects often appear in online games product model shows and space shows etc. letting them more immersive.

To avoid issue of servers users are supposed to backup copy or transfer digital 3D objects to their own computers for 3D gaming. The amount of data for digital 3D objects is usually large. For transmission the size of a digital 3D object is limited and transmission rate is slow. Traditionally digital 3D objects are often divided into many smaller objects and transmitted separately. However after being transmitted there is no record of the relative positions of the smaller objects so users must combine the smaller objects by themselves which is inconvenient for users.

Currently there is no apparatus or service for the uploading downloading exchange or trading of digital 3D objects. For example a buyer and a seller must register on the same server when they want to trade or exchange a digital 3D object e.g. a virtual weapon or a virtual armor of an online game. Meanwhile gaming systems and gaming developers usually adopt different 3D file formats e.g. 3D MAX or MAYA. Therefore digital 3D objects can not be transferred among different gaming systems.

In one exemplary embodiment a digital 3D object processing apparatus for processing a digital 3D object is disclosed comprising a plurality of sub objects belonging to one of a plurality of digital 3D object formats. The digital 3D object processing apparatus comprises a communication unit coupled to a first outer computer through a network an interface unit coupled to the communication unit and receiving an instruction from the first outer computer and a control command unit coupled to the communication unit and transmitting a control command to the first outer computer wherein the first outer computer establishes a relative position of the plurality of sub objects according to the control command and transmits the relative position and the plurality of sub objects to the communication unit.

In another exemplary embodiment a digital 3D object processing method for processing a digital 3D object is disclosed comprising a plurality of sub objects belonging to one of a plurality of digital 3D object formats. The digital 3D object processing method comprises receiving by a digital 3D object processing apparatus an instruction from a first outer computer transmitting by the digital 3D object processing apparatus a control command to the first outer computer establishing by the first outer computer a relative position of the plurality of sub objects according to the control command and transmitting by the first outer computer the relative position and the plurality of sub objects to the digital 3D object processing apparatus.

As shown in the communication unit of the digital 3D object processing apparatus is connected to an outer computer through a network . The outer computer may transmit an instruction A through the network and the communication unit to the interface unit of the digital 3D object processing apparatus . After receiving the instruction A the digital 3D object processing apparatus may transmit a control command A to the outer computer . The outer computer may establish a relative position of a plurality of sub objects of a digital 3D object according to the control command A and transmit the relative position and the plurality of sub objects to the communication unit . Moreover the digital 3D object processing apparatus may edit the digital 3D objects according to the instruction A for example by combining a plurality of digital 3D objects dividing one digital 3D object into a plurality of sub objects modifying assets of a digital 3D object or obtaining parts of one or more digital 3D objects to constitute new digital 3D objects. A plurality of digital 3D objects and sub objects received or edited by the digital 3D object processing apparatus can be stored in the database . The database can store the objects in the storage unit or in another independent device e.g. a server a computer electrically connected to the control command unit and the communication unit .

In detail the control command unit transmits a control command A through the communication unit and the network to the outer computer . The digital 3D object processing apparatus is configured to process a digital 3D object. The digital 3D object may comprise a plurality of sub objects that belong to one of a plurality of digital 3D object formats e.g. 3D MAX format MAYA format. The outer computer may receive the digital 3D object from the digital 3D object processing apparatus and establish an application programming interface according to the control command A. Then the outer computer may establish a relative position of the plurality of sub objects and 3D representation of geometric data e.g. a digital 3D object composed of two sub objects wherein one of the sub objects a vase is on the other sub object a desk through the application programming interface according to the control command A. The outer computer may transmit the plurality of sub objects the relative position and the 3D representation of geometric data to the communication unit of the digital 3D object processing apparatus . The storage unit is connected to the communication unit to store the plurality of sub objects and the relative position. In another embodiment the plurality of sub objects may be part of the digital 3D object and not a complete object e.g. the sub object can be part of a vase like the bottom of the vase.

The format conversion unit can convert the sub objects from the original digital 3D object format to another digital 3D object format for example convert the sub objects from 3D MAX to MAYA. Moreover the digital 3D object processing apparatus may provide a preview image IMG of the digital 3D object for the outer computer to preview according to the relative position the plurality of sub objects and the 3D representation of geometric data. In addition the network can be further connected to another outer computer which may be another user. The relative position and the plurality of sub objects can be transmitted by the digital 3D object processing apparatus to the outer computer through the communication unit and the network .

For example the communication unit may be connected to the outer computer through the network the interface unit may receive a preview instruction and a download instruction from the outer computer through the communication unit and the control command unit may transmit a preview image of a digital 3D object to the outer computer according to the preview instruction e.g. display the preview image of the digital 3D object on a browser or an application operation interface of the outer computer . In order to download digital 3D objects a download instruction may be provided by the outer computer . The control command unit may transmit the digital 3D objects to the outer computer according to the download instruction. The transmission method can be as that shown in .

In another embodiment after the digital 3D object processing apparatus receives the instruction A from the outer computer e.g. the outer computer the control command unit transmits the control command A to the outer computer . The control command A may allow connection of the outer computer to the outer computer through the network and transmit the plurality of sub objects and the relative position to the outer computer . Note that there is no need to transmit the plurality of sub objects and the relative position and store them in the storage unit of the digital 3D object processing apparatus .

In conclusion the digital 3D object processing apparatus can receive a digital 3D object having different kinds of digital 3D object formats and convert them into a new digital 3D object format. Therefore digital 3D objects from different gaming systems can be interchanged through the digital 3D object processing apparatus solving the problem where digital 3D object formats can not be shared among different gaming systems. By using the digital 3D object processing apparatus it is not necessary for users to be limited to share or trade digital 3D objects in a same server. Thus the utility rate of basic digital 3D objects is increased and the time used for constructing gaming backgrounds is decreased. Digital 3D objects may serve as a product shown and sold by using the digital 3D object processing apparatus thus increasing business opportunities.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the invention. It is intended that the standard and examples be considered as exemplary only with the true scope of the disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims and their equivalents.

