---

title: Methods and apparatus for title structure and management
abstract: A title management apparatus resident on a first computer including a memory for storing a control program and data, and a processor for executing the control program and for managing the data. The apparatus includes user data resident in the memory including a set of user security indicia. The apparatus also includes a first title object resident in the memory including a title structure, the title structure further comprising a content element, a set of attributes, and a set of title object security indicia. The apparatus further includes a set of stub objects coupled to the title object, wherein the set of stub objects can further optimize the title structure; an authorization structure configured to selectively redeem the content element based at least in part of the user security indicia; and, a title management structure configured to associate a user with the first title object based at least in part of the user data and the title attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571992&OS=08571992&RS=08571992
owner: OnCircle, Inc.
number: 08571992
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100303
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 440 286 filed on May 15 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 232 861 filed on Aug. 30 2002 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 380 787 filed May 15 2002 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 407 466 filed Aug. 30 2002 and Provisional Application No. 60 407 382 filed Aug. 30 2002 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The invention relates to an advanced title and transaction network. In particular the invention provides an architecture and operation for the facilitation of the creation ownership exchange management reselling marketing bartering and auctioning of titles over an electronic network such as the Internet.

The Internet has become an efficient mechanism for globally distributing digital content such as documents pictures music and other types of digital content. Information can now be transmitted directly and instantly across the Internet from the content owner to the content buyer without having to first convert it into physical form such as paper documents compact disks photographs etc.

However the advantage of easy digital communication has also allowed digital content to be easily pirated by just about anyone with a computer and Internet access. The combination of high speed broadband Internet access digital content compression software which reduces the size of digital content files peer to peer file trading networks which allows users to post content files and lack of a viable digital rights standard has caused the content owners to lose control of their content. Consequently content owners are experiencing a loss of potential revenue.

The lack of a standardized and transparent digital rights management system however is preventing a commercially viable solution from emerging. In order for such a system to be commercially viable the system should be secure both from the user s and the content owner s standpoint universal so that electronic device manufactures are encouraged to engineer it into their products and transparent so that users are not required to change their behavior.

Existing systems that attempt to provide confidence between buyers include escrow agreements third party confirmations third party appraisals and other similar techniques. These systems are slow and complex and they do not provide the content user with sufficient confidence that the buyers and sellers are not illegally replicating the content or otherwise attempting to sell pirated copies of works.

In addition to the pirating aspects associated with sharing digital content users are burdened with less than ideal methods for legally sharing digital content. These cumbersome methods include transferring entire files to other users via electronic mail instant messenger peer to peer and other applications or sharing hyperlinks via electronic mail instant messenger and other applications. These methods can be viewed as counter productive anti social and even bothersome to the users that receive or attempt to share the content. Sharing of entire digital content such as music via electronic mail is a drain on resources and inefficient to the electronic mail servers the network and the receiving users. Sharing of hyperlinks can lead to broken links complex URL Universal Resource Locator strings and restrictions on the type of content that can be shared i.e. linked to . Compatibility problems are widespread and create frustration when sharing digital content of a specific media type.

What is needed are advanced techniques for controlling the trading of digital rights so that the buyers are assured of an authentic copy fair use is preserved for the copy and content owners are fairly compensated. In addition advanced techniques are employed to provide an easy friendly efficient and adaptable method for users to share digital content.

The invention relates in one embodiment to a title management apparatus resident on a first computer including a memory for storing a control program and data and a processor for executing the control program and for managing the data. The apparatus includes user data resident in the memory including a set of user security indicia. The apparatus also includes a first title object resident in the memory including a title structure the title structure further comprising a content element a set of attributes and a set of title object security indicia. The apparatus further includes a set of stub objects coupled to the title object wherein the set of stub objects can further optimize the title structure an authorization structure configured to selectively redeem the content element based at least in part of the user security indicia and a title management structure configured to associate a user with the first title object based at least in part of the user data and the title attributes.

The invention relates in another embodiment to a method of managing title objects in a first computer having a memory. The method includes configuring user data resident in the memory including a set of user security indicia. The method also includes configuring a first title object resident in the memory including a title structure the title structure further comprising a content element a set of attributes and a set of title object security indicia. The method further includes coupling a set of stub objects to the title object wherein the set of stub objects can further optimize the title structure configuring an authorization structure configured to selectively redeem the content element based at least in part of the user security indicia and configuring a title management structure configured to associate a user with the first title object based at least in part of the user data and the title attributes.

Advantages of the invention include the ability to easily and efficiently manage and share titles over a network such as the Internet.

The invention is directed to the creation ownership exchange management reselling marketing bartering and auctioning of titles.

In this context a title is an object that may have a number of elements and attributes including embedded digital content ownership attributes copy permissions and others as described herein. A title can also represent the rights to a single piece of digital content or a single resource or it can represent the rights to a multitude of digital content and resources and in a variety of formats. The digital content rights such as the ability to exchange or copy are determined by the content publisher. Furthermore a title can also represent the rights to another title or multitude of titles which in turn express rights to digital content or resources.

Users can initiate a variety of exchanges with each other depending on the type of title and the rules associated with that title. These exchanges can take the form of trades or transfers. In the case of trades offers can be reviewed and then subsequently accepted canceled or a counter offer can be presented. The counter offer process can continue until satisfaction or until trade is canceled.

In order to help protect the integrity of the trade a chained hash cryptographic technique is used to guarantee that only a single instance of the title is in circulation at any one point in time. The title management and publisher structure may perform verification on the chained hash to ensure its integrity. The chained hash technique may be implemented in such a way as to provide benefits typically associated with one time password and digital cash systems. However this implementation may be modified to provide a high degree of integrity around the use of titles within the ecosystem.

The chained hash technique can be combined with additional controls that work in conjunction with the security classification element to provide varying degrees of security for the title and the digital content referred to by the title. These additional controls may include cryptographic key splitting techniques as well as multi user and multi factor authentication. Security class is an element that resides in the title to convey the level of security appropriate for this title. Security class is set by the publisher based on the publisher s requirements and rules. Security class can be used within the ecosystem to determine appropriate handling of the title. For example a title with a high security rating of 5 can force strong authentication of the user as well as strong encryption of the digital content associated with the title. As an example a multi user authentication requirement can be used for parental controls whereby a guardian must also provide authentication and acceptance on the purchase and use of a title where a minor is involved.

The content rating system can be used by publishers to determine appropriate ratings for their content and these ratings can be enforced by title management and resolver apparatus to ensure guardian approval. Content rating is an element within the content element to convey a rating regarding the suitability of the content. The rating system is dependent on the type of content and the regulatory factors involved e.g. music video movie etc. .

The exchange structure specification and rules provide the ability for the title publisher and or the title owner to determine the exchange capabilities of subsequent owners of the title. For example a title publisher could limit a title owner to only one trade or even to deny trades but allow transfers. A title owner may transfer the title to another person for a limited period of time and deny that person any ability to trade or transfer. This ability to set limitations may operate in conjunction with the rules structure.

A trust structure is also implemented to provide users with a simple ability to validate the digital content they receive. The trust structure may convey that the digital content was if applicable rightfully issued by the content publisher. Content publishers are not bound to use the trust structure for the titles they issue but in doing so can provide assurances to the buyer.

The invention is described with reference to specific apparatus and embodiments. Those skilled in the art may recognize that the description is for illustration and to provide the best mode of practicing the invention. For example references are made to computer servers and clients but in a peer to peer network any computer is capable of acting in either role. Likewise reference is made to Internet protocol while any substantially comparable data transmission protocol can be used.

The users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles. A digital content file stored within a content publishing structure is redeemed through a pointer stored within is respective title. This pointer indicates the location of the digital content file. However since this location could have changed since the title was created a resolver structure substitutes the updated digital content file address if needed.

Redemption can occur in various ways. For example the digital content file could be downloaded in its entirety or it could be streamed to one of the client computers and then viewed or listened locally. If the digital content file is already stored locally redemption could allow access or playability. In the case of an online game or chat application redemption of the digital content file could authorize participation.

In another embodiment depicts a title management apparatus wherein a title management structure and an authorization structure are resident on computer while the content publishing structure and a resolver structure are resident on computer . Both computer and computer are coupled over a network to computers which may be owned by users of the system. As in the users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles.

In another embodiment depicts a title management apparatus wherein a title management structure and an authorization structure are resident on computer while the resolver structure is resident on computer and the title publishing structure is resident on computer . Computers are coupled over a network to computers which may be owned by users of the system. As in the users log on to title management apparatus over the network and are authorized to perform certain functions and access certain data based on their ownerships and permissions in order to manage resell market barter or auction their respective titles.

The title transaction system may provide the ability for users to manage their profile information and to generate titles for accessing profile information. For example this functionality can be used by someone to easily create a business card title and distribute that title to their associates. The title in this case would be a tag that refers that is points to their business card profile elements containing as an example their name title business address and business contact information. In an other example some else could create an emergency profile card and distribute it to specific people so that in an emergency they would have access to certain personal information such as name medical insurance number allergies health risks and emergency contacts. In this particular case the title could be a ticket. The title transaction system provides for close integration of profile information to provide significant value add for the user as they participate in a community where communication purchasing trading auctioning and bartering are common place.

As depicted in the title object has at least one stub object associated with it in order to verify the integrity and valid instance of the title. In addition to identifiers the stub object may contain security indicia such as the indicia required by the chained hash technique in order to validate the single instance and valid ownership of the title. This stub object may change state on every redemption exchange and revocation of the title.

The title object may have more than one stub object associated with it in order to convey additional information controls content or other value add not explicitly given in the original title. The stub object provides extensibility to the title without requiring a complete replacement to the title object. As an example a value add reseller such as a retail merchant may attach additional content or value to the original title in order to promote their product or even to make the original title more attractive for sale or trade. In another example an additional control stub maybe attached to the original title in order to ensure appropriate handling of the title for use by minors such as ensuring that only an edited version of the content is viewed. The use of the stub object is flexible to ensure extensibility of the title object.

As depicted in the stub object can contain a digital signature element in order to verify the integrity of the stub. Although the stub is viewed as an extension to the title the stub can be digitally signed by any participant in the ecosystem. This permits a flexible architecture where multiple participants can collaborate on adding value to a title object.

The system employs a set of specification and rules for structuring creating managing handling and using titles. The specification and rules as well as the format of the title are extensible to support the needs of both the user and content publisher as well as the needs of intermediary systems within the ecosystem that handle or interact with titles.

In the exemplary embodiment a tag is a title object that can be copied among users a token is a title object that cannot be copied like a tag but can be transferred or exchanged between users and a ticket is a title object that is issued to a specific user and hence cannot be copied or transferred among users.

A channel support structure is responsible for communicating with users and is associated with the communication procedures . The channel support communicates over the network using a number of possible protocols including HTTP hyper text transfer protocol SMTP simple mail transfer protocol SMS short messaging service and others.

The title protocol may define a standard set of protocol bindings to describe how title transactions are communicated across those protocols. However the title protocol specification may define extensions so that the title protocol can be bound to other underlying protocols as required within the ecosystem. When an inbound message is received by the channel support the message is passed along to a number of other structures that decode transform and interact with the message. For example a transform structure performs a transform on the inbound data request to conform it to a normalized application interface for a core title transaction application. The use of the transform layer at this point provides standardized parsing of the transaction as it proceeds through the pipeline to the core title transaction application. A tracker acts as a transaction filter to maintain a log of all the inbound messages and requests. A rule structure then applies a number of possible rules to the message. The rule structure obtains its rule sets from several sources including the title itself as defined in the title format data storage through the data abstraction portion and extensions that can support the retrieval of rules through other sources such as via the network. The rules include characteristics for each title for example whether it can be refunded exchanged played viewed etc. Often the functions that can be performed on a given title are related to the title type. For example in the exemplary embodiment titles of type tag can be freely distributed to all users titles of type ticket are tied to a specific user and cannot be exchanged and titles of type token can be exchanged with other users. When a title of type token is exchanged with another user the user can no longer redeem that title and the system may disable any offline content associated with the title.

For instance the content element within a title can contain an encrypted password that is not known to the user. A program for viewing or playing the offline content such as Windows Media Player would read the title through an application program interface check the rule sets and then execute content such as an MP3 file using the encrypted password. Once a user exchanges the title with another user the rule sets would be modified to reflect that that the user no longer has rights to the content and the content itself could not be played or viewed.

The rules associated to the title are developed and applied by the content publisher and by the user or someone acting on behalf of the user . The title management and title publisher modules may provide an application and interface to easily develop and apply rules to the titles. For example a content publisher may apply usage rules applicable to the title and the digital content and or resource it provides evidence of rights to. In turn a user may apply default rules within the title management module to assist in controlling and protecting their actions related to certain titles for example to prevent from accidentally trading a valuable title . In another example a parent may establish restrictions on the type of content their child may access and use in their title management module.

Specialized rules called triggers may also be used. Triggers are rules that invoke actions that are external to the title management apparatus. For instance a parent can be notified by email that a child wishes to redeem a digital content file for which there is some age restriction.

Specialized rules called timers may also be used. Timers are rules that invoke actions based on a specific time or based on a spent amount of time. For example a title may only be good for twenty four hours or an exchange may only be valid for one week. Timers maybe combined with triggers in rule processing.

The core title transaction application core TTS is the application that verifies the ownership of the titles by the users and that authenticates the titles and selectively permits the titles to be transferred if such rights are allowed. Among the modules that may be contained within the core TTS application are the following 

 a A title manager module performs management functions on titles such as organizing deleting adding transferring trading copying backing up viewing and redeeming. In addition to basic title functionality the title manager module can provide sophisticated and value add features to allow the user a better online experience such as chat where real time redemption and trading are available during the chat session. Furthermore features such as sorting categorizing searching and notify can be made available to the user. As an example a sophisticated search capability can be implemented whereby the user can search the network for other users titles available for bid transaction makers or even a secure and trusted third party lockbox with which to conduct a trade. This sophisticated discovery process may be an integral part of the TTS ecosystem. The title manager module is the primary application component that the user may interact with on a regular basis. The title manager module maybe designed to be a single user or multi user application depending on the specific use of the module. A single user version can be used in a peer to peer network whereas a multi user version can be deployed with consumer aggregators. The title manager implements a lockbox feature that is responsible for securely executing trades between two parties. The lockbox provides storage for titles being traded and provides a secure environment where users can verify trades view samples and accept a trade. Upon acceptance of the trade by all parties involved the lockbox may execute the trade and provide each party with an updated title and stub object pair that evidences their new rights. The lockbox feature of the title manager can be implemented as a standalone service so that a trusted third party can provide secure execution of trades.

 b A transaction tracker module performs the basic task of tracking all inbound and outbound transactions whether successful or not. The tracker module is configurable by the user to determine the level of tracking to be performed based on the user s requirements. The tracker may be used to provide a record of all transactions performed by the user such as trades and transfers. The tracker may be used by all core TTS components for creating a record of all transactions for example those performed by the resolver and content publisher . The tracker may record transactions in a data repository using the data abstraction portion.

 c A rules builder module performs the task of building rules to be associated with the titles and processing of the titles. The rules builder module may provide an easy to use interface for the user to create and build rules that can be embedded within a title or used during the processing of a title. Rules that are not embedded within a title may be stored in a data repository using the data abstraction portion. The rules builder may provide an extension capability to apply rules developed external to the rules builder ensuring the adaptability of title processing.

 d A title resolver module that the important task of resolving all titles presented. This process involves all applicable tasks to the title presented including verifying integrity of the title validating the title ensuring ownership of the title decoding and decrypting the necessary title elements and retrieving the content or resource requested. The title resolver may be responsible for executing and acting upon rules and triggers that are applicable to the title presented. An additional function of the resolver would be to refresh old titles. For example if information contained within a title became outdated this information could be automatically refreshed either by replacing the title completely or by adding a new stub object that updates the information. In addition the title resolver may invoke additional processes as required such as the CODEC module.

 e A state server module that maintains and verifies state associated with the use of titles throughout the ecosystem. The state server may work in conjunction with the title resolver in order to verify the validity of the title and generate new stub objects associated with the title on every redemption and exchange. The state server may be a high capacity high availability and high performance system that can be widely distributed and chained in order to perform fast validation for titles in use. The state server may perform functions and algorithms associated with the chained hash one time password and key splitting techniques.

 f A title publisher module performs the tasks associated with publishing that is creating new titles . The title publisher provides an easy to use interface for a user to identify organize and group new content or resources and then generate a new title or title template that points to that digital content or those resources. Titles can be generated on the fly and immediately by the title publisher which would then invoke the title manager to store the newly generated titles. Alternatively the title publisher can generate new title templates that would describe the contents of the title but would not immediately generate a title. Title templates could be used in a variety of ways by the content publisher for example by the content publisher s online shopping site to automatically generate titles when a buyer purchases new content. The content publisher stores work in progress such as grouped publishing efforts in a data repository using the data abstraction portion. Title publishers may provide sophisticated functionality to enhance the online experience for content publishers such as organizing content and title publishing into projects sharing projects and allowing community projects. Workgroup and workflow capabilities can be built into the title publisher as well as creating single user and multi user versions. As an example a multi user version can be implemented by a consumer aggregator or service provider in order to perform title publishing activities on behalf of a user community. Enhanced features may provide additional value to people using the title publisher such as verifying pointers to content files and resources automatically obtaining icons and even pushing titles and content out to servers.

 g A rating system module performs rating tasks on transaction records to support billing requirements. The rating system may be flexible to support the variety of billing options required within the ecosystem. The rating system may act on transaction data but may maintain separation between the data sets to ensure integrity of the transaction log.

 h A CODEC module performs coding and decoding functions on the content retrieved by the title resolver. The primary purpose of this module is to encapsulate content in a secure package as determined by the security required of the title and established by the rules. For example this module can perform digital watermarking of music and image content and it can also be used to encrypt the content in a traditional digital rights management package. Additionally the CODEC can be used by the resolver to decode contents within the title before processing by the resolver. The CODEC may provide mechanisms to support these functions as required within the ecosystem.

 i A billing interface module provides an interface to the billing system operated by the user or entity running any of the core TTS components or modules.

 j A transaction viewer module provides an interface for the user to view transactions recorded by the transaction tracker.

 k A content interface module performs the tasks associated with retrieving the content. This module may generally be invoked by the resolver. The content interface module may be extensible to support a variety of content and resource systems in use by content publishers.

 l A synch replication module performs synchronization and replication across components and modules within the TTS system. This is required for a number of functions including but not limited to synchronization and replication of transaction log entries synchronization of titles across title management modules in a highly distributed environment and replication of title databases to support redundancy and high availability.

 m A crypto interface module performs symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic functions as required within the TTS ecosystem.

 n An authentication and authorization module performs the type authentication and authorization required by and specified by the title or other ecosystem configurations. Authentication may not be required in certain instances or can be as simple as providing an identifier for free use. Strong authentication may be required for other instances and may be enforced by the ecosystem components. Strong authentication can take the form of two factor such as Smartcard and PIN or via mobile phone using a SIM card and a PIN or via any other supported method such as a SecurID token card. In basic form authentication may be a username and password. Authorization may provide fine grained access control to core TTS applications as well as to use titles within the ecosystem. Authorization may be based on rules established within titles and configured as part of the implementation of core TTS applications.

 o A payment interface module provides an interface to a payment system operated by a user or entity of the core TTS components and modules. This permits real time and batch processing of payment requests as configured by the user or entity.

 p A cache management module performs basic caching functions of the content or resources retrieved by the title system. This function may provide performance benefits using cached content versus retrieving new content on every request for the same content.

 q A user registration module performs registration of new users into the core TTS components and modules. This may be used to establish new users in a single user environment such as peer to peer as well as establish new users in a multi user environment such as that hosted by a consumer aggregator. A consumer aggregator is an entity that provides services to a consumer base i.e. ISP mobile operator etc. .

 r A transaction maker module performs transaction maker functions such as operating an exchange for the sale of titles perform licensing of content represented by the titles maintaining a book of trades closing and clearing trade transactions and performing additional value add as determined by the market.

 s An intelligent data retrieval and query module integrated with the data abstraction portion in order to perform intelligent searches and queries on a variety of data in a variety of disparate locations. The IDRQ module can combine map and match data before presenting it to requesting applications through the data abstraction portion. Persistence and caching can be developed into the IDRQ module to enhance performance on multiple and frequent queries searches.

 t A web crawler module performs searches on the web to catalog content and provide a mechanism to automatically generate titles that represent the content that has been discovered. The web crawler module can be used statically or dynamically executed based on configuration of the implementation and or on inbound requests. The web crawler module could interface with the intelligent data retrieval and query system attached to the data abstraction layer for intelligent searches and retrieval of web content.

 u A discovery mechanism that can be used by all appropriate modules for discovering TTS resources that may be available on the network. The discovery mechanism may allow TTS modules to participate in a peer to peer environment as well as collaborate on activities. The discovery process can ensure that trust third parties are available for conducting secure transactions and well as simplifying the user and content publisher experience for clearing titles through the ecosystem.

In the outbound stream from the core TTS the rules structure then performs certain functions on the outbound information according to rules stored in the data and or embedded in the title. The tracker checks to ensure that the outbound information matches the inbound requests so that no inbound messages are dropped or ignored and that outbound message are responding to legitimate inbound messages. The tracker may log transactions in accordance with the configuration. The transform converts the outbound information from a normalized format into a format that conforms to a user profile or preference as well as based on incoming requests for particular transforms. For example the data can be transformed into WML for display on a WAP enabled phone or into HTML for display on a web browser. Certain transforms can be executed based on rules established within the system. The profile or preference data as well as the transform templates are retrieved from the data portion in order to perform the transform. Finally the channel support communicates with the user of the network in a native protocol format.

In another embodiment depicts a logical structure of the invention as deployed in an ecosystem according to an embodiment of the invention. The ecosystem is comprised of a number of entities each providing a service of benefit to the overall system and each connected to the other using some type of network protocol.

The title manager content publisher transaction maker content creator and hosting provider are coupled to each other using a network protocol such as TCPIP over the Internet. The client device can be coupled to title manager content publisher and transaction maker using any one of a number of network protocols. Among these are HTTP E Mail SMTP and SMS .

Initially the content creator creates a digital content file such as an MP3 song as well as a title associated with the digital content file. The creating user interacts with a display as shown in and described in detail below. The digital content file is transmitted across the network protocol to hosting provider where it is stored until a content publisher desires to make it available to users with a client device . The content creator also transmits the title to the title manager using network protocol .

Users desiring the digital content file may access the transaction maker using the client device . Transaction maker functions as a marketplace where digital content buyers and sellers can transact with each other in a secure environment. When a user agrees to buy the digital content file from a seller in this case the content publisher the transaction maker communicates this to the title manager which in turn modifies the title of the digital content file with the new rights just purchased by the user. The user can now redeem the digital content file from the content publisher and download it to the client device .

If the user desires to transfer the title to a new user and the title s security indicia allows it the user can become a digital content seller and post an offer to transfer the title on transaction maker . As before when a new user agrees to buy the digital content file from the user the transaction maker communicates this to the title manager which in turn modifies the title of the digital content file with the new rights just purchased by the new user. The buyer can now redeem the digital content file from the content publisher and download it to the client device . The seller can no longer access the digital content file on the content publisher .

In this example the user selected mySongArtist 3 in the title folder pane and is displayed the owned titles to mySongArtist 3 songs . From this display the user has the option to play the song on the user s client computer trade the title to the song to another user or delete the title altogether.

If the user selects one of mySongArtist 3 songs a more detailed title content pane appears as shown in . In this pane a description of the song is displayed along with the music type category and rating. A picture such as an album cover can be also displayed. As is the user has the option to play the song on the user s client computer trade the title to the song to another user or delete the title altogether.

For example if the user chooses to trade mySong 3 a trade Preparation pane appears as shown in . Aside from the information that was previously displayed in the title content pane of additional information is displayed such as a valid from date field a quantity field a value field and an exchange limit field . The user can also view a sample of mySong 3.

The user must select whether to trade or transfer the title of mySong 3 with another user. Additionally the user may be asked if they would like to list it on a barter site list on barter site or post it to a transaction maker site post to transaction maker . The user can enter description of the mySong 3 in the description field as well as a note in the Personal Note field to the user with whom the trade is being transacted. In the trade with whom field the user enters the e mail or mobile phone number of the user with whom they wish to trade. Once this information is substantially complete the user selects the user selectable button trade title to proceed or the user selectable button cancel to cancel the transaction.

The e mail and mobile phone numbers are used to provide examples of identifying trading parties. The title transaction system has been designed with a flexible and extensible title format to accept and support a variety of naming schemes including but not limited to domain name phone numbers X.500 naming and LDAP.

The display is divided into two sections a new project pane and a project list pane . A project is a set of digital content files that share the same title object. If the user opens myprojectName 3 for example a project detail display appears as in .

Digital content files can be quickly added to a project by entering the name of the directory in which they are located into user input field and selecting the add files user selectable button . Furthermore information contained in the title is shown and can be modified through fields the project detail pane such as name field creator field type field category field description field location field quantity field value field mime type field rating field sample at field and icon field . When the users wish to save the information in the title the user selectable button update is selected.

The business tab as shown contains the following fields company came web site work phone work email job title and work address . As in when the users wish to save the information in the profile the submit changes button is selected.

Current online payment systems commonly require bank cards such as Visa or Master Card. In order to complete a purchase customers must enter the bank card account information along with personal contact information into an online form at the merchant Internet site. Often the information is stored by the merchant to simplify future customer purchases. For instance instead of having to re enter the information the customer can just authenticate with a login and password and complete the purchase.

Customer fears about data security and confidentiality however have inhibited ecommerce growth. And although security systems have greatly improved criminal sophistication has also increased. Customers are not only inconvenienced with having to enter and re enter account information at every merchants site they are also concerned with propagation of their account information protection of their privacy at each of the merchants site and tracking of their habits and activities online.

Because of the distributed and anonymous nature of the Internet online merchants are prone to both fraudulent bank card transactions and malicious hacking attacks. These same merchants however cannot remain in business if their attempts to increase security result in unintended customer frustration. Modern payment systems must both enhance the customer buying experience and be secure. A modern payment system must also support anonymous payment methods similar to the physical cash schemes that are currently in use throughout the world.

Consumer s device presents the user interface of the online title manager and wallet through which titles and digital content files are managed transacted and delivered. The device can be almost any type of computing device that can communicate with the DCE including desktop computers laptops PDA s and mobile phones. The title manager located in the DCE provides title management services to the consumer such as adding viewing and trading titles. Additionally the title manager provides wallet functionality for viewing accounts currencies and receipts as well as handling payment processing on behalf of the consumer. Optionally the functionality offered by both the consumer s device and the DCE can be packaged in a number of ways including a completely integrated application to be run on a consumer s device such as a desktop computer.

The merchant site is an online merchant system that provides both web based and e commerce functionality such as catalog product information product configurators shopping pages shopping cart and payment services. While only one merchant site is shown in the diagram the invention can support any number of merchant sites. The merchant site is further comprised of title enabled components as shown in . As shown in the merchant site can include a title manager title publisher digital lockbox and title merchant plugin . All components are optionally operated by the merchant but are generally available to merchants that are title enabled. The title manager provides the merchant with management functions for titles that they own or potentially for customers. The title publisher allows the merchant to publish titles such as the titles that may be given to customers that reference customer s rights to digital content file s. The digital lockbox is an example where the merchant hosts the lockbox for trading purposes instead of a third party service. The title merchant plugin provides payment support services for the merchant including communication with digital lockboxes title verification and an interface with payment providers. While only one component of each type is shown the invention can support any number of components to be hosted by the merchant.

The third party digital lockbox in is an application that provides a temporary and secure safe harbor for all transaction titles until title rights are established. While only one digital lockbox is shown the invention can support any number of digital lockboxes. It is generally hosted somewhere in the network by the merchant or a trusted third party escrow service. For instance a title may be released to the consumer from lockbox once the purchase is completed. As shown in the merchant site can also host a digital lockbox to provide a mechanism for supporting the payment process that is supporting exchange transactions in lieu of a third party service.

The title enabled payment provider is an online payment provider service that is title enabled in that they can support title based transactions. While only one title enabled payment provider is shown the invention can support any number of title enabled payment providers. In addition to supporting titles a title enabled payment provider would provide services typical of a payment provider such as payment processing gateways to payment networks and merchant accounts. As shown in a title enabled payment provider can operate title enabled components such as title manager title publisher and digital lockbox . These components would provide the same services to the payment provider as similar components provided to the merchant site .

Each of the system elements shown in and are coupled to the other using a network protocol such as TCP IP over the Internet. Furthermore consumers can access online title manager functions directly within merchant sites if they are permitted. For instance payment options shown at the merchant site reflect those available in the online title manager but other options can be added.

As previously described a title is an object that may have a number of elements and attributes including embedded digital content ownership attributes and copy permissions. In this example a consumer wishes to buy a product or service from a merchant using a title transaction. A purchasing transaction generally comprises two or more separate titles a product title or titles being offered by the merchant and a payment slip title or payment titles being offered by the consumer. The product title or titles give the title owner specific rights to the product for instance the ability to play a song. The payment slip title is a financial instrument that authorizes a payment provider to pay the merchant for any product titles purchased. Once the transaction is complete the consumer would be in possession of the product title or titles and the merchant would be in possession of the payment slip title or payment titles.

For instance a customer would use a web browser on customer s device to access a merchant site through online title manager . When the merchant site determines that the transaction is title enabled it presents the product title choices and displays the consumer s title payment options. Once items are selected for purchase the merchant site places the product titles in a digital lockbox generates a pre filled sales order title comprising transaction details including a transaction number product title information purchase detail and information on the digital lockbox . The sales order title functions as an electronic invoice or promise of payment for the merchant .

The sales order is transmitted back to title manager and stored for the consumer to view select payment type and approve using the consumer device . Once approved by the consumer the title publisher may generate a payment slip title using the sales order title as a guide. The payment slip title is transmitted to the digital lockbox and the merchant is notified. The merchant verifies the payment slip title in the digital lockbox and completes the transaction by releasing the product titles to the customer. A receipt title can also be generated and included in the transaction if requested or required. The merchant then captures payment from the customer by forwarding the completed payment slip title to the title payment provider for payment. Alternatively the merchant can use a standard collection process such as that used for credit card processing and deal directly with a traditional payment provider .

As described previously a sales order title is created by the title publisher operated by the merchant site as shown in . The sales order title is used as an invoice and sent to the consumer s title manager shown in . The consumer s title publisher may create a payment slip title using sales order title as a guide. The sales order title is similar to previous titles but may instead contain sales order information within the content element. depicts an exemplary sales order detail section that would be included within a title similar to the currency detail being included in and payment detail being included in . The sales order detail contains merchant detail order summary information order detail payment detail trade detail and consumer payment logic . Order summary provides summary information on the order including order number total price and taxes. Order detail provides line item detail for each product offered for sale including unit and extended pricing. Payment detail provides detail definitions for the terms and conditions as well as the accepted payment types such as Visa Mastercard bank card and cash. Trade detail provides information regarding the trade product titles for payment titles such as the location of the digital lockbox . Consumer payment logic defines logic statements that can control how a payment slip is generated. These are basically instructions to the title publisher for handling specific payment mechanisms.

The title content pane presents summarized information for account currency or receipt titles. Title content pane also allows the consumer to modify authorized entries within the titles. For example the user has selected the dollars currency title . This displays a summary of the currency amounts contained with the title as well as allows the user to top up the account with additional currency.

The exchange of paper business cards has been a familiar part of business for many years. The advent of the Internet enabled business cards to be digitized and the exchange to be electronic. And while this was certainly easier and faster digital business cards still suffered from the static content inherited from paper business cards. Previously there had been no optimal way to update transmitted digital business cards short of permanently maintaining distribution lists and re transmitting the updated digital business cards themselves.

The hosted digital commerce engine DCE is intended to depict an example implementation of the invention whereby the DCE hosts the title enabled systems on behalf of consumers that use devices to access the DCE. The title enabled systems include the profile manager that stores and manages the consumers profile information including their contact information the title manager that stores and manages the consumer s titles and the title publisher that generates titles for the DCE. In other embodiments of the invention these title enabled systems may reside independently of each other or even be integrated into a desktop application.

The electronic mail system short message service system and instant messenger system depict external systems that can be used to transmit and deliver titles to other consumers that may or may not use an online title enabled solution. Each of these systems would transmit Titles using their own network protocols and network systems. For example an electronic mail system can deliver a title as an attachment to an electronic message using the SMTP protocol. The recipient can retrieve the message using the POP3 protocol and open the attachment in a title enabled application.

An additional hosted digital commerce engine is shown in to demonstrate that consumers on separate DCEs can share contact information between each other. In this case the hosted digital commerce engine provides the same title enabled components and service as the first engine .

As previously described a title is an object that may have a number of elements and attributes including embedded digital content ownership attributes and copy permissions. In this example a contact title can redeem a single contact record such as an electronic business card or a contact list composed of multiple contact records as in business directory. The contact record contains information that would be commonly found in a business card such as full name company name address phone number email etc. The contact title comprises as a pointer to the location of the contact record or contact list. That is it directs the title management system to the specific online profile manager upon which the contact record or contact list resides.

For instance a contact owner creates a single contact record and stores it on a specific profile manager . The owner then requests a contact title which would then be generated by the title publisher and stored in the title manager for distribution by the contact owner to users. Users could then use the contact title to redeem the latest contact record whenever needed.

The profile manager can store any type and quantity of information on behalf of the user including business personal financial preference and emergency information. Furthermore any variation of contact titles can also be generated by the title publisher on behalf of the user. The titles can be any number of tags tickets or tokens as deemed necessary by the user. For instance a tag can be published that points to business contact information as described previously. This tag can then be freely copied and distributed to other business recipients. By redeeming the tag the recipient will only be able to dynamically read the business contact information from the profile. Alternatively a ticket can be published that points a trusted business associate to financial information. This ticket can be redeemed by the business associate to dynamically read certain financial records within the profile to support the users business needs. Another example would be to give a ticket to a spouse in order to read and update certain profile records.

Contact titles can refer to individual contacts or a list of contacts or set of lists of contacts or even to other contact titles. This allows groups to be established and easily shared among members with each member gaining controlled and granular access to dynamic and up to date information on other members. These types of titles would be similar in structure to the titles shown in and and would also be stored and managed by the title manager . The rules within these titles can establish dependencies such as the user must be a member of the group in order for the title to be valid. Furthermore these types of titles can be used between hosted digital commerce engines for collaboration backup and redundant operations.

Alternatively the user can use an application such as a Microsoft Windows application e.g. Microsoft Outlook or a Macromedia Flash application to access the title manager and request title listings. In this case these applications can have the added benefit of caching contact information to enhance performance reduce network traffic and work offline. In this case the application can retrieve contact information as the user requests and cache it for further reference or can automatically retrieve contact information in the background and update it on a frequent and scheduled basis. This type of support allows the user to remove their device from the network and still view contact information. Another alternative is to have the title management functionality incorporated directly into the application along with the title data table.

In another embodiment a title structure is employed to optimize the description creation management and use of titles. Although the structure of title objects as described herein maybe representative of certain technologies and formats such as XML this is only as an example and to demonstrate one embodiment. A title object can be represented in a number of formats including XML ASN.1 or other proprietary formats including textual and binary structures.

Although certain examples of the title structure are presented the structure is intended to represent any number of digital and physical assets such as digital content including music images video and text as well as physical goods such as computers cameras vehicles and appliances. Furthermore a title can be used to represent virtual assets such as an online experience created through a series of activities and events and can also represent currencies such as cash. In one an embodiment a title structure can be used to represent both a digital and physical asset such as the identity of a person whereby the person has physical assets associated with their identity and also digital assets associated with their identity.

Referring now to title object is displayed in which a set of stub elements are advantageously employed to optimize titles. Although several stub elements are displayed within the title object in other embodiments a title object may have no stub elements or may just have one stub element.

In one aspect of the invention a set of stub elements can be coupled to a specific title to further optimize a title s content attributes and security indicia. In another aspect of the invention a stub element can be created and coupled to the title after the title is created. In yet another aspect of the invention a stub element can be coupled to a set or group of titles as specified in the stubs binding information. This permits efficient coupling of stubs to titles.

Title element comprises a structure used to describe the title and the content or asset and express the rights associated with title object . Title object can be issued for a specified period of time or can be left infinite. The integrity of title object can be further protected by the use of cryptographic algorithms. In one embodiment a digital signature is used. In another embodiment a chained hash is used. Information within title element can be overridden by information contained within stub element as long as stub element was issued by the same entity as title object and further specifies what information is being overridden. In another embodiment of the invention the issuer of a title object can delegate authority thereby permitting other authorities to issue stubs on its behalf.

In one embodiment title element is the only substantial piece of a title object that can be stored in a lockbox and inspected by participating parties in a trading transaction. This embodiment provides for separation between the descriptive information provided within a title element and security indicia and or content and or additional value add information that maybe contained in stub elements that are coupled to the title. As an example an effective separation permits trading parties to inspect the title that is being traded without comprising the security of the security indicia.

Stub element is a flexible extension mechanism to the title object and can be used to convey any related and appropriate information such as value add content or additional rule processing. Each stub element can be issued and signed by different entities and can have different lifetimes. In one embodiment stub element is optional for a tag. In another embodiment an authenticator stub must be included for all valid tickets and tokens. The authenticator stub contains the security indicia that are used to authenticate a valid instance of a ticket or token.

Owner component comprises any valid type of identity indicia in context to the applications that create manage and use titles. The identity indicia ma ybe formal or informal depending on the requirements for the applications. For example the identity indicia for the owner can be a name email phone number X.500 Distinguished Name user ID tag pointer etc. The identity indicia can include technical detail used to authenticate the owner. For example the identity indicia may provide technical detail sufficient for an application to prove identity through the use of X.509 digital certificates or through the use of a biometric device. Similarly the invention can utilize the identity indicia to instruct an application relying on the title to properly authenticate an owner through trusted sources such as a remote access server or through a domain controller and rely on that trusted sources to properly authenticate the owner using standard means such as username and password. In one embodiment owner component is optional for a tag and a token but is required for a ticket.

Content component can comprise applicable information pertaining to an asset such as a digital content file associated with title object . In one embodiment content component comprises a pointer defining the location of the digital content file. In another embodiment content component comprises a query that can be used to obtain the digital content file. Content component can further comprise additional information such as ID name creator rating etc. A single title object as shown in can express rights to multiple digital content files with the information regarding each in separate content components . For example a title object can express rights to a music album where the album is comprised of multiple songs sheet music pictures and lyrics. Each content piece such as a song or lyrics in this case can be described in multiple content components . In one embodiment the content component can provide detailed information relating to a physical asset instead of a digital asset. In this case sufficient information is contained within the title content component to identify the physical asset such as SIC manufacturer manufacturer ID model number serial number etc. In another embodiment the content component can contain industry or technology specific identifiers such as that used by the IANA Rosettanet or even technologies specifications such as RDF.

Rules component comprises statements specifying the specific rules that are applied to the use of the title as well as procedures for monitoring events associated with title object as shown in . In one embodiment XSLT statements are used to define the rules and are executed in a compliant XSLT processor. In another embodiment XrML statements are contained within the rules component to express rights associated with the title. In another embodiment application specific rules are expressed in a proprietary format within the rules component and can be executed by applications that understand interpret and execute the rules. In another embodiment the rules can be expressed through pointers references and links such as the rules component containing a set of URI references to rule logic contained within a dictionary. The rules component can contain business logic associated with the title and are not exclusively used for access control authentication or rights expression. Business logic rules can be incorporated for additional processing pre processing event processing triggers callbacks and other business logic that maybe associated with the title. For example rules can be implemented to perform event processing based on a certain action being taken or a specific state of the title. The rules expressed within this component can trigger off certain state information that maybe contained within stub components along with information contained within the title. The rules can even be used to query information on other systems in order to perform a certain event. Rules component may have attribute elements provided within its structure for properly identifying the rules language that is being described.

Custom component comprises custom information desired by title object publisher. In one embodiment custom can contain any text and or valid XML which in turn can be referenced throughout title element or stub element . The custom component may also contain pointers references or links to additional information or resources that are applicable to the title object.

In one embodiment manifest component comprises reference information that must be included as part of title object . For example if a stub element must be included along with title object then it could be referenced here. In another embodiment external data that must be included as part of title object can also be referenced within the manifest component. Applications that process the title can also process the content or referenced content within the manifest and in another embodiment use this manifest as part of an integrity check of the title object.

Signature component comprises cryptographic information used to verify the integrity of title element . In an embodiment of the title object the signature component can be an XML Digital Signature block in compliance with the W3C. In another embodiment the signature component may contain proprietary cryptographic information used to verify the integrity of the title as well as provide functionality generally associated with digital signatures.

Referring now to stub content component as shown in is further described. In one embodiment authenticator component comprises information that can be used by title transaction system applications to authenticate title object . In another embodiment authenticator component can verify that title object is a valid single instance of a title object. Tickets and tokens within the title ecosystem will have authenticator stubs associated with the title in order to properly authenticate the title object and validate that it is the correct instance of the title object. In another embodiment a tag or shadow title may not have an authenticator stub as it may not be required for authentication and validation. In this example a shadow title would be a title that is a copy of the valid and authenticate title although by itself is not valid. Shadow titles in this instance are valuable techniques for sharing content such that a shared title can still give the recipient access to sample information or limited content such as a restriction for one time only use or access to a low quality version of a song. In an embodiment the authenticator stub contains the security indicia associated with the title and the structure of the security indicia would be dependent on the authentication technique applied by the publisher of the title.

In one embodiment of authenticator component a chained hash technique can be employed to authenticate the title. Authenticator component would contain the encrypted seed for the hash a copy of the current valid hash in the hash chain and an algorithm identifier all of which would be used by a state server to authenticate the title in conjunction with an index that the state server maintains. In another embodiment a hash tree can be implemented within the authenticator stub to support divisible titles. The hash tree technique can be employed by titles that represent cash or some form of currency that can be divided.

In another embodiment stub content comprises embeddedcontent which can further include a digital content file. Embeddedcontent can be also be used by issuers who wish to provide an option to their customers for embedding content directly into title object . Advantages includes additional functionality in processing title object for example while executing a trade only title objects are included in the lockbox therefore eliminating any potential security exposure by having embedded content directly inside the title object . In another embodiment the embeddedcontent can contain textual information or even XML structured information.

In another embodiment stub content comprises rules component . In another embodiment a rules component procedure can override rules component procedure as shown in . The structure of the rules would be similar to that of the rules component in the title element.

Other component comprises other functionality that may be included in stub content and defined by the publisher of the title and understood interpreted and processed by applications involved in the title transaction ecosystem.

Referring now to descriptor component as shown in is further described. Descriptor component can function as a header element for title object as shown if and provides descriptive information related to the title. The descriptor can be used by system applications used in processing the title and can be used by system applications involved in generic processing of titles such that they only interpret and act upon title specific information regardless of the content they contain reference or express rights to. For example a system application may only be concerned with the type of title that is being processed such as tag ticket or token. Likewise another system application may only be concerned with the security classification and the priority setting associated with the title.

Titleid component comprises the unique identifier associated with the title. In one embodiment the titleid is a GUID globally unique identifier . In another embodiment the titleid is a unique identifier within all titles created by a single issuer. The identifier used in title id can be formal or informal registered or not registered. Titletype component comprises the type of the title object such as tag ticket or token and states the type in this component. The type can be specified as a textual string element such as Tag Ticket or Token or in another embodiment can be specified through formal or informal identifiers such as a registered OID object identifier . In another embodiment titletype can provide a formal structural hierarchy to the title such that title can be associated with a family of titles and can be used to describe how the title was formed based on a type of inheritance. The titletype would contain specific title typing indicia such that the processing applications can retrieve understand interpret and process properties associated with ancestor titles. In another embodiment the titletype can be used to reference the template that was used to create the title.

Titlename component is a short text string used to name the title object and is similar to a file name. Titledescription comprises a longer text string and can be used to contain primary descriptive information regarding title object including ID type name description and technical elements used for processing. Typeofcontent comprises the type of content referred to by title object . In one embodiment Typeofcontent can include terms such as mixed music or other descriptive term. In another embodiment typeofcontent can contain more formal definitions such as MIME type classifications or industry standard codes such as that used in Rosettanet and EDI systems. Additionally typeofcontent can be used to specify a title content such that other titles may be embedded within or specified by this title. In this example a title can refer to other titles and convey additional rules or taxonomy regarding the referred to or contained titles.

Securityclass component comprises security classification identifiers that can be used by processing applications. In one embodiment the classification can be as simple as a numerically ordered scheme that identifies the security processing level required of this title from an range of low to high. In another embodiment the classification scheme can be a registered scheme or even a more technically descriptive classification such as that used in ASN.1 encoding schemes for X.509 certificates. Priorityflag component comprises a priority indicator to be used by processing applications to apply appropriate levels of processing such is the case for service level agreements or quality of service guarantees. For example a high priority setting can indicate to processing applications that this titles requires priority processing that is preferred status and can be placed at the front of the queue. In an embodiment the priorityflag can be textual numerical or structured information to be used by processing applications. In another embodiment the priorityflag can provide or reference technically descriptive service level agreement detail that can be directly processed by applications such as that used in Policy Based Networks or Directory Enabled Networks.

Trackit component comprises indicators for the level tracking information that should be maintained by processing applications such as if title object must be tracked on every event. In another example the trackit component can specify that both the transaction request and response information be tracked in the log. In another embodiment the trackit component can specify that every action must be tracked in a stub element of the title object . By tracking transactions and events in the stub the title can maintain a journal of activities and provide a self contained log. The logging activity within a single stub or multiple stubs can be used as a record of the activities that comprise the titles experience. This can be used as an effective tool for analysis and reporting and is also an essential aspect for titles creating and representing an experience whereby the title maintains its own state. For example a title can be used to create a digital treasure hunt where the owner of the title redeems it for each step in the treasure hunt. Completing each step requires that the title maintain its state and also record the activities completed by the owner. When the treasure hunt is complete the owner is entitled to receive a prize. The trackit component along with the recording ability of stubs permits the title to create this experience. The title also becomes a record that can prove a sequence of steps. The tracking ability enabled by the trackit component and stubs can be used by rules components for fine grained control over a title and for event processing. For example based on a specific step within an experience the title can initiate certain actions. This would require understanding of the current state and the sequence of steps that led up to the event.

The membership component comprises title membership information such as the group or family that a title may belong. In one embodiment this could be implemented as a group identifier and in another embodiment this could be implemented through references.

Referring now to content component as shown in is further described. The content component is used to describe the content or asset to which the title expresses rights. In the case of digital content the information would specifically refer to the detail associated with that digital content such as an encoded song or video. In the case of a physical asset the content information would provide detailed information regarding the physical asset such as location coordinates SIC manufacturer model number part number and or serial number.

ContentID component comprises an identifier for the content. In one embodiment contentID component can be used to convey any type of content ID used by content publishers such as DOI OID or a proprietary scheme. In another embodiment the identifier could be a serial number. Contentcreator component comprises a text string identifying the creator of the content such as a digital content file or asset. The contentcreator component can be a textual string an identifier or even structured identity indicia on the creator as described in other identity related components such as the owner component . Contentdescription component comprises a longer text string and can be used to contain primary descriptive information. Contentcategory component comprises the categories or taxonomy of content referred to by title object . In one embodiment the contentcategory can be a simple text label while in another embodiment the contentcategory can be a structured component with detailed taxonomy on the content referred to by the title object.

Quantity component comprises the instances of a single digital content file associated with title object . Value component comprises the economic price associated with title object . Icon component comprises the computer icon to be displayed in the title management system or by processing applications. Shortform shortformpointer component comprises a pointer to a sample of the content or asset such as an image thumbnail image short sample audio or low quality audio. In another embodiment the shortform component can contain the actual sample such as textual information. For example the shortform can contain a name and email address for a contact record. In this case the shortform provides quick and immediate access to information whereas the title provides access to the entire contact information. Shortform and shortformpointer and useful components when titles are traded and shared.

Redeem component comprises methods for the redemption of the title object. Redemption of the title object can be obtaining the digital content that the title refers to or can also be the trading of the title or the sharing of the title. The redeem component is a structured component that has one to many methods describing in detail how the title may be redeemed. This structure is flexible to accommodate a variety of redemption processes and procedures that are required by publishers and consumers of title objects.

Rating component comprises a content rating for the digital content file such as the MPAA rating of G PG etc. The detail within the rating component is context specific according to the content or asset referred to by the title object. Contentintegrity comprises a cryptographic message digest which is used for verification of digital content integrity. The contentintegrity component provides attributes to identify the method employed for integrity checking such as the SHA 1 algorithm. Keywords component comprises a list of keywords associated with the content or asset. This can be used during queries searches and categorizations.

Referring now to redeem component of is further described. Redeem component further comprises a set of methods including a query component a rules component a pointer component and other component . As mentioned the redeem component can include from one to many methods with each method describing how the title object can be redeemed. In one embodiment a method can describe how the digital content maybe obtained. In another embodiment a method may describe how digital content maybe obtained in a streaming version. In yet another embodiment a method can describe how the title object can be shared traded sampled archived destroyed communicated or processed depending on the specific requirements of the publisher and the consumer application. In another embodiment a redemption method can be used to specify how a new title can created based on the current title object being redeemed. A redeem method may include one some or all of the components identified in .

In another embodiment a query component comprises searching procedures for the digital content file. This component has attributes to identify the query mechanism being described. In one embodiment the query component can contain SQL queries in order to obtain dynamic information from a database. In another embodiment the query component can contain an XQuery statement to obtain data from an XML data set or document collection. In another embodiment the query component can contain computer executable statements to process some query business logic in order to calculate or process the results. The rules component comprises statements specifying the specific rules that are applied before during and after redemption. The structure and statements contained within the rules component is similar to that described for the rules component in the title object in that it can contain and describe any type of rules statement such as XSLT XrML BRML and can also contain pointers or references to external rules. However this rules component is specifically associated with a redemption method.

The pointer component specifies a pointer to the content or asset being referenced by the title object. The pointer structure is specified in the component and in one embodiment can be a simple URL. In another embodiment this may be a URI XPointer XLink coordinates or other pointer description to the content or asset.

Other component comprises additional functionality that may be added to the set of methods . The other component accommodates proprietary or custom information to be used during redemption and should be understood interpreted and processed by applications.

Referring now to issuer component of title element as shown in is further described. Issuedate comprises the date that title object was issued. In one embodiment name component comprises a textual name string for the issuer of title object . As described earlier the name component can be a formal name for the issuer of the title such as a registered Internet Domain Name or X.500 Distinguished Name. In another embodiment ID component can comprise an alpha numeric ID string for the issuer of the title object . As described earlier the ID component can be a formal or informal identifier.

Referring now to owner component of title element as shown in is further described. Name comprises a textual name string for the owner of title object or as described earlier for the owner component can be a formal name definition such as a X.500 Distinguished Name. Authentication component comprises technical detail such as cryptographic information that can be used to verify the identity of the title object owner. The technical information will be sufficient enough for the processing application to correctly identify and authenticate the owner of the title. Information contained in this component can be cryptographic information used in processes such as biometric identification or even for identification through the use of digital certificates and a public key infrastructure. Component comprises the activation date for title object . Title object processing applications may use the information contained within the validperiod component to ensure that a title object will not be processed before it becomes valid as specified in the from component and not processed after it becomes invalid as specified in the to component . The date can be specified in the UTC date time format.

Referring now to a simplified diagram displaying title object lifecycle and management steps is displayed according to one embodiment of the invention. Initially a title is designed at step . The design process would take into consideration the source content or asset and identify properties that should be included in the title. The design process must also carefully consider the redemption methods that are appropriate for the content or asset and clearly specify the redemption processes that will be described in each method. All taxonomy security rule processing business logic and descriptive information will be identified described and documented during the design phase of a title object. As an output to the design phase a title object template will generally be created and identified. The template is used as a technical guideline script or set of instructions that can be used during the creation process to generate a title object. Templates can be stored for re use. An application that assists or implements the design aspects of a title can provide typical design functions such as collaboration planning scheduling and reporting. Collaboration in title design can be an effective tool for creating complex title objects that consist of multiple elements. As an example a digital album can involve several parties for design of covers images audio text and sheet music elements. Scheduling aspects maybe required to schedule the creation of titles. For instance titles can be created on demand on created in batch.

The next step in the lifecycle and management is the production or creation stage as shown in create title . The create title stage involves a factory or similar process to produce titles. Production can be on demand in bulk or as scheduled depending on the requirements of publishers. Implementations of the create title process can consider request complexity reporting control and performance factors to ensure that production demands are satisfied. Additional functionality supported by the create title process can include warehousing and distribution of titles that are created. Warehousing and distribution functions can be used to service requests by several parties involved in the title object lifecycle such as in syndication and content distribution networks. The creation process is described further in . The output from this stage would be title object instances.

The next stage in lifecycle and management is the storage of titles as depicted in . This stage would include typical title object storage and management functions including securing title objects as they are stored properly authenticating owner s access to title objects and viewing title objects that maybe stored. Storage functions can be implemented as server applications or incorporated directly into client applications that run directly on consumer computing devices such as desktop computers and mobile devices. Server applications can be implemented to support a community of users. Storage of title objects can be a critical stage in the lifecycle as a title object may tend to spend a majority of its life in storage. Therefore it will be essential for applications involved in this stage to provide proper handling such as ensuring that security requirements are satisfied.

The next stage in the lifecycle and management is the consuming of titles as depicted in . Consuming of titles primarily involves the use of titles in order to experience the content. This is accomplished by redeeming the title using the variety of redemption methods defined within a title object. Applications that are involved in this stage can be complex as they must effectively process the title object including rule processing business logic processing interpretation of descriptive information resolution of references and pointers and most importantly the authentication of titles and owners. In an embodiment of the lifecycle there would also be the communication interpretation and processing of fine grained trust between all parties involved in the lifecycle. In one embodiment the title manager resolver state server content proxy and content server would all be involved in the consumption of a title object.

Consume title component can tie back to the design title and create title components to complete the lifecycle. In one embodiment the detail obtained through the consumption and use of title objects will be essential information used in the design of subsequent and additional titles. In another more direct embodiment the consumption of title can be effectively tracked and directly used by one title object to create a new or enhanced title object template. In this instance as a title is consumed it will progressively track and update various properties within its stub element structure. These properties will combine to represent the experience of the title object and on a particular redemption method will generate either a new title object template or an enhanced title object template. The new or enhanced template can then be used to create additional title objects. In this embodiment a title can be an effective tool and mechanism for use in expert systems or artificial intelligence engines. In another embodiment a title can be used as a data source into the create title process to create new titles and this can be triggered by one of the redemption methods in the original title. This embodiment can be an effective technique in using title objects for syndication or delegation. It can also be an effective technique for transforming a title object enhancing a title object evolving a title object or morphing a title object.

Title trading is supported by the title technology and the applications that process titles. Trading between parties can be accomplished in many different ways and involve any number of technologies and techniques. Referring now to a simplified diagram of a digital lockbox component is shown according to one embodiment of the invention. In this example digital lockbox component is used as a secure container for the title objects that are being traded between party A and party B. Digital lockbox component further comprises two secure areas that contain the title objects for trade party A s title objects are stored in drawer while party B s title objects are stored in drawer . Digital lockbox component further permits inspection by either party into the contents of the lockbox in order for each to verify the title objects and approve or cancel the trade. Digital lockbox component would not permit ownership to be transferred and only permits viewing of sample content or of the content permitted by a redemption method e.g. content legally shared . When both parties have confirmed the trade and approved of title objects and digital lockbox component claims ownership over all title objects in the lockbox and then transfers ownership to the respective party. Transferring ownership involves delivering title objects and to the appropriate title manager and and subsequently having title managers and claim ownership for their respective party. Digital lockbox component in this case is similar to a 3party escrow system by providing a substantial level of guarantee to both parties involved in the trade. For instance if any part of the trade failed during the claim process digital lockbox can rollback the entire trade. Digital lockbox can also provide a legal record of the trade to all parties involved in the trade. As shown in the example the contents of the trade can be one or multiple title objects.

In another embodiment digital lockbox component supports a transfer in which party A intends to give party B the title objects with nothing expected in return. For example party B could sample the content and review it before accepting the transfer. The claim process for the title objects would remain the same and digital lockbox component can provide a record of the transaction. In yet another embodiment digital lockbox component can support multi party dependent trades nested trades. In yet another embodiment digital lockbox component may support complex trades involving service level agreements insurance legal recourse guarantees and content introspection. For example a highly confidential trade can be implemented with special content inspection rights provided through digital lockbox component . This would provide both parties with the ability to view the confidential content for the duration of the trade negotiations under special circumstances such as viewing directly using a controlled application similar to that provided by digital rights management software.

In another embodiment a simplified trade can be executed directly between two parties by having title manager components and simply transfer title objects and and subsequently have the receiving title manager and claim ownership over the respective title objects and . In yet another embodiment a trade can be executed directly by title manager components and acting as secure agents. An established protocol can be used by title managers and to securely trade the title objects. For example a Boolean circuit can be utilized by the title managers. In another embodiment security ownership indicia associated with each title object can be updated according to specific title authentication techniques employed by each respective title objects and .

Although the structure and management of titles as described herein may make specific or general references to certain technologies such as XML other technologies may be available. Title structures can be represented in any number of formats and management or lifecycle processes can be implemented in any number of ways. For example a title object and its management maybe implemented directly in computer executable code. This type of title object can be an effective method for creating title enabled mobile code self executing title objects digital robots and crawlers. In this example using the title object can provide significant benefits in that trust and integrity can be transmitted with the mobile code. In the example where the title object is self executing code the title object can implement title creation functions to morph or transform itself. In another embodiment a title object can be described in a scripting language and executed as required. For example a title object can be described and implemented as a Javascript program and embedded within a web page. The Javascript program would comprise not only the title structure but also the logic to process the titles such as implementing the rules and redemption methods. The Javascript code can be used to embed titles in a web page and participate in the title transaction ecosystem.

In another embodiment title objects and management components are directly embedded into hardware. For example a title object can be stored on a smartcard device along with a secure management component that is responsible for processing and updating the title object s security indicia. A user would subsequently insert the smartcard into a terminal in order among other things to guarantee transaction validity. The title object s security indicia would be securely updated directly on the smartcard as a security precaution. In another example management components are implemented as firmware in hardware computing appliances i.e. firewalls consumer set top boxes etc. or in portable hardware tokens that can be attached to computing devices through direct interfaces cables or wireless connections.

Advantages of the invention include the ability to easily and efficiently manage and share titles over a network such as the Internet. Additional advantages of the invention include creating an ecosystem whereby digital content providers can offload the burden of managing and enforcing user access rights yet receive revenue from third party transactions.

Having disclosed exemplary embodiments and the best mode modifications and variations may be made to the disclosed embodiments while remaining within the subject and spirit of the invention as defined by the following claims.

