---

title: Characterization of temporary identifiers in a wireless communication network
abstract: System(s), device(s), and method(s) are provided to characterize a temporary identifier for user equipment (UE) in telecommunication procedure(s) in a wireless communication network. Based on radio technology of at least one serving node that enables at least part of the telecommunication procedure(s), the UE generates a TI and a classifier that discloses the type of the TI. The classifier enables distinguishing a TI value in a first radio technology from a TI value in a second radio technology. In addition the classifier enables a serving node that receives the classifier to identify a logic address of a disparate serving node without restriction in backwards compatibility amongst radio protocols utilized by the wireless communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08897285&OS=08897285&RS=08897285
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 08897285
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100813
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to characterizing temporary identifiers for user equipment in telecommunication procedures in a wireless communication network.

With the introduction of LTE network architecture in 3GPP Release 8 Rel. 8 standards a new type of UE temporary identifier is defined by the standards body and used by the Mobility Management Entity MME to address a user equipment UE when the UE registers with the Evolved Packet Core. This UE temporary identifier is called the Globally Unique Temporary Identifier GUTI . Please see TS 23.003 for the definition of the GUTI. Due to the UE mobility between GPRS and LTE networks and between UMTS and LTE networks the UE temporary identifiers used in each of these different 3GPP access technologies need to be mapped between each other i.e. from RAI P TMSI Routing Area Identifier Packet Temporary Mobile Station Identifier to GUTI or from GUTI to RAI P TMSI.

Yet the requirement in 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 standards for mapping amongst disparate temporary identifiers TIs is a non backward compatible requirement which poses operational issues for network operators with significant network deployments that exploit radio technologies different from LTE. At least one issue arising from the requirement for mapping TIs associated with disparate radio technologies is that Location Area Codes LACs are restricted to a specific domain of values. However network operators that exploit radio technologies such as 3GPP UMTS 3GPP GPRS or CDMA2000 are likely to have deployments that exceed such a restriction on LAC values. Thus transition to 3GPP LTE radio technology is likely to result in substantial network re planning in order to make the LAC assignments compliant with the current 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 standards protocol s . Yet the cost of such re planning is prohibitively high and can impact adversely the service provided to current end users during radio technology transition periods.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate any scope. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s device s and method s to System s device s and method s to characterize a temporary identifier for user equipment UE in telecommunication procedure s in a wireless communication network. Based on radio technology of at least one serving node that enables at least part of the telecommunication procedure s the UE generates a TI and a classifier that discloses the type of the TI in the telecommunication procedure s e.g. Registration procedure . The classifier enables distinguishing a TI value in a first radio technology from a TI value in a second radio technology. In addition the classifier enables a serving node that receives the classifier to identify a logical address of a disparate serving node without restriction in backwards compatibility amongst radio protocols utilized by the wireless communication network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the invention. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the computer related entity and the entity related to the operational apparatus can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such computer related entities or entities related to the operational apparatus are also referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software application or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform layer node interface and the like.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure are presented in terms of systems or embodiments that may include a number of components modules nodes interfaces platforms or the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems or embodiments may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules nodes interfaces platforms etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of devices includes one or more devices a set of recipients includes one or more recipients a set of addresses can include K addresses with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity. In addition as employed herein the term sub set can include the empty set. In the subject disclosure it explicitly noted when a sub set excludes the empty set.

Referring to the drawings presents an example wireless environment that enables characterization of temporary identifiers TIs for user equipment UE in accordance with aspects described herein. A TI is radio technology specific and can be utilized in various telecommunication processes such as mobility events Tracking Area Update Routing Area Update Location Area Update etc. or registration events e.g. Attach procedure . Telecommunication processes that exploit a TI e.g. a Globally Unique Temporary Identifier GUTI in 3GPP LTE generally involve transition from a first serving node e.g. a mobility management entity MME in 3GPP LTE or a SGSN in 3GPP UMTS to a second serving node.

Example wireless environment includes two wireless networks that operate in accordance with respective radio technologies. As illustrated a first wireless network includes network platform I and one or more link s I that functionally couple e.g. communicatively couple network platform I and component s therein to radio access network RAN I . The RAN I comprises one or more outdoor based or outdoor base stations and associated electronic circuitry and respective deployment site s of the one or more outdoor base stations. In addition the RAN I includes the air interface which comprises a least one wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s radio technology. Moreover the RAN comprises various coverage cells or sectors. For a wireless device e.g. UE served by base station s not shown in RAN I one or more network components that are part of a radio access network not shown associated with network platform I enable transmission of data and signaling. Network platform I includes a set of one or more serving node s wherein a serving node e.g. a Mobility Management Entity MME in 3GPP LTE network in such set can exchange e.g. transmit and receive traffic and control signaling to UE . A serving node is logically specific to the radio technology utilized for telecommunication by a wireless network in certain scenarios the serving node also can be physically specific to such radio technology.

In addition a second wireless network includes a network platform II functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to RAN II via one or more link s . RAN II comprises one or more outdoor based or outdoor base stations and associated electronic circuitry and respective deployment site s of the one or more outdoor base stations. In addition RAN II includes the air interface which comprises a least one wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s radio technology. Moreover the RAN comprises various coverage cells or sectors. For a wireless device e.g. UE served by base station s not shown in RAN II one or more network components that are part of a radio access network not shown associated with network platform II enable transmission of data and signaling. Network platform II includes a set of one or more service node s a serving node in such set can exchange traffic and control signaling with user equipment in RAN II . While illustrated as separate entities RAN I and RAN II can overlap at least in part with one or more base stations associated with RAN I being deployed in areas in which base stations associated with RAN II also are deployed.

A telecommunication process related to UE can be an intra radio access technology intra RAT process or an inter RAT process. An intra RAT telecommunication process typically occurs within a single RAN whereas an inter RAT telecommunication process involves at least two disparate RANs. As an example a mobility event indicated with arrows of UE within RAN I such as relocation of UE from location A to location B is a intra RAT mobility event. Such intra RAT mobility event generally exploits a TI that is native to the radio access technology related to RAN I . In contrast a mobility event of UE that entails relocation of UE from location A in RAN I to location C in RAN II is an inter RAT process that typically exploits two values of TIs each value of TI is associated with a respective domain of unique network identifiers. In an aspect of the subject innovation a domain of unique network identifiers can be radio technology specific e.g. dictated by a standardized protocol of radio telecommunication . In another aspect deployment architecture of a wireless network service nodes base stations etc. can determine the domain of unique network identifiers for instance a large deployment of a macrocellular network can have a range of allowed Location Area Codes LACs suitable for the size of deployed base stations and related serving nodes.

In the subject innovation UE can issue or generate a TI and a related indication of the type of identity of the TI. In an embodiment the type of identity can be part of a TI information element IE and be defined as a set of bits within the TI IE. In such embodiment to issue the type of identity UE via one or more components therein can encode a field within the TI IE. In another embodiment the type of identity can be a dedicated tag linked to the TI UE or one or more components therein can determine a value of the dedicated tag.

Based on a telecommunication process e.g. Tracking Area Update TAU procedure Location Area Update LAU procedure Routing Area Update RAU procedure or Attach procedure identifier generator can determine a current radio technology associated with a current serving node e.g. serving node and a disparate radio technology associated with a new serving node. In a scenario in which the current radio technology associated with the current serving node is the same as the new radio technology associated with the new serving node identifier generator issues a TI that is specific to the current radio technology. In addition identifier generator can set a type of identity classifier associated with the TI to a value e.g. Native TI that conveys the TI is intrinsic to the current radio technology. In one or more embodiments the type of identity classifier associated with the TI can be encoded within a field in a TI IE e.g. Evolved Packet System EPS Mobility Identity IE in 3GPP LTE related to the TI e.g. GUTI identifier generator can encode the type of identity classifier. Encoding of the field in the TI IE conveys the type of identity of the TI associated with the classifier. Identifier generator can encode a value of a type of identity classifier within the Type of Identity field within an octet of the standardized EPS Mobility Identity IE. In the subject disclosure as an example a value of the type of identity classifier can be Mapped GUTI UE via identifier generator for example can encode the Mapped GUTI value as 111 in bits to of octet 3 in EPS Mobility Identity IE. As another example UE via identifier generator can encode the Mapped GUTI value as 101 . It should be appreciated that the value Mapped GUTI supplements the values IMSI and Native GUTI that are available in conventional 3GPP LTE networks e.g. 3GPP LTE Release 8 networks . It should be further appreciated that with bits through in octet 3 in EPS Mobility Identity IE there is a plurality of six 6 2 2 possible 3 bit encodings for Type of Identity field in addition to the two conventional 3 bit encodings e.g. 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 encodings .

It should be appreciated that in the subject disclosure a type of identity classifier or any indication the indication of TI type can be encoded in a multi bit field e.g. an M bit field with M a positive integer within a TI information element IE related to a TI associated with the TI type. Accordingly the subject innovation affords 2distinct encodings of the M bit field. Such plurality of one or more distinct classifiers enables identification of up to M distinct types of temporary identifiers. It should be appreciated that at least one of the M distinct types of temporary identifier defined by the M bit field and related encoding can have a mapping associated thereto wherein the mapping relates a value of the TI linked to the type of identity classifier to a value of a unique identifier within a range of values dictated by a radio technology different from the radio technology intrinsic or native to the value of the TI linked to the type of identity classifier. It should also be appreciated that while a Type of Identity classifier need not be encoded in a TI IE e.g. TI IE . In certain embodiments a type of identity classifier associated with a TI and related value can be conveyed independently from a TI IE.

In addition in certain embodiments as described supra the type of identity classifier can be a dedicated tag associated to an issued TI identifier generator can determine a value of the dedicated tag. In an aspect identifier generator can select a tag from a set of tags e.g. tag s retained in memory . Definition of the type of identity classifier as a tag rather than as a field within a conventional TI IE e.g. EPS Mobility Identity IE can extend applicability of such classifier to wireless networks e.g. CDMA2000 networks that do not exploit conventional TI IEs but utilize temporary identifiers TIs in telecommunication procedures that include serving nodes or other network nodes that operate in accordance with disparate radio technologies.

In scenarios in which a current serving node e.g. a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN in a 3GPP UMTS network operates in accordance with a first radio technology e.g. 3GPP UMTS that is different from a second radio technology e.g. 3GPP LTE associated with a new serving node e.g. an MME in an Evolved Packet Core EPC network UE can produce a TI based on a mapping that associates a first identifier e.g. RAI P TMSI in the first technology with a second identifier e.g. GUTI in the second technology. In an aspect mapping component can associate the first identifier to the second identifier through a mapping not shown . The mapping not shown can be retained in memory . After a TI is produced identifier generator can issue a classifier that characterizes the TI e.g. GUTI . The new serving node that receives a TI and the classifier can identify the contents of the TI through the classifier.

User equipment can deliver a TI IE and a related type of identity classifier to serving node . To at least such end identifier generator can generate a TI IE e.g. temporary identifier IE and convey the TI IE to radio interface for delivery. In an aspect delivery can be indirect via at least one base station and or at least one network node. In one or more embodiments a classifier e.g. Type of Identity that determines type of identity of the TI is encoded in the TI IE. In additional or alternative embodiments identifier generator can convey the classifier e.g. Type of Identity to radio interface separately from the TI IE radio interface can deliver the TI IE and the classifier. Radio interface includes antenna s and communication platform . Antenna s can receive and transmit electromagnetic EM radiation with wavelengths in at least the radiofrequency or microwave portion of the EM spectrum received EM radiation is conveyed to communication platform for processing. Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted wherein such signal s are received or transmitted in suitable portions of the EM spectrum. The electronic components and circuitry can include a set of one or more chipsets that enable digital to analog analog to digital conversion multiplexing demultiplexing signal s coding decoding signal s and the like in accordance with a radio telecommunication protocol associated with a radio technology 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS etc. . In one or more embodiments communication platform can include circuitry e.g. one or more chipsets not shown and a processor a processor that is part of processor s to switch radio technology based at least on radio technology exploited by an intended recipient of a communication of a source of a communication. In an aspect the communication platform can switch radio technology within a configurable and upgradable set of technologies in order to effect radio telecommunication.

Serving node receives a TI IE and the related classifier that characterizes the type of identity of a TI encoded in the TI IE. In an aspect a broadband network interface receives e.g. collects and decodes data the TI IE and the related classifier. In response to reception of the TI IE and the related classifier serving node can extract a logical address e.g. an internet protocol IP for a disparate serving node not shown related to the telecommunication that exploits the TI and the related classifier. In one or more embodiments serving node can extract the logical address of the disparate serving node through at least in part an external resolution server e.g. a Domain Name Server not shown in . In an aspect address generator can access e.g. query the external resolution server and in response to such access e.g. in response to the query address generator can receive the logical address of the disparate serving node. In additional or alternative embodiments serving node can extract the logic address through a procedure or mechanism that is internal to serving node . In another aspect address generator can implement e.g. execute such procedure which can be retained within memory as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions. Address generator component determines e.g. decodes a value of the classifier associated with the TI. In the subject specification and annexed drawings address generator component is also referred to as address generator . In case the classifier conveys that the TI is defined in accordance with the radio technology employed by serving node address generator decodes at least one value conveyed by the TI and utilizes the at least one value to extract or identify a logical address of the disparate serving node. In the alternative in case the classifier related to the received TI IE conveys that the TI is to be linked to a domain of unique network identifiers for a radio technology distinct from the domain of unique network identifiers for the radio technology utilized by serving node address generator can exploit mapping component to identify a logic address of a disparate serving node. In an aspect based on the value of the classifier related to the received TI IE mapping component extracts a mapped unique identifier for the received TI value. In an aspect mapping component can exploit value of a tag that embodies the classifier to identify a mapping not shown to extract the mapped unique identifier for the received TI value. One or more tag s can be retained in memory can be linked to one or more mappings not shown linkage can be through a one to one relationship one to many relationship or many to many relationship. The mapped unique identifier enables address generator to identify the logic address of the disparate serving node. In an aspect to extract a mapped unique identifier for the received TI value mapping component can exploit one or more mappings that associate a received TI value with a unique identifier in a range of values dictated by a disparate radio technology from the radio technology intrinsic or native to the TI value. The one or more mappings not shown are retained in memory . The one or more mappings are configurable and can be determined by a network operator.

As part of the telecommunication process related to reception of TI IE and associated classifier that characterizes the type of identity of a TI encoded in the TI IE serving node can convey signaling to a disparate serving node not shown . At least part of the signaling can include a request for information related to such telecommunication process. As an example if the telecommunication process is a tracking area update TAU procedure the request for information conveyed to the disparate serving node not shown can be a packet data protocol PDP context request.

UE includes processor s configured to provide or that provide at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component interface layer s or other functional element s within the UE . To provide at least such functionality processor s can execute computer executable code instructions retained in memory wherein the computer executable code instructions can be retained for example in application storage not shown within memory . In particular though not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of UE processor s can implement e.g. execute one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification.

In UE functional elements e.g. components interfaces layer s can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Processor s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces layer s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of UE . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it functionally connects. Such data or exchange of information allows at least in part numerous functional aspects of UE . In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In particular though not exclusively processor s is operationally coupled through bus to radio telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as radio interface and can enable at least part of one or more operations on data e.g. packets symbols bits or chips that can enable telecommunication in accordance with a radio technology and associated protocol s . Processor s can afford at least part of multiplexing demultiplexing operation s modulation demodulation operation s coding decoding operation s or the like. Such operations can include for example effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Moreover processor s is functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as computer executable code instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate or provide functionality at least in part to communication platform identifier generator mapping component or other functional elements of UE . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures code instructions and program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information code sequence hypotheses and modulation and multiplexing hypotheses spreading and pilot codes and so on. Furthermore memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more components of UE . In further one or more alternative or additional embodiments one or more components of UE can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside within memory or any computer readable storage medium functionally coupled to UE as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the one or more components and functionality of UE as described herein.

While not shown UE can include a power supply e.g. a Li based battery which can be removable or fixed. The power supply not shown can be rechargeable and can be connected to auxiliary sources of power such as a photovoltaic panel.

Serving node includes processor s configured to provide or that provide at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component interface layer s or other functional element s within serving node . To provide at least such functionality processor s can execute computer executable code instructions retained in memory wherein the computer executable code instructions can be retained for example in application storage not shown within memory . In particular though not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of serving node processor s can implement e.g. execute one or more of the example methods described in the subject specification.

In serving node functional elements e.g. components interfaces layer s can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Processor s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces layer s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of serving node . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it functionally connects. Such data or exchange of information allows at least in part numerous functional aspects of serving node . In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In particular though not exclusively processor s is operationally coupled through bus to broadband network interface and can enable at least part of one or more operations on data e.g. packets symbols bits or chips that can allow telecommunication in accordance with a radio technology and associated protocol s .

Moreover processor s is functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as computer executable code instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate or provide functionality at least in part to broadband network interface address generator mapping component or other functional elements of serving node . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures computer executable code instructions and computer program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information and so on. Moreover memory can include one or more mappings not shown that enable at least in part mapping component to associated a first identifier e.g. a TI in a first radio technology with a second identifier e.g. RAI P TMSI in a second radio technology. Furthermore in certain embodiments memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more components of serving node . In further one or more alternative or additional embodiments one or more components of serving node can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside e.g. be stored within memory or any computer readable storage medium functionally coupled to serving node as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the one or more components and related functionality of serving node as described herein.

In communication platform coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer component that enables manipulation in time and frequency domain of received signal s or signal s to be transmitted via a radio telecommunication interface such as radio telecommunication interface not shown in . Electronic mux demux component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition based on telecommunication protocol employed for radio telecommunication mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like. Mod demod component also can demodulate information processed in accordance with the foregoing modulation techniques.

Coder decoder component can process signal s that are received or that are to be transmitted in accordance with a radio telecommunication protocol. In an aspect decoding can be based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. Multi mode chipset s enable communication platform and component s or functional elements therein to operate in one or more radio technologies.

Functional elements e.g. component s coder decoder receiver s transmitter s are functionally connected via bus . Bus enables exchange of data signaling or any other information amongst the functional elements connected through such bus. In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with device s served through RAN via link s and link s which include wireline links e.g. reference links or wireless link s e.g. line of sight LOS links . Device s is a set of devices that includes wireless device s wireline device s or a combination thereof. For example device s can include a mobile device of a subscriber that exploits customized communication routing as described herein and a set of wireline devices that operate within service coverage area served by a base station that can operate in accordance with one or more radio technologies.

Radio access network RAN can include one or more components that enable transmission of data and signaling including related payload data amongst device s and network platform . RAN can include a radio access network RAN and associated component s . For wireline devices one or more components that are part of a wireline network e.g. service network s enable the transmission of data and signaling. Link s represented with open arrows operationally connected to network interface s can deliver data and signaling to the wireline device via the one or more components of the wireline network for example represented by access network and related link s represented with open arrows connecting the access network to device s . Data sessions e.g. voice calls data calls . . . can include traffic exchange with networks external to network platform such as wide area network s WAN s or service network s local area network s LAN s e.g. enhanced also can be interfaced with network platform through PS gateway node s . In an aspect WAN s can include a wireless WAN which can embody a network platform e.g. Network Platform disparate from network platform wherein the network platform disparate from network platform can have substantially the same functional elements as network platform . Network interface s enable the traffic exchange such interface s can include conventional wireline or wireless links or reference links specific to each of the external network s that interface with PS gateway node s or other portions of the PS domain in network platform . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate packet data protocol PDP contexts when a data session is established. To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technology generations etc. It should be further appreciated that packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a Mobile Switching Center MSC or application server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

In network environment network platform also includes serving node s that conveys the various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to device s and that are received through PS gateway node s from server s . In turn server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to service network s which can include an IMS core or other packet based cores from user equipment within device s or network elements e.g. customized routing server requests presence information from a HSS . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in one or more Mobility Management Entities MMEs .

Server s can operate in various layers of network platform . For example server s can operate as part of Operations Support Systems OSS Business Support Systems BSS or network subsystems such as IMS core network. Server s can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. In an aspect a server within server s can be a Domain Name Server DNS that executes one or more service oriented applications that can supply a logical address e.g. an IP address of a serving node within serving node s . The logical address of the serving node can be supplied in response to a request e.g. a query from a disparate serving node within serving node s or serving node s that are part of a disparate network platform. Application s executed by server s can include for example add on features to standard services provided by network platform . Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization and initiation of a data session or for execution at least in part of a telecommunication procedure Tracking Area Update procedure Location Area Update procedure Routing Area Update procedure Attach procedure etc. for communication to device s thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN LAN s IMS core network which can be part of service network s or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of network platform . To that end the one or more processors not shown can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions not shown stored in memory for example.

In example network environment memory can store information related to operation of network platform . Information can include content s such as subscriber generated content or from various other sources subscriber account s and associated credential s pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns and so forth. In addition memory can store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN s LAN s signaling network or service network s . While illustrated as a single entity memory can be distributed amongst one or more of the described external networks server s or other functional elements of network platform . Memory can be embodied at least in part in a VLR a HSS or storage available within a consolidated data repository that centralizes data administrative data operational data etc. for at least network platform .

In view of the example system s or device s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in and call flow in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s may represent one or more methods described herein in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the one or more methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions stored in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable storage medium to implement method s described herein the computer executable code instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

At act a telecommunication process is initiated. At act a temporary identifier TI information element IE is generated based at least on a radio technology related to the telecommunication process. In an aspect the TI identifies the UE that enacts the subject example method . At act an indication e.g. a classifier of type of identity is generated for the TI IE. In an aspect generating the indication of type of identity for the TI IE can include encoding a set of N bits in a field within the TI IE where N is a natural number. In an example embodiment for N 3 the generating can include encoding the three bits to a value of 111 in bits to in the Type of Identity field in scenarios in which the TI IE is embodied in the EPS Mobility Identity IE defined in the 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 standard. In another example embodiment for N 3 the generating can include encoding the three bits to a value of 101 in bits through in the Type of Identity field in scenarios in which the TI IE is embodied in the EPS Mobility Identity IE. The value 111 or the value 101 can represent a Mapped GUTI type of identity. In another aspect generating the indication includes associating a tag e.g. a multi bit word to the TI IE wherein the tag is not part of the TI IE association of the tag to the TI IE can be based on a one to many relationship. At act at least one of the TI IE or the indication of the type of identity is conveyed to a serving node e.g. a serving node in the set of one or more serving node s . At act the telecommunication process is continued.

At act an indication of a TI type is received as part of a telecommunication process wherein the indication of the TI type is received at a first serving node. The first serving node can be embodied in the serving node that implements e.g. executes the subject example method . The telecommunication process can be one of the various telecommunication processes described supra.

At act an address of a second serving node is extracted based at least on the indication of the TI type. The address of the second serving node can be a logical address such as an internet protocol IP address. In an aspect the extracting includes decoding the indication of the TI type wherein the decoding can include decoding a multi bit field within a TI IE e.g. GUTI IE that conveys a value of a TI associated with the indication of the TI type. As an example the decoding can include extracting a 3 bit value e.g. 111 or 101 in a received EPS Mobility Identity IE that conveys the TI type is a Mapped GUTI . In addition in certain embodiments decoding the indication of the TI type includes identifying a tag and associated value. For an indication that conveys that the TI value linked to the indication is part of a domain of values intrinsic to the radio technology utilized by the first serving node that receives the indication extracting the address is based on decoding the TI value. In an example embodiment for a first serving node e.g. a MME that operates in accordance with 3GPP LTE radio technology and that receives an indication of type of TI that conveys the TI value is native to 3GPP LTE radio technology extracting the address includes decoding a MME Group ID and a MME Code as defined in standardized protocol s e.g. 3GPP LTE Release 8 and identifying an IP address of a second serving node. In contrast for an indication that conveys that the TI value linked to the indication is part of a domain of values non intrinsic to the radio technology utilized by the first serving node that receives the indication extracting the address includes mapping a received TI value e.g. GUTI to an identifier value e.g. RAI P TMSI in a domain of the radio technology of the serving node and identifying a second serving node based at least on the identifier value. The first serving node can implement the mapping according to a radio technology standard protocol e.g. 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 protocol s or according to a custom mapping procedure based on specific features of architecture of wireless networks that include the first serving node MME SGSN etc. and the second serving node MME SGSN etc. .

In an example embodiment the first serving node implements e.g. executes act and in so doing the first serving node exploits at least in part an external resolution server e.g. a Domain Name Server which can be part of server s . In such example embodiment extracting the logical address of the second serving node based at least on the indication of the TI type includes accessing e.g. querying the external resolution server and receiving the logical address of the disparate serving node from the external resolution server in response to the accessing e.g. in response to the querying . In an alternative example embodiment the first serving node can execute a procedure or method that is internal to the first serving node in order to enact act . In such alternative example embodiment extracting the address of the second serving node based at least on the indication of the TI type includes executing a method of identifying such address. As described supra such method can be stored within a memory in the first serving node as one or more sets of computer executable code instructions.

At act a request for information is conveyed to the second serving node wherein the request for information is based on the address and related to the telecommunication process. At act the telecommunication process is continued.

Utilization of Mapped GUTI or other type of identity classifiers that disclose to a serving node a custom mapping to be exploited to extract a logical address of a disparate serving allows completion of telecommunication processes such as TAU update in wireless networks wherein a range of LAC or other unique identifiers exceeds the range contemplated in conventional 3GPP LTE Rel. 8.

Various advantages emerge from features or aspects of the one or more embodiments disclosed herein. As an example advantage the various embodiments of the subject disclosure enable any LTE service provider that operates a legacy 3GPP wireless network 3GPP UMTS 3GPP GPRS etc. and has assigned LAC values greater than a limiting value e.g. 32 767 to the field of operations sectors base stations etc. to operate an LTE wireless network without updating their legacy 3GPP wireless network to comply with non backward compatible requirement s in 3GPP LTE Rel. 8. As another example advantage the various embodiments of the subject disclosure allow specifying various categories via type of identify classifiers for example of GUTI in an LTE wireless network one or more of such categories can be linked or associated via a mapping for example with unique identifier domains in specific legacy wireless networks or advanced private and semi private networks. In addition the such categories enable resolving MME Group ID issues described supra.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Additionally various features of the subject innovation can be implemented in a computing device a UE a serving node a server etc. . Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

