---

title: Method and apparatus for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application
abstract: An approach is provided for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. An advertising platform receives a request, from an advertising module, for serving of advertisement information, wherein code for executing the advertising module is integrated with other code of an application executing at a device. The advertising platform causes, at least in part, processing of the advertisement information to include at least one verification check of the advertising module, the code for executing advertising module, the application, the other code associated with the application, or a combination thereof. The advertising platform causes, at least in part, transmission of the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information. The advertising platform causes, at least in part, processing of one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning of the advertising module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633364&OS=09633364&RS=09633364
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09633364
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20101230
---
Service providers e.g. wireless and cellular services and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of online application stores for making applications e.g. both first party and third party applications available to for instance mobile devices and or other user devices. As more advertisement capable applications are being developed by third parties and downloaded to user mobile phones via online stores more advertisements are served there through these applications. Although advertising traffic e.g. clicks views rates is relatively easy to measure they are susceptible to unscrupulous manipulation. It is noted that some of these applications can engage in fake reporting of advertising traffic to obtain financial gains. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to detect such fraud.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving a request from an advertising module for serving of advertisement information wherein code for executing the advertising module is integrated with other code of an application executing at a device. The method also comprises causing at least in part processing of the advertisement information to include at least one verification check of the advertising module the code for executing advertising module the application the other code associated with the application or a combination thereof. The method further comprises causing at least in part transmission of the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information. The method further comprises causing at least in part processing of one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning of the advertising module.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to receive a request from an advertising module for serving of advertisement information wherein code for executing the advertising module is integrated with other code of an application executing at a device. The apparatus is also caused to process the advertisement information to include at least one verification check of the advertising module the code for executing advertising module the application the other code associated with the application or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to transmit the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information. The apparatus is further caused to process one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning of the advertising module.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive a request from an advertising module for serving of advertisement information wherein code for executing the advertising module is integrated with other code of an application executing at a device. The apparatus is also caused to process the advertisement information to include at least one verification check of the advertising module the code for executing advertising module the application the other code associated with the application or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to transmit the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information. The apparatus is further caused to process one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning of the advertising module.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving a request from an advertising module for serving of advertisement information wherein code for executing the advertising module is integrated with other code of an application executing at a device. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part processing of the advertisement information to include at least one verification check of the advertising module the code for executing advertising module the application the other code associated with the application or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part transmission of the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part processing of one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning of the advertising module.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term verification check refers to an investigating event for electronic fraudulent traffic reporting. A verification check can be unknown to a third party application and transmitted via a normal advertisement information data channel. Although various embodiments are described with respect to click view fraud and similar schemes it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other electronic advertising traffic reporting fraud. Examples of electronic advertising include contextual advertisements on application pages banner ads rich media Ads social network advertising electronic classified advertising advertising networks and e mail marketing e.g. e mail spam etc.

As used herein the term electronic advertisement form format refers to any form or format of advertisement served via an electronic document and or application. Although various embodiments are described with respect to advertisement banners it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other electronic advertising forms or formats. Examines include a floating advertisement that moves across the user s screen or floats above the content expanding advertisement that changes size and that may alter the contents of the electronic document and or application polite advertisement that is downloaded in smaller pieces to minimize the disruption of the content being viewed wallpaper advertisement that changes the background of the content being viewed trick banner that looks like a dialog box with buttons and simulates an error message or an alert pop up pop under that is loaded or sent behind the current window so that the user does not see it until they close one or more active windows video advertisement map advertisement including text or graphics linked from and appearing in or over a location on an electronic map mobile advertisement including an SMS text or multimedia message sent to a cell phone superstitial including an animated adv using video 3D content or Flash to provide a TV like advertisement interstitial advertisement including a full page advertisement that appears before a user reaches their original destination etc.

Prior to presenting any advertisement triggers e.g. an advertisement banner etc. via the advertisement capable application the application communicates with an advertising platform to integrate therein an advertising module that inserts advertisement banners into one or more user interfaces such as graphical user interfaces GUIs touch screens motion tracking interfaces etc of the application. Each time an advertisement trigger is activated on a user interface screen the advertising module uses inline code to display advertisement content cached therein or fetched from an advertising platform server. An advertisement information serving request is sent to the advertising platform server when an advertisement trigger is activated. By way of example for sponsored advertisements the advertising platform server sends the corresponding advertisement information to display corresponding advertisement via the application and pays the application developer based on the number of clicks or impressions.

The major threat to the growth of online advertising revenues is fraudulent traffic such as click fraud view fraud etc. Trained botnets are deployed to make up false advertisement clicks and or impressions views via the third party applications that display the advertisements and maximize the revenue of the application developers. The overall industry average click fraud rate was 22.3 percent for the third quarter of 2010. When serving advertisements on user devices via a third party developed application the third party developer of the application has full control access to the advertisements and can engage in fake reporting by learning the behavior of the advertising module and replicating the in out requests programmatically. The advertising platform server cannot tell if the advertisement serving request comes from the client side advertising module or from the replicated functionality that fakes the clicks views to increase the developer s revenues while the advertisers have a very low return of investment.

Many traditional anti click fraud methods for web based applications cannot be applied to non web based third party applications. For example the anti click fraud methods in a web environment prevents the applications from generating fraud clicks to an advertisement banner in a web page because the advertisement banner is loaded into the affiliate application document object model DOM and can be controlled as any other element from the application. However this cannot be prevented for an advertisement banners in a non web based application running at desktop computers mobile devices etc.

To address these problems a system of introduces the capability to detect fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application running at UE . The system detects fraudulent advertisement traffic reporting events by initiating verification checks that are transmitted via normal advertisement information data channels unknown to the third party applications. These verification checks can be used to perpetuate click fraud and similar schemes. In some embodiments the system altered reporting parameters such as different reporting templates different reporting mechanisms different hash parameters or a combination thereof to check if the application changes the report accordingly. If not the system determines that there is evidence that the application and or developer may have committed a fraud.

In another embodiment the system requests the application to revalidate the report in a different format to check for fraud. If the application fails to change the reporting format accordingly the system determines the application and or the developer commits frauds.

In another embodiment the system assigns to each advertisement banner a unique id on the advertising platform side. Thereafter when delivering the HTML code for the banner the advertising platform also delivers the HTML code for non active regions e.g. HTML divs defined for instance by the HTML div tag then generates and loads the Cascading Style Sheets CSS on the client side advertising module. In one embodiment the divs or non active regions are unknown to the application and the developer. When the advertisement traffic report contains clicks on the non active divs the system determines that there is evidence that the application and or the developer may have committed a fraud.

In other embodiments the system sends custom code via a normal data channel to the user devices to use the third party applications to run the custom code and investigate if there is any fraud. The custom code may retrieves advertisement logs fetch action reports inspect advertisement lifecycles on the devices etc. Therefore the system obtains information of how the fraud mechanisms are implemented and obtains hard evidences of the fraud. The information can be used to improve the advertising module and the advisement platform server to eliminate these types of fraud implementation.

In yet other embodiments the system attaches the verification checks to existing estimated behavioral analysis systems and instructs the estimated behavioral analysis systems to run the verification checks on all suspicious developers. This approach addresses the problem of an estimated behavioral analysis system that typically requires significant human effort to analyze a huge amount of false positive fraud reports. This significantly reduces the false positive fraud reports.

The system can comprise user equipment UEs that may execute advertisement capable applications such as game applications media applications e.g. video audio images etc. messaging applications navigation applications map applications social networking applications retail purchasing applications etc. By way of example an advertisement capable application performs a task e.g. connecting to a gaming platform and displays an advertisement on a UE . Some or all of the applications may obtain services e.g. network services associated with advertisement capable applications via a communication network from a service platform . It is noted that in certain embodiments the advertisements may be displayed after the user selecting the application yet before user interacting with the application such as during booting up the application e.g. a gaming application . The approach described herein applies to any other situation in which advertisement is presented via the application at the UE .

To provide revenue for the application developer UE maker communication network provider etc. the advertisement capable applications or the UE itself can be associated with or embedded therein an advertising module . The advertising module can present advertisements to the user during the execution of the application before execution of the application after execution of the application or a combination thereof. The advertising module manages advertising access of the applications to network materials at different advertising platforms and servers in a customizable manner.

In one embodiment advertisements to be displayed to users of devices can be retrieved from the advertising platform by the applications stored in a cache of the UE and presented to the user. Advertising modules or engines can retrieve advertisements from the cache to present advertisements with one or more applications . In certain embodiments the advertising module is a program and or hardware resident on the UE that can retrieve advertisements from the advertising platform server and control presentation of the advertisements. The advertising module can fetch advertisements from the advertising platform server via an Application Programming Interface API to store in the cache for presentation via for instance the applications. Further the advertising module can provide an API for applications running the advertising module to request advertisements to present.

Although the applications and the advertising module are shown as independent client components in other configurations the advertising module may be incorporated directly into the applications such as by compiling the applications using shared or static libraries that include the functionality of the advertising module . Even when the applications include the functionality of the advertising module it may be desirable to have a system utility with some functionality for monitoring relevant activity of all applications in case malware is distributed as a rogue application .

In certain embodiments the advertisement capable application enables the use of the advertising module e.g. via an API to present advertisements associated with the application . As noted above the application may present the advertisements in a portion of a graphical user interface GUI associated with the application . Further the advertising module may control advertisements provided to and or presented by the applications . As the advertising module is used to present advertisements data can be collected by the advertising module and or a fraud management module of the UE . Such data can include for example whether the number of impressions of a particular advertisement the number of times the user clicked on one of the advertisements and or verification check for advertising traffic fraud was made etc.

In another embodiment the advertising module and or the fraud management module of the UE are lightweight pieces of code that only respond to instructions from the advertising platform by sending feedbacks and have no statistics of impressions clicks and or fraud detection. The advertising platform stores and handles reports statistics and fraud analysis. Therefore a third party developer may not access to these statistics and reports at the UE . In addition having minimum logic in the UE reduces the possibility of exposing the fraud detecting mechanism to the third party developer. Accordingly the lightweight code and minimum logic can result in improved power consumption efficiency thus extending operation time and the battery life of the UE .

The advertising module requests one or more advertisements from the advertising platform and receives one or more advertisements from the advertising platform . The advertising module can populate advertisement information into a local advertisement memory via an advertising platform . In certain embodiments the advertisements may be streamed or otherwise retrieved from the advertising platform . It is noted that the application or other system processes may perform the actions of the advertising module or a fraud management module of the UE .

The fraud management module can be utilized to analyze and manage states and advertisement traffic reporting data of the applications based on one or more algorithm. Further the fraud management module based on one or more algorithms can determine that a report is suspect to contain one or more click fraud type events and may block the reporting connection add a flag or other data to later connection requests to advertising platform and or direct the connection request to an analysis server or the fraud management console to handle the fraudulent event. The fraud management module may have other ways of detecting these types of fraudulent events for malware that does not access the applications . For example the fraud management module may be capable of directly monitoring one or more of the network stacks and or network drivers of the UE .

In another embodiment the fraud management module of the UE is a lightweight piece of code that only respond to instructions from the advertising platform by sending feedbacks and has no statistics of impressions clicks and or fraud detection. The reports statistics and fraud analysis are stored and handled by the advertising platform . As mentioned having minimum logic in the UE reduces the possibility of exposing the fraud detecting mechanism to the third party developer. As noted previously the lightweight code and minimum logic can result in improved power consumption efficiency thus extending operation time and the battery life of the UE .

The advertising module and or the fraud management module are configurable by the advertising platform and or the user either directly or via a system utility or application. A configuration UI component may be used to allow the user to change settings disable enable the advertising module and or the fraud management module associate the advertising module and or the fraud management module with particular applications etc. The UI component may be specific to the fraud management module or may be incorporated into applications using technologies such as Java Beans ActiveX etc. Similarly a notification UI component may be either standalone or incorporated into other applications. The notification UI component may be activated to inform the user when specific suspect events are detected.

The advertising platform may include advertising information e.g. advertisement content metadata execution code etc. that can be altered and or updated by a fraud management console . The fraud management console can be a workstation server or other computing device that may be utilized to alter and or update advertising information of the advertising platform e.g. specify new advertisements target demographics dates verification checks for frauds etc. . Additionally the advertising platform can receive a request from the fraud management console and or another device connected via the communication network to initiate a verification check for advertising traffic fraud for a target application or developer.

Further the fraud management console can be utilized to present reports as to how a verification check for advertising traffic fraud is implemented. The reports may include information as to what the goal of the verification check for advertising traffic fraud is e.g. the number of click view frauds the advertisements users clicks and or impressions associated with the frauds the fraudulent revenues associated with the verification checks etc. the actual rate at which the advertisements are being distributed etc. Moreover the fraud management console may additionally be utilized to enter input to manually adjust verification checks e.g. based on progress of the verification check for advertising traffic fraud . For example a human investigator can set or adjust a verification check based on determined fraudulent click through rates associated with advertisements presented at the UEs .

Since the system sends custom code via a normal data channel to the user devices there is no need to create a custom channel. In this way the system conserves operational and computational resources. In addition the system takes advantage of the third party applications to run the custom code and investigate if there is any fraud rather than using any custom applications to run the custom code thus further conserving the operational and computational resources.

The system can broadcast alerts of fraudulent applications and or developers to initiate an electronic verification check campaign for advertising traffic fraud. In some embodiments a verification check for advertising traffic fraud is a series of advertisements to convey one or more messages for the advertiser. The verification check for advertising traffic fraud can include one or more advertisements to present to the users. The verification check results and investigation results can be utilized to improve click through rates and user experience associated with the verification check for advertising traffic fraud as further described in processes of .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE the service platform and advertising platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the service platform and or the advertising platform may interact according to a client server model with the advertisement capable applications the advertising modules and or the fraud management modules . According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service e.g. messaging advertisements etc. . The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

In this embodiment the UE includes an user interface to receive input and provide output at the UE a communication interface to communicate over the network a runtime module to control the execution of advertisement capable applications the advertising module and the fraud management module an advertisement cache a power module and a location module .

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface etc. In certain embodiments the user interface may additionally have a vocal user interface component. As such a text to speech mechanism may be utilized to provide textual information to the user. Further a speech to text mechanism may be utilized to receive vocal input and convert the vocal input into textual input. Moreover the user interface may be utilized to provide visual output of applications and or advertisements. As previously noted the advertising module can control which advertisements are presented with which applications . Advertisements can be presented audibly e.g. as an audio output as a visual output e.g. image video or other media etc. and may be interactive.

The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over SMS MMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication protocols. The communication interface can be used by the runtime module to communicate with other UEs the service platform the advertising platform and other devices. In some examples the communication interface is used to transmit and receive communication messages to obtain services from the service platform and or advertisement information from the advertising platform . In certain embodiments advertising information includes advertisements verification check for advertising traffic frauds demographic information user profiles etc. Further the advertising module may utilize the communication interface to update the advertisement cache . As such the advertising module requests and receives advertisements.

As noted the UE includes a power module . The power module provides power to the UE . The power module can include any type of power source e.g. battery plug in etc. . Additionally the power module can provide power to the components of the UE including processors memory and transmitters. The power module may further provide the runtime module and or the advertising module with a status of the power supply e.g. a battery status such as battery low a time left for the battery at current power consumption a percentage of battery power left etc. .

The location module can determine a user s location. The user s location can be determined by a system such as a GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . In certain embodiments the location information can be utilized to determine demographic information and or user profiles associated with a user of the UE .

As discussed the advertising module implemented at the UE can detect an advertisement triggering event associated with user interface selections such as the selection of an advertisement in within a screen of an third party application . These events may be connection events pseudo user interface events application or system Application Program Interface API calls etc. The event results in a request being sent to the advertising platform that may be the target of click fraud or the like.

In one embodiment at or about the same time as the detected event the advertising module can detect certain system states where it would be unlikely or impossible for the user to have clicked. If the event is registered when one of these system states is detected then the resulting action e.g. connection to the advertising platform may be disregarded either by the advertising module the service platform and or some intermediary network element.

In another embodiment when an advertisement traffic reporting event is determined as suspicious by the fraud management module in the UE or the fraud management console connected to the advertising platform a number of options may be possible. For example the fraud management module may handle the event locally such as by blocking any outgoing actions e.g. network requests resulting from the event. Another option that may be taken by the fraud management module is to direct any suspect actions to the advertising platform and or an intermediary server for further analysis. The analysis server may have more up to date resources that can be used to determine evidence of fraudulent events.

Further the advertising platform and or the analysis server receive events from a large number of UEs and thus are made aware of the existence of the type quantity and signatures of distributed malware or other sources of suspicious events. Upon determining the directed suspect events the advertising platform and or the analysis server may block the associated application and or flag and forward an alert of the application .

It will be appreciated that the fraud management module according to embodiments of the invention may be configured to perform combinations of the optional actions when a suspect event is detected. For example the fraud management module may both flag and send the action to the target advertising platform and send a copy of the event action the analysis server or the fraud management console . In such a scenario the analysis server or the fraud management console would typically block any further sending of data to the target advertising platform . It will also be appreciated that the actions taken by the fraud management module and or the analysis server may differ depending on previous actions taken. For example if the fraud management module sends a certain threshold number of flagged suspect actions it may thereafter choose to block further actions from going to the target advertising platform and or direct further actions to the analysis server or the fraud management console .

The communication interface can be used to communicate with UEs the fraud management console and other devices available over the communication network . The execution module can receive information e.g. a request for advertisements demographic information user profiles etc. from the UE via the communication interface via methods such as internet protocol Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Short Message Service SMS GPRS or any other available communication method. Components in the communication network and or communication interface may be utilized to convert one form of communication to another form e.g. from an SMS to another form of data .

The campaign module can be utilized to receive communications from the advertisers and or advertisement brokers to obtain advertisement information. As such one or more advertisements may be provided according to terms of when and or to whom the advertisements should be presented as specified by the advertisers and or advertisement brokers. For example the advertisements can be associated with parameters to show the advertisements based on certain demographic information. The parameters may additionally utilize user profiles that the user is within a particular demographic to determine whether an associated adverting campaign should be directed and or served towards the user.

In another embodiment the campaign module can be utilized to receive communications from the fraud management console and to obtain advertisement information with verification checks. As such one or more verification checks for advertising traffic frauds associated with an application or developer may be provided in conjunction with advertisements for when and or to whom the advertisements should be presented. As such the campaign module can utilize one or more distribution algorithms utilizing the third party application and or developer information available and or associated user profiles or groupings of user profiles to determine improve delivery of advertisements associated with the verification check for advertising traffic fraud. The third party application and or developer information click through rate information about the user user profiles verification check results etc. About users can be stored in the user database .

Moreover the campaign module can receive requests for initiating verification check campaigns for a target application or developer under fraud alerts. The request or subsequent information associated with a verification check campaign can be utilized to populate the advertising database . Thus the advertising database can include one or more advertisements associated with one or more verification check for advertising traffic frauds. The advertising database can additionally include statistical information about one or more of the advertisements and or verification check for advertising traffic frauds. The statistical information may include normal and fraudulent click through rates or other measures of advertisement activity as well as information a target application or developer under fraud alerts. The reporting interface can be utilized to generate and present reports associated with the statistical information gathered in the advertising database . These reports can be presented via the fraud management console and or other UEs or devices communicatively connected to the advertising platform .

When a user clicks on an advertisement triggering object within a screen of a third party application an advertisement request is sent to the local advertising module which then sends the request to an advertising platform described in the object to retrieve relevant advertisement information. The code for executing the advertising module can be integrated with other code of an advertisement capable application executing at the UE . The advertisement information may contain data that describes the requesting source of the advertisement e.g. the third party application ID and other data that enables the advertising platform to determine what advertisement has been requested e.g. an advertisement ID the time of the request e.g. a timestamp etc. For example the advertisement information may contain a tag such as AD INFO

Clicking the triggering object causes a connection e.g. a TCP IP connection to be requested with the advertising platform whose Internet Protocol IP address maps to ad.adsvrplat.net. It will be appreciate that the connections described herein may be initiated from applications such as email client word processor etc. And may use protocols e.g. HTTPS FTP SIP etc.

Instead of using tags in the screen of the third party application to redirect an advertisement request to the advertising platform some other selectable object may be used such as a Java Applet Flash animation bookmark URI component etc. Further instead of pointing to the target advertising platform the URL may point to an intermediary advertisement server which intercepts the request logs the source of the request e.g. the module application that generated the request and the platform which the request has selected and then directs the request to the advertising platform . The connections to the advertising platform and or intermediary Web site may involve session tracking object such as cookies in order to validate requests and correlate this request with other user behavior.

In step the advertising platform receives the request from the advertising module of the UE for serving of the advertisement information associated with the words AD INFO within the tag. After the advertising platform receives and accepts the HTTP connection it retrieves from the advertisement database the advertisement corresponding to advertisement ID . In this example the retrieved advertisement may include the URL contains a parameter ID 1003 or the name of the advertisement sponsor e.g. Borders .

The advertising platform causes at least in part processing of the advertisement information to include in the advertisement associated with Borders at least one verification check Step . The verification check may be associated with the advertising module the code for executing advertising module the advertisement capable application the other code associated with the application or a combination thereof. The various forms and formats of verification checks are later discussed in conjunction with .

The advertising platform causes at least in part transmission of the at least one verification check in response to the request for serving of the advertisement information Step . After receiving the advertisement information the advertising module presents the advertisement within the screen of the third party application . The advertising platform causes at least in part processing of one or more results of the at least one verification check to determine a functioning e.g. detecting fraudulent acts debug via investigation code of the advertising module Step .

After serving the requested advertisement to the user via the application at the UE the advertising module sends via a normal data channel an advertisement serving report to the advertising platform and or the fraud management console Step . In one embodiment the fraud management module is a lightweight piece of code that handles and executes different security verification checks instructed by the advertising platform . No state and no statistics or reports are recorded on the UE such that a third party developer can not access these reports via the UE . In addition the piece of code is kept light weight to hide from the third party developer. Accordingly the lightweight code and minimum logic can result in improved power consumption efficiency thus extending operation time and the battery life of the UE .

An advertisement serving report can be a summary of all current and past advertisements and or advertisements campaigns that have been served via the application IP addresses of the users consumed the Ads etc. The range of the report can be selected by the start and end dates a time period e.g. one or more hours days weeks months years etc. a number of reporting instances a number of fraud instances a monetary value of the advertisement revenue etc. The reports may be generated in any selected format such as HTML Excel PDF etc. In addition the report may contain ad initiated user activity purchase registration etc. that is required by the advertiser and or broker.

The report includes the performance of a particular advertisement or advertisements in a campaign via an advertisement trigger or over multiple advertisement triggers. For example the number of clicks or impressions can be tracked by the advertising module. The estimates information can then be tabulated reported and or analyzed. Upon evaluation of the performance data certain decisions can be made. These decisions can include increasing the number of advertisements at advertisement triggers where the number of clicks impressions are relatively high or lowering the number of advertisements at locations where the number of clicks impressions are relatively low. For particular applications performance characteristic thresholds can be set or dynamically calculated so that real time deployment or re deployment of advertisements can be performed.

The common ways in which electronic advertising is charged includes Cost Per Mille CPM Cost Per Click CPC Cost Per Action CPA etc. Cost Per Mille is also called Cost Per Thousand CPT is where advertisers are charged for exposure impressions of their message to a specific audience. By way of example Table 1 shows the advertisements sponsored by different business entities and received different numbers of clicks impressions and corresponding yields to action order. Table 1 also shows the placement of an advertisement is in what position within a user interface screen such as the right corner of Screen 21 Rco21 the top center of Screen 8 TC08 etc. for evaluating the effectiveness of placement locations.

By way of example the third entry in Table 1 with respect to application ID may be fraudulent since the click and impression numbers were high yet the yields were relatively low. There may be other reasons for the low yields. For example the advertisement triggers are appealing e.g. the best possible prices you can find online while the actual advertisements carrying unattractive sale terms e.g. high shipping handling cost etc. . The various verification checks will be discussed in connection with to find out whether there is actual fraud.

In the realm of click fraud a botnet could be used to distribute small communication protocol clients that simulate the advertising module activity in order to generate false click through rates. Generally this malware would run in the background of the application and consume few resources in order to avoid detection. The malware can be widely distributed both in time and in a number of infected UEs to generate fraudulent click through traffic. As perpetrators find new and inventive ways to outmaneuver anti click fraud measures it becomes very important to investigate the new fraudulent mechanisms and diagnose actual click through data thereby preventing malicious code from operating on the UEs .

According the verification process depicted in the fraud management console analyzes a report generated via the normal process of and discovers signs of potential frauds. By way of example the third entry of Table 1 shows an unusually high click through rate with a relative low yield of 0.3 . In step the fraud management console requests the advertising platform to insert custom code into the advertisement information for a verification check. In step the advertising platform includes investigation code in the verification check which is sent via a normal data channel to the advertisement capable application running on the UE as discussed with respect to the normal process in . In one embodiment the verification check is embedded or incorporated in normal advertisement information and sent together with the advertisement information to the application . In another embodiment the verification check is sent via the normal data channel yet sent separately from the normal advertisement information.

When the advertising module fetches advertisement information as usual the custom code comes through the data channel and will be executed on the suspected application environment with full access to investigate the fraud. In step the advertisement capable application executes the custom code and the advertising module generates a new advertising serving report including investigation data according to the custom code. The report is then sent to the fraud management console for further analysis. The fraud management console receives investigation data generated by the application based at least in part on the investigation code. The investigation code includes one or more diagnostics of at least one serving status of the advertisement information at the UE . The investigation code can be custom scripting code e.g. JavaScript to be used by the client advertising module . The investigation data includes at least in part one or more parameters of an execution context of the advertising module the application or a combination thereof. The execution context of the advertising module may include the status of the application operation parameters what libraries have been called etc.

By way of example the investigation code contains all JavaScript code to be executed in different execution contexts. The JavaScript code includes global code code executed inline normally as a JavaScript file or HTML page loads gets executed in global execution context and each invocation of a function has an associated execution context. A new execution context is created whenever control is transferred from the executable code associated with the currently running execution context to executable code that is not associated with that execution context. An execution context contains whatever state is necessary to track the execution progress of its associated code. In addition each execution context has the state components such as identifier references made by code within the execution context bindings created by variable statements and function declarations within this execution context etc. JavaScript execution context may include closures creating classes objects and object members in JavaScript status of actual parameters etc. The determination of the functioning of the advertising module is further based at least in part on the comparison of the actual parameters against expected values for the parameters.

When a third party developer wants to obtain revenues from fraudulent use of the advertising module the developer fetches the unique security code given to the developer to identify and verify the report requests and then makes requests manually or with botnets using the security code. Various techniques can be used by the developer to make each request appear to be from a different source e.g. generation of random cookies emulation of different types of connections to the advertising platform use of various alternate routes if available to send the advertisement requests generation of random local machine data e.g. IP address assigned to the Ethernet interface etc.

One way the system detects this is to modify the response that contains the security code by making it run a custom function sent from the advertising platform as a parameter in the context of the advertisement capable application . This way the system can compile a series of diagnostics of what is the current state of the advertising module whether the advertisement is actually shown to the user etc. With a custom function that can be modified at will the third party developer cannot anticipate the outcome hence not being able to fake the response. Once a diagnostic is compiled a report is sent to the fraud management console to store and analyze so as to determine the integrity of the advertising module and the fraudulent mechanisms. By way of example a fraudulent entity can use Trojan code to turn the average person s machines into zombie computers and uses sporadic redirects or domain name system DNS cache poisoning to turn the compromised user s actions into actions for generating revenue for the fraudulent entity.

The verification process in involves a situation that the third party developer alters the advertising module code at will and monitories the outcome. If the fraud management console discovers an unusual high rate of monetization for an affiliated application ID and or developer ID it pushes an alternate code for the advertising module for all requests containing that affiliate ID. The alternate code defines a different way for reporting user interactions with advertisements. If the subsequent reports sent from that affiliate ID are still in the pre alternation way the advertising traffic is deemed to be programmatic since the application does not reacted to the code alternation.

According a verification process depicted in the fraud management console determines to deploy one or more altered reporting parameters. In step the fraud management console requests the advertising platform to alter reporting parameters in the advertisement information for a verification check. The one or more altered reporting parameters are included in the at least one verification check and sent to the application . By way of example in addition to the advertisement information sent in the normal process in some reporting parameters such as a custom param with random value a custom param with random value and or a custom param to describe how to use the other custom param when reporting advertisement metrics are included in the advertisement information sent to the application Step .

The fraud management console determines the functioning of the advertising module based at least in part on a determination of whether one or more advertisement serving reports generated by the application conform to the one or more altered reporting parameters Step . The one or more altered reporting parameters include one or more different reporting templates e.g. a different arrangement of columns and rows of a reporting table one or more different reporting mechanisms e.g. via emails SMS etc. one or more different hash parameters or a combination thereof. The one or more altered reporting parameters are generated randomly or substantially randomly.

By way of example a predefined set of parameters are set to build a hash for sending a report in response to a user interaction to the as platform to validate the legitimacy of that specific user interaction. To detect when the user interaction has been replaced by malicious third party developers dynamically change the set of parameters that a hash can be built of e.g. adding a parameter that can alter the way the hash is to be built . The normal workflow is as follows. A user interacts with the advertisement within the application an action is generated based upon the user interaction and a hash is built based on a set of parameters a request is made to the advertising platform with the action and the verification hash by the application . The action gets stored and an acknowledge response is sent to the advertising module from the advertising platform . When fraud management console wants to alter the set of parameters instead of sending an acknowledge to the advertising module the advertising platform sends a new packed function footprint that defines the new set of parameters to be used to build the hash. This footprint will be used at the application to alter the function that builds the verification hash. Any subsequent report should use the new way of building the hash or the reports are not valid. This technique can be enabled each time manually or be used in conjunction with an expiration period.

In another embodiment the fraud management console changes the outgoing action such as by adding a predetermined flag to the data e.g. add a parameter to a URL set a value in a cookie before the advertisement information is sent from the advertising platform to the application . This enables the fraud management console to detect additional illicit activity and investigate further.

When the fraud management console detects a fraudulent advertisement traffic reporting event the fraud management console may choose to discard deny the connection to the advertising platform . Optionally the fraud management console broadcasts to other advertisement entities e.g. advertising platforms and servers the fraudulent advertisement traffic reporting event and the associated advertisement capable application and the UE so that the advertisement entities can flag the application and the UE as suspect. In some cases e.g. to further investigate the fraudulent mechanisms and botnets it may be better to allow the connection to the advertising platform to go through but flag the application and UE as suspect in some established way. The other advertisement entities may be able to collect additional data related to the application and the UE so as to determine if the suspect advertising traffic is due to some new contingency. In either case the users may be provided with the option of deciding which course of action to take such as by selecting or altering a UE configuration setting. By way of example the users can opt out on sending private user data. In another embodiment the users are not allowed to opt out data states that are advertising module specific such that the UEs are subject to verifications checks reports etc.

The verification process in accepts advertisement metrics reports and responds with acknowledge of receiving those reports. On the application side there is no further step after receiving a report success message. The fraud management console can find the fraudulent reports by randomly modifying the report success message to include a custom request for re verification. For example the advertising platform requests the application to report success. Please confirm the report using this custom template template and include this additional data data for subsequent reports. Any automated botnets will fail to adapt and deliver the report with newly requested template and or data.

According the verification process depicted in in step the advertising platform sends via a normal data channel advertisement information to the advertising module integrated with the application running on the UE in response to a request sent there from. After serving the requested advertisement to the user via the application the advertising module sends via a normal data channel an advertisement serving report to the fraud management console Step . Steps occur the same way as Step of the normal process of . In step the fraud management console determines to cause at least in part transmission of a request re validate the at least one advertisement serving report. The request to re validate specifies at least in part a different reporting mechanism e.g. a different reporting template .

When dealing with advertisements the system needs to ensure the advertisement traffic reports are genuine. One way to verify such reports is by asking the application to re validate the report. When an advertisement traffic report is made to the advertising platform at times the advertising platform may respond with a new report format to validate. The application cannot anticipate and re validate the reports. This verification process can happen as many times as necessary. In another embodiment using a new reporting template the advertising module generates a new validation hash and sends a re validation report to the advertising platform .

The verification process in finds the fraudulent affiliates and evidence of the fraud. According a verification process depicted in the fraud management console determines to generate execution code to cause at least in part embedding of one or more non active portions of the advertisement information wherein the non active portions are unknown to the application instructs the advertising platform to include in advertisement information non active regions or divs unknown to the application Step . The advertising platform determines to generate execution code to cause at least in part embedding of one or more non active portions of the advertisement information wherein the non active portions are unknown to the application . The advertising platform also determines to generate execution code to cause at least in part embedding of one or more non active portions of the advertisement information wherein the non active portions are unknown to the application . The advertising platform further determines to include the execution code in the advertisement information. The advertising platform further determines to generate a reporting request to the application to report one or more user interaction areas of the advertisement information. The advertisement information is sent to the application via normal data channel in step .

By way of example a 500 px 80 px advertisement banner is delivered from the advertising platform to the advertisement capable application with a set of divs e.g. 400 1 px 1 px transparent divs are set to cover 10 of the banner surface. Then the advertising platform generates a CSS to randomly position those divs over the banner surface. This is done for each advertisement delivered and is stored on the advertising platform . Those small divs will prevent clicks on banners at their position.

In step the fraud management console determines the functioning of the advertising module based at least in part on a comparison of the one or more non active portions against the one or more reported user interaction portions. When a click is reported to the advertising platform the position of the click is compared with the position of the divs in the banner. If the reported click is on any of those non active positions the fraud management console can determine that there is evidence of potential fraud. Having a report with 1 000 000 clicks and 80 000 of which are on invalid positions it is clear that there is evidence of a fraudulent application and or developer.

Since the advertising platform sends custom code via a normal data channel to the user devices there is no need to create a custom channel. In this way the system conserves operational and computational resources. In addition the advertising platform takes advantage of the third party applications to run the custom code and investigate if there is any fraud rather than using any custom applications to run the custom code thus further conserving the operational and computational resources.

The security of the system can be achieved by obscurity. These verification checks made available for diagnosis and verifications only to the system and its internal users. The verification checks are maintained with no or minimum exposure externally especially not to the third party developer.

In another embodiment when the end users of the UEs are interested to know that potentially fraudulent activity occurred on the UE the users may be presented with information about what fraud has occurred. This notification may be through user output hardware not shown of the UE or through messaging e.g. text message email . An advertisement service provider or system administrator may also be interested in such fraudulent activity and desire alert messages. are diagrams of user interfaces utilized in the verification process of according to various embodiments. shows a screenshot includes a prompt Verification Check Report and a Display button . After the user selects the Display button an entry of the Verification Check Report is shown in a screenshot of that includes an advertisement ID field a Day field a Click field a Yield field and a Revalidate button . After the user selects the Revalidate button an entry of the Verification Check Report of a different format is shown in a screenshot of that includes an advertisement ID field a Click field a Yield field an Advertiser field and a Revalidated button .

The processes described herein for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to detect fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the advertising platform for detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application at the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to detect fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of detecting fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to detect fraudulent advertising traffic initiated through an application. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

