---

title: Test method and test device
abstract: To provide a method and device for testing the size and conductivity of a foreign material adhered to a substrate for a liquid crystal display device, there is provided a method of testing whether a foreign material including a metal element is adhered to a substrate for a liquid crystal display device, the method including a first test step of detecting the size and position of the foreign material adhered to the substrate and a next step of testing whether the foreign material includes the metal element at the position detected in the first test step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08358735&OS=08358735&RS=08358735
owner: Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.
number: 08358735
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101104
---
This application is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 625 174 filed on Nov. 24 2009 which was a Continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2008 052560 filed on Feb. 15 2008 and which claimed priority to JP Application Nos. 2008 531053 filed on Feb. 15 2008 and 2008 010300 filed on Jan. 21 2008 all of which are incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a method and device for testing a fine foreign material adhered to a substrate used for a liquid crystal display device before the liquid crystal display device is assembled.

As is well known in the related art a liquid crystal display device includes two substrates and liquid crystal sealed therebetween. In the liquid crystal display device a voltage is applied between electrodes provided on the two substrates to drive the liquid crystal in each pixel thereby changing the optical property of the liquid crystal. In this way the liquid crystal display device controls the transmission and shielding of light to display an image on a screen.

In general a substrate having a glass plate as a base and liquid crystal driving electrodes provided on the base has been used as the above mentioned substrate. The electrode provided on one of the two substrates is transparent. For example an ITO thin film is used as the electrode. The electrode provided on the other substrate is changed depending on a liquid crystal driving type. For example a plurality of transparent electrodes or reflecting electrodes is arranged for each pixel and a plurality of TFTs is connected to each of the plurality of electrodes.

Color filter films that color display light may be provided on these substrates. The color filter film includes a plurality of coloring films that is arranged so as to correspond to the pixels. For example red R green G and blue B coloring films are arranged so as to correspond to the pixels. It is possible to display a color image on the screen by using a substrate including the color filter film. The substrate including the color filter film is sometimes referred to as a color filter .

Therefore these substrates of the liquid crystal display device are manufactured through a plurality of complicated processes such as a process of cleaning the surface of a glass plate a process of forming an electrode film a process of patterning the electrode film a TFT forming process and a color filter film forming process.

Each of the manufacturing processes of the substrate is generally performed in a clean room. Nonetheless a fine foreign material is likely to be adhered to the substrate during any one of the complicated manufacturing processes. It is considered that the foreign material is caused by dust in the atmosphere of the clean room.

The foreign material adhered to the substrate is likely to damage the surface of an opposite substrate when the liquid crystal display device is assembled. Therefore the substrate having the foreign material adhered thereto is excluded as a defective product from a liquid crystal display device assembly process and is then corrected or the glass base is collected and reproduced or discarded.

However it has been known that among the foreign materials a foreign material with a diameter of 30 m or more damages the opposite substrate. In addition a foreign material with a diameter of 20 m or more is also likely to damage the opposite substrate depending on the kind of liquid crystal display devices manufactured. Therefore when the size of the foreign material is smaller than the above mentioned value the foreign material is ignored during the assembly of the liquid crystal display device without being removed.

However these foreign materials may include a conductive material. When a substrate having the conductive foreign material adhered thereto is used to assemble the liquid crystal display device the electrodes of two substrates opposite to each other are short circuited making it difficult to normally display an image on the screen. This short circuit occurs even when the diameter of the conductive foreign material is smaller than 20 m.

When the foreign material adhered to the substrate is a conductive material the substrate with the foreign material is excluded from the liquid crystal display device assembly process regardless of the diameter thereof. When the foreign material adhered to the substrate is a non conductive material it is necessary to exclude the substrate with only the foreign materials with a diameter of more than 20 m or 30 m from the liquid crystal display device assembly process. If the substrate having a foreign material with a small diameter adhered thereto is excluded without discriminating conductive and non conductive materials non defective substrates are also excluded which results in a significant reduction in yield. If the substrate having a foreign material with a small diameter adhered thereto is used during the liquid crystal display device assembly process without discriminating conductive and non conductive materials the assembled liquid crystal display device becomes a defective product which results in an increase in loss.

However it is very difficult to test whether the fine foreign material is a conductive material. It is considered that the conductive foreign material is also caused by dust in the atmosphere of the clean room. Therefore the surface of the conductive foreign material is likely to be oxidized. In the liquid crystal display device assembly process it is assumed that the oxide film on the surface of the foreign material is damaged and a conductive inner part is exposed which causes a short circuit. Therefore it is difficult to test whether there is a foreign material during a substrate manufacturing process before the liquid crystal display device assembly process.

In addition the test needs to be rapidly and effectively performed without delaying the substrate manufacturing process. If it takes a long time to perform the test the test process becomes a rate controlling process and the overall substrate manufacturing process is delayed significantly.

For example Patent Documents 1 and 2 disclose a method of testing whether a foreign material is adhered to a substrate or the height of the foreign material. However it is impossible to test whether there is a conductive foreign material using this method.

In addition Patent Document 3 discloses a method of testing a short circuit between the electrodes after a liquid crystal display device is assembled. However in this method the entire short circuited liquid crystal display device is treated as a defective product.

The invention has been made in order to solve the above mentioned problems and an object of the invention is to provide a method of testing the size and conductivity of a foreign material adhered to a substrate. A test object may be two piece of substrate sandwiching a liquid crystal for a liquid crystal display device. In particular an object of the invention is to provide a method of effectively testing a substrate during a substrate manufacturing process.

That is according to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method of testing whether a foreign material including an Fe element or an Al element is adhered to a substrate for a liquid crystal display device in order to select the substrate having the foreign material adhered thereto and remove the substrate during a substrate manufacturing process 

As described above it is very difficult to directly test whether a fine foreign material is a conductive material. From experience a conductive foreign material adhered to the substrate in the substrate manufacturing process is iron or aluminum. Therefore in any of the further steps of the invention it is tested whether a metal element is included in the foreign material and it is possible to estimate whether there is a conductive material based on whether the metal element is included in the foreign material. In addition even when the surface of the foreign material is oxidized it is possible to easily estimate whether there is a conductive material. Therefore it is possible to effectively and rapidly test the substrate as compared to the case where it is directly tested whether the fine foreign material is a conductive material.

According to the invention first in the first test step the size of the foreign material adhered to the substrate is detected. When the detected foreign material damages the opposite substrate it is possible to exclude the substrate as a defective product from the liquid crystal display device assembly process.

For the remaining substrates that is the substrates from which a foreign material having a sufficient size to damage the opposite substrate is not detected it is tested whether the foreign material includes a metal element and then it is estimated whether there is a conductive material in any of the further steps. Therefore it is possible to effectively and rapidly perform a test process as compared to the case where it is tested whether there is a conductive foreign material on all the substrates. In addition since the position of the foreign material is detected in the first test step it is possible to perform any of the further steps based on the detected position. Therefore it is possible to improve the efficiency and speed of the test process.

In any of the further steps it is tested whether a metal element is included in the foreign material and it is estimated whether there is a conductive material based on whether a metal element is included in the foreign material. Therefore it is possible to rapidly and effectively perform a test process regardless of whether the surface of the foreign material is oxidized.

Therefore the method of testing the size and conductivity of the foreign material adhered to the substrate according to the first aspect of the invention can be used in the substrate manufacturing process to effectively and rapidly test a substrate.

An aspect of the invention defines the size of a foreign material that damages an opposite substrate. In the test method according to an aspect the size is a diameter of 20 m. In addition it is preferable that the size be a diameter of 5 m.

The invention limits the detected metal element to an Fe element or an Al element since a conductive foreign material is generally iron or aluminum thereby improving the efficiency of detection. In the test method according to any one of the aspects the metal element is an Fe element or an Al element.

An aspect of the invention provides a method capable of detecting a metal element at a high speed in a non contact manner. In the test method according to the first aspects any on of the further steps is based on an X ray fluorescence spectrometer.

An aspect of the invention provides a method capable of detecting a metal element at a high speed in a non contact manner. In the test method according to an aspect any of the further steps is based on an X ray fluorescence spectrometer.

A detecting method based on the X ray fluorescence spectrometer radiates X rays with a short wavelength and high energy to a foreign material which is a test target and measures the wavelength and intensity of fluorescent X rays generated in response to the X rays. The wavelength of the fluorescent X ray is peculiar to an element included in the foreign material and the intensity of the fluorescent X ray is related to the content of the element. Therefore it is possible to detect the kind of metal element included in the foreign material and the content thereof by measuring the wavelength and intensity of the generated fluorescent X ray. According to this method it is possible to detect the metal element in a non contact manner. Therefore it is possible to detect the element at a high speed without physically damaging the surface of the substrate. In this specification both words X ray fluorescence analysis and fluorescent X ray analysis are used as an identical word. 

According to the aspects of the invention the method and device for testing the size and conductivity of the foreign material adhered to the substrate can be used in the substrate manufacturing process to effectively and rapidly test a substrate.

A second aspect of the present invention is a test device of detecting a foreign material including an Fe element or an Al element adhered to a substrate for a liquid crystal display device in order to select the substrate having the foreign material adhered thereto and remove the substrate during a substrate manufacturing process 

wherein the information of the coordinates of the position of the foreign material does not include information of coordinates of position of a foreign material with a sufficient size to damage an opposite substrate.

wherein the information of the coordinates of the position of the foreign material include both information of coordinates of position of a foreign material with a sufficient size to damage an opposite substrate and information of coordinates of position of a foreign material with an insufficient size to damage an opposite substrate 

wherein the camera unit which captures the image of the position where there is the foreign material after position of the camera unit is adjusted so as to match the position of the foreign material based on one or both of the information related to the foreign material of the sufficient size and the information related to the foreign material of the insufficient size.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Before any of the further steps in the test device according to the embodiment of the invention the entire surface of a color filter which is a test target is tested in a first test step and the position and size of a foreign material defect are specified. Information about the position and size of the foreign material defect can be used in the test device .

The color filter carried onto a color filter transport unit of the test device in an upstream process is held and fixed by a holding mechanism such that the surface thereof faces upward. An appropriate number of holding mechanisms are provided on both sides of a transport path of the color filter to hold the ends of the color filter . The holding mechanism reciprocates in a straight line along linear driving mechanisms that are provided on both sides of the transport path. In this way the color filter is transported in the direction of an arrow A in the test device .

In order to ensure linear movement for example a guide rail may be used as the linear driving mechanism lib and a ball screw and a motor may be used as the driving mechanism. A linear motor or a combination of a timing belt and a motor may be used as the driving mechanism.

When the size of the color filter is large it is generally difficult to stably support the color filter only with the holding mechanism and the linear driving mechanism lib. Therefore the color filter transport unit may include a transport roller or an air cushion mechanism and support the lower surface of the color filter . In this embodiment the air cushion mechanism is used in the vicinity of a main component of the test device which will be described below and a transport roller is used in the vicinity of an inlet and an outlet of the test device .

A test head is supported above the color filter transport unit by a test head moving mechanism and can be moved in a direction the direction of an arrow B orthogonal to the transport direction of the color filter . Similar to the linear driving mechanism the test head moving mechanism may be composed of for example a guide rail a combination of a ball screw and a motor a linear motor or a combination of a timing belt and a motor.

In this embodiment the color filter transport unit transports the color filter in one direction and the test head can be moved in a direction orthogonal to the transport direction of the color filter . In this way the test head can be moved to an arbitrary position on the color filter . However the color filter transport unit may move the color filter in an XY direction and the test head may be moved above the color filter in the XY direction.

A control unit controls the driving of the color filter transport unit or the test head moving mechanism based on the size and the coordinates of the position of the foreign material defect on the color filter obtained by for example another optical test device in the first test step to position the test head with respect to the foreign material defect. After the positioning operation the test head and a test unit including an analysis unit and a determining unit test a metal element included in the foreign material which will be described in detail below . The control unit controls the operations of the test head the analysis unit and the determining unit if necessary. In addition the test head is provided with a fluorescent X ray analysis unit which will be described below. The fluorescent X ray analysis unit detects the metal element included in the foreign material. The size of a spot measured by the fluorescent X ray analysis unit is significantly smaller than that of the color filter . However since the position of the foreign material defect is detected in the first test step it is possible to rapidly perform positioning by disposing the fluorescent X ray analysis unit at the detected position. In addition the fluorescent X ray analysis unit can detect the kind of metal element included in the foreign material and the content thereof without contacting the color filter . Therefore it is possible to perform detection at a high speed without physically damaging the surface of the color filter .

In this case the control unit may test all the foreign materials specified by for example another optical test device. Alternatively the control unit may set a predetermined reference to the size of the foreign material and select a foreign material to be tested according to the reference. When a foreign material having a sufficient size to damage the opposite substrate of the liquid crystal display device is detected by for example another optical test device the substrate is excluded from a manufacturing process or it is corrected. Therefore in general a foreign material having a size smaller than a predetermined reference is selected as a test target. As described above since the size of the foreign material that damages the opposite substrate is equal to or more than 30 m or 20 m. Therefore 20 m may be set as a reference value and a substrate including a foreign material with a size equal to or more than the reference value may be excluded from the manufacturing process. In this case for the remaining substrates that is the substrates from which a foreign material having a sufficient size to damage the opposite substrate is not detected it is tested whether the foreign material includes a metal element. Therefore it is possible to effectively and rapidly perform a test process as compared to the case where it is tested whether there is a conductive foreign material on all the substrates. When 5 m is set as a reference value it is possible to further reduce the possibility that a defective liquid crystal display device is manufactured.

For example LAN communication serial communication a digital I O board and various kinds of recording media such as a floppy registered trademark disk may be used as an input unit that inputs information about the size and position of the foreign material defect to the control unit .

When the fluorescent X ray analysis unit is positioned based on information on the position of the foreign material specified by another optical test device the fluorescent X ray analysis unit may not be disposed at the position of the foreign material depending on the positioning accuracy of the color filter transport unit and the test head moving mechanism . In particular it is actually difficult to dispose the fluorescent X ray analysis unit at the position of the foreign material with a size in the range of several tens of micrometers to several micrometers on a color filter having a side with a length of several meters using the moving mechanism that can move the fluorescent X ray analysis unit at an arbitrary position on the entire surface of the color filter.

In the test device according to this embodiment the camera unit including a CCD camera which is an imaging unit a lens and a lamp is provided in the test head . The test head is moved to a position on the color filter where a foreign material to be tested is placed captures the image of the position where the foreign material is placed processes the image to extract a foreign material defect and determines the detailed coordinates of the position of the foreign material from the current position of the camera unit and the position of the foreign material in the image. Of course when the accuracy of the positioning of the test head to the coordinates of the position of the foreign material is sufficiently high the camera unit may not be provided in the test head .

As shown in the camera unit may be fixed to the fluorescent X ray analysis unit and moved integrally therewith. Alternatively the camera unit may be moved separately from the fluorescent X ray analysis unit .

Then the fluorescent X ray analysis unit is moved to the detailed coordinates of the foreign material determined by the camera unit . Specifically the fluorescent X ray analysis unit is moved to a position where an X ray source of the fluorescent X ray analysis unit can radiate X rays with a short wavelength and high energy to the coordinates of the foreign material . Fluorescent X rays peculiar to an element included in the foreign material are emitted from the foreign material irradiated with the X rays. Therefore an X ray detector detects the fluorescent X rays.

The X ray detector transmits information on the wavelength and intensity of the measured fluorescent X rays to the analysis unit . The analysis unit analyzes the kind of element included in the foreign material and the content thereof based on the received information and transmits the analysis result to the determining unit .

The determining unit compares the analysis result with a predetermined threshold value corresponding to the kind of detected metal elements. When any one of the metal elements is more than the threshold value the determining unit estimates that the foreign material on the color filter is a conductive material and determines that the color filter is defective. From experience in general the conductive foreign material is iron or aluminum. Therefore the metal element to be detected may be limited to an Fe element or an Al element. In this case it is possible to improve the efficiency of detection as compared to a method of detecting all metal elements. In addition the content of these metal elements is used as the threshold value. However a numerical value related to the content of the metal elements may be used as the threshold value. For example instead of the content of the metal element the intensity of a fluorescent X ray peculiar to the metal element may be used as the threshold value. For example the intensity of a fluorescent X ray peculiar to the Fe element or the intensity of a fluorescent X ray peculiar to the Al element is measured and the measured value is compared with a predetermined threshold value. When the measured value is more than the threshold value it is estimated that the foreign material is a conductive material and it is determined that the color filter is defective.

When it is determined that the color filter is defective it is preferable to notify the fact to the operator by displaying various warning messages on the screen of a display device that is provided together with the control unit turning on a warning lamp or giving the alarm.

X ray fluorescence spectrometers that are on the market may be used as the X ray source the X ray detector and the analysis unit .

Here a method of measuring the detailed coordinates of the foreign material using the camera unit will be described. As described above the color filter includes a color filter film formed on a glass plate. Therefore for example red R green G and blue B coloring films are arranged so as to correspond to each pixel. is a diagram schematically illustrating an example of an image of the color filter captured by the camera unit .

In the image shown in when the camera unit is moved a distance that is the integer multiple of a pattern pitch the same pattern appears on the color filter film. Therefore a comparison point having the coordinates X Y and a comparison point having the coordinates X Y that are separated from a point of interest having the coordinates X Y by the integer multiple of the pattern pitch are set on the image and image processing represented by the following Equation 1 is performed on the brightness D X Y of each point of interest to obtain a difference D X Y between the brightnesses. 2 where 00 . Equation 1 

The above mentioned method of measuring the detailed coordinates of the foreign material can be applied to a case in which the camera unit can capture the image of a relatively large area. Next a method of measuring the detailed coordinates of the foreign material when it is difficult to capture the image of a large area with the camera unit will be described with reference to .

When data of the defect coordinates to be tested is input to the control unit the camera unit is moved to a position that is separated from a defect position on a color filter by a comparison pitch which is separately input and captures a reference image . Then the camera unit is moved to the defect position to capture an image of the position that is regarded to have a defect . The difference between the two images is calculated to obtain an image and a foreign material defect is extracted. It is possible to determine the detailed coordinates of the foreign material from the current position of the camera unit and the position of the foreign material defect in the processed image .

In this method when there is a deviation from the pattern of the color filter during the acquisition of the image and the reference image the foreign material defect may not be extracted well. Next a method of measuring the detailed coordinates of the foreign material when there is a deviation between the image including a foreign material defect and the reference image will be described with reference to .

When data of the defect coordinates to be tested is input to the control unit the camera unit is moved to a position that is separated from a defect position on a color filter by a comparison pitch which is separately input and captures a reference image . Then the camera unit is moved to the defect position to capture an image of the position that is regarded to have a defect .

Pattern matching between the two images is performed using the pattern of the color filter to calculate the amount of positional deviation between the two images. Then the reference image is shifted by the calculated amount of positional deviation and the difference between the two images is calculated to obtain an image . Then the defect is extracted from the image. It is possible to determine the detailed coordinates of the foreign material from the current position of the camera unit and the position of the foreign material defect in the processed image .

In that way the detailed coordinates of the foreign material adhered to a substrate for a liquid crystal display device are determined and it is possible to accurately radiate X rays to the foreign material. Therefore it is possible to perform accurate and effective fluorescent X ray analysis. As a result it is possible to effectively and rapidly test a substrate during a substrate manufacturing process.

In the test device having the above mentioned structure shown in a color filter was used as a test target and the X ray source was driven under the conditions of a tube voltage of 100 kV and a tube current of 100 mA to perform a test for a measurement time of 10 seconds. An output of 15 000 cps was obtained from an Fe particle with a diameter of about 10 m with energy of Fe K rays cps is a unit indicating the number of X ray photons measured per second . Under the same conditions an output of 200 cps was obtained from a resin sphere with a diameter of about 50 m. Under the same conditions an output of 180 cps was obtained from a position on the color filter where there was no defect. Then when a threshold value was set to 1 000 cps the determining unit could detect and determine the Fe particle with a diameter of about 10 m.

