---

title: Method and system for fast, generic, online and offline, multi-source text analysis and visualization
abstract: Methods and systems for text data analysis and visualization enable a user to specify a set of text data sources and visualize the content of the text data sources in an overview of salient features in the form of a network of words. A user may focus on one or more words to provide a visualization of connections specific to the focused word(s). The visualization may include clustering of relevant concepts within the network of words. Upon selection of a word, the context thereof, e.g., links to articles where the word appears, may be provided to the user. Analyzing may include textual statistical correlation models for assigning weights to words and links between words. Displaying the network of words may include a force-based network layout algorithm. Extracting clusters for display may include identifying “communities of words” as if the network of words was a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103682&OS=08103682&RS=08103682
owner: Icosystem Corporation
number: 08103682
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100824
---
The present application incorporates by reference the commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 023 693 filed on Jan. 31 2008 entitled Method and System for Fast Generic Online and Offline Multi Source Text Analysis and Visualization and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 887 710 filed on Feb. 1 2007 entitled Method and System for Fast Generic Online and Offline Multi Source Text Analysis and Visualization. 

This disclosure relates to a method and system that enables the user of a computational or communications device such as a computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant or any similar device to visualize and analyze structured or unstructured text data from one or multiple sources.

Users of computational devices such as computers smart phones personal digital assistants and the like may have access to very large quantities of data. A small fraction of the data may reside on the device itself while the vast majority of the data may be stored in databases and or may be accessible via means of communications such as the Internet or other wired or wireless networks capable of transmitting data.

Search engines have made the discovery and retrieval of useful and relevant data a little bit easier but often cannot help users make sense of the data. Search results may include results that do not relate to the user s search making the search experience sometimes overwhelming. There is therefore a need for a method and system to analyze data quickly and display its essence in a succinct but holistic manner that highlights important themes topics or concepts in the data and how they might relate. Such a method may aid the user in making sense of data.

Text mining and analysis is a rich field of study M. W. Berry Survey of Text Mining Clustering Classification and Retrieval Springer 2003 . Proposed solutions to make sense of text data may rely on combinations of statistical and rule based methods. Many methods may be computation intensive particularly methods that attempt to include semantics taxonomies or ontologies into the analysis as well as methods that require the performance of global computations such as the calculation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors for extremely large matrices. As a result such methods may be used mostly by specialists.

Another characteristic of methods that rely on semantics is their context and language dependence. There is therefore a need for a method and system that is generic enough that it can work with virtually any context and with a broad range of languages without any modification of the method.

Several methods use a network approach but may fail in their genericity speed and ease of use Carley Kathleen. 1997 Network Text analysis The Network Position of concepts. 79 100. Mahway N.J. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Corman S R Kuhn T McPhee R D Dooley K J. Studying complex discursive systems Centering resonance analysis of communication. Human Communication Research 2002 28 157 206 .

This disclosure relates to a method and system that enables the user of a computational or communications device such as a computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant or any similar device to 1 specify one or several sources of structured or unstructured text data for example a file in a format that supports text such as Word PDF Postscript HTML TXT RTF XML email or any other URL RSS feeds URLs returned by a search query submitted to a search engine 2 analyze the ensemble of text formed by the specified text data source or sources and 3 display a network of words that represents certain salient features of the specified text data source or sources.

The method and system work fast and are generic. That is they work with any text in any written language that has words or whose text can be tokenized into word like elements and they work in any context i.e. for a medical report or for the news of the day.

While the performance of the method and system may vary as a function of the specific set of text data sources the method and system produce a useful view of the key concepts in the text and how they relate to one another. They can be used by anyone wishing to analyze a document for example a Senate report a book or a set of articles a website news email or other textual material to obtain a fast global overview of the data.

The method and system work in such a way that the data sources specified may reside on the computational device itself or may be accessible via communications protocols or a combination of both thereby seamlessly integrating the user s offline and online universes. By right clicking on any word in the displayed word network or taking an equivalent defined action the user has access to all occurrences of the selected word in the data sources viewed in the various contexts in which it has appeared. By left clicking on any word or taking an equivalent defined action the user can hide delete or focus on the word focusing on the word means that a new network of words is displayed that centers on the selected word with all words in the new word network connecting to the selected word. The user can also decide to view clusters in the word network each cluster corresponding to a theme or topic in the data.

The disclosed method and system for text data analysis and visualization enables a user of a computational device to specify a set of text data sources in various formats residing on the device itself or accessible online and visualize the content of the text data sources in a single overview of salient features in the form of a network of words. The method for text analysis uses a statistical correlation model for text that assigns weights to words and to links between words. The system for displaying a representation of the text data uses a force based network layout algorithm. The method for extracting clusters of relevant concepts for display consists of identifying communities of words as if the network of words were a social network. Each cluster so identified usually represents a specific topic or sub topic or a set of tightly connected concepts in the text data.

One object of the invention is to enable the user to analyze one or more documents in any format that supports text data. The user specifies the location s of the document s and the systems parses and analyzes the document as described for the news reader example and displays the salient features as a network of words using the same method.

Another object of the invention is to enable the user to perform a search and visualize the contents of the search results pages as a network of words. The user enters a search query whereupon the system hands the query over to one or several search engines such as Alexa Google Yahoo MSN Technorati or others via open Application Programming Interfaces collects the results opens the URLs or documents returned by the search engine s parses the text data analyzes it and displays the salient features a network of words using the same method.

To provide an overall understanding certain illustrative embodiments will now be described however it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide systems and methods for other suitable applications and that other additions and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

Unless otherwise specified the illustrated embodiments can be understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail of certain embodiments and therefore unless otherwise specified features components modules and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined separated interchanged and or rearranged without departing from the disclosed systems or methods. Additionally the shapes and sizes of components are also exemplary and unless otherwise specified can be altered without affecting the disclosed systems or methods.

Making sense of large amounts of data across a wide range of offline or online sources has become a daily routine for large numbers of users who have a lot of data on their computer or other computational or communications device and also have access to an ever increasing online world. A significant fraction of this data is textual. The disclosure herein makes it easy for anyone with a computer or other computational or communications device and access to a database or network connection to specify one or more sources of textual data for example a file in a format that supports text such as Word PDF Postscript HTML TXT RTF XML email or any other URL RSS feeds URLs returned by a search query submitted to a search engine and see a visual representation of the text data as a network of words that extracts salient features from the text data. The user can then view different clusters of words that represent salient topics in the text data. The user may also focus on one word for example by mouse clicking on it or by a similar or analogous operation to see which other words or clusters the selected word is connected to.

Users also my access textual data and information from a range of other computational devices such as PDAs smartphones or other devices yet to appear in the marketplace. The method and system described here will work with all such devices and this disclosure covers such applications.

For illustrative purposes and without limitation the methods and systems are described herein in relation to RSS feeds as text data sources.

To display the text data from the sources the user has chosen in the illustrative example the RSS feeds as a network of words the system executes the following tasks the method 

 1 It goes through each source of text data here each RSS feed parses each source into words and builds a statistical model of the words and relationships between words. To do so it first cleans up the parsing by removing non word characters and also all words that belong to a pre specified list of stop words. It then applies a bi tri gram extraction algorithm Christopher D. Manning Hinrich Sch tze MIT Press 1999 to identify multi word expressions that is two or three words that always appear together. It then applies a stemming algorithm Julie Beth Lovins 1968 . Development of a stemming algorithm. Mechanical Translation and Computational Linguistics 11 22 31 Jaap Kamps Christof Monz Maarten de Rijke and B rkur Sigurbj rnsson 2004 . Language dependent and Language independent Approaches to Cross Lingual Text Retrieval. In C. Peters J. Gonzalo M. Braschler and M. Kluck eds. . Springer Verlag pp. 152 165 Eija Airio 2006 . Word normalization and decompounding in mono and bilingual IR. Information Retrieval 9 249 271 to reduce variations in the occurrences of a word into a single word e.g. car and cars will be reduced to a single word car. It then counts the number of times each word appears in the sources. It then counts how many times any two words appear together in the same sentence where a sentence is defined by the smallest ensemble of words between two points. Let Nbe the number of times word k appears in the sources and N Nthe number of times words j and k appear together in a sentence. Conditional frequencies are defined by F j k N Nand F k j N N.

The window in which two words j and k appear together does not have to be a sentence. It can be a paragraph or a window of fixed size W within a sentence or within a paragraph a fast but semantic less approach. We have found however that using the sentence as the window maintains some semantic information in the statistics without the great variability of paragraph length and its associated speed issues.

 2 Once the Nand Nvalues have been computed for all words and pairs of words the weights of words and links between words are computed. The weight W of word k is defined by N N . The weight of the link between words j and k W is defined by 0.5 F j k F k j . Other formulas can be used to compute W. For example if H F j k F k j W SQRT H W Log 1 H W H Log 1 H W H H max i H 2 or others. A normalizing scheme is used after all W s and W s have been computed so all values of W s and W s are recomputed to be within ranges that can handled by the graph or word network drawing algorithm.

 3 The word network is displayed as follows. The number of words N to be displayed can be pre specified or specified by the user. The N most frequent words are selected for display and shown on a two dimensional display with links between them. The location of a word k in the display depends on Nand all Nfor words j connected to k. The display algorithm assumes that the node representing word k has a mass of Wand is connected by springs to other nodes representing other words j with spring recall forces equal to W. Similar methods are known to those familiar with the field P. Eades A Heuristic for Graph Drawing Congressus Numerantium 42 149 160 1984 P. Eades and R. Tamassia Algorithms for Drawing Graphs An Annotated Bibliography Technical Report CS 09 89 Department of Computer Science Brown University 1989 Branke J. Dynamic graph drawing. In Kaufmann M Wagner D Eds . Drawing Graphs Methods and Models Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 2025. Springer Berlin 2001 228 246 .

Once the word network has been displayed the user can tweak it by deleting words the display is then recalculated moving words with the mouse or other device or method and or the user can focus on a word. When the user focuses on a word the most frequent N 1 words that are connected to the focal word are displayed together with their links to the focal word and among themselves . If there are fewer than N 1 words connected to the focal word only those words connected to the focal word are displayed. If k is the focal word word k may be anchored at a fixed location and the network is displayed with the same individual word weights Wand with the same connection weights Wfor all j s other than k but with a new set of connection weights W F k j . These newly defined weights make words j that tend to appear with word k which means that W is close to 1 lie close to k in the network layout. Another option is to set all W s to 0 except for W that is with only links to the focal word shown.

The user can also select a second focal word and a third a fourth etc. and the most frequent N 2 words connected to the first or the second focal word or both are displayed with links to the focal words and among themselves. This method enables a user to compare the word networks of two words. For example the user can compare the word networks of Toyota and Nissan in text data coming from car oriented blogs thereby getting an idea of the relative perception of Toyota and Nissan in the selected blogs. For the focal words are Genentech and Amgen. The same method used for displaying a single focal is replicated for two or more focal words.

The user can also add a word of his her choosing by writing a word directly into the display. If the user chooses to add a new word the new word is treated as if it were a focal word and a word network is created as if the new word were a focal word the most frequent N 1 words that are connected to the new word are displayed together with their links to the new word and among themselves. If there are fewer than N 1 words connected to the new word only those words connected to the new word are displayed.

The user can also decide to examine if news topics emerge from the text data. Strongly connected clusters of words need to be identified. To do so the system employs an algorithm inspired by the detection of communities in social networks M. E. J. Newman Detecting community structure in networks European Journal of Physics B 38 2004 321 330 Fast algorithm for detecting community structure in networks Physical Review E 69 2004 . each illustrate a highlighted cluster in a word network.

The user can also mouse click on or otherwise choose a word and see the contexts in which the word appears. For the example of RSS feeds from news sites the user sees a window that summarizes the locations here URLs where the word appears with the title of the corresponding news item . The user can then click on or otherwise choose one or more of the URLs displayed which opens a browser with the URL address . As may be understood by those in the art the contexts displayed and the links to the context sources may depend on the text data sources specified.

The methods and systems described herein are not limited to a particular hardware or software configuration and may find applicability in many computing or processing environments. For example the algorithms described herein can be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of hardware and software. The methods and systems can be implemented in one or more computer programs where a computer program can be understood to include one or more processor executable instructions. The computer program s can execute on one or more programmable processors and can be stored on one or more storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements one or more input devices and or one or more output devices. The processor thus can access one or more input devices to obtain input data and can access one or more output devices to communicate output data. The input and or output devices can include one or more of the following Random Access Memory RAM Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID floppy drive CD DVD magnetic disk internal hard drive external hard drive memory stick or other storage device capable of being accessed by a processor as provided herein where such aforementioned examples are not exhaustive and are for illustration and not limitation.

The computer program s is preferably implemented using one or more high level procedural or object oriented programming languages to communicate with a computer system however the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. The language can be compiled or interpreted.

As provided herein the processor s can thus be embedded in one or more devices that can be operated independently or together in a networked environment where the network can include for example a Local Area Network LAN wide area network WAN and or can include an intranet and or the internet and or another network. The network s can be wired or wireless or a combination thereof and can use one or more communications protocols to facilitate communications between the different processors. The processors can be configured for distributed processing and can utilize in some embodiments a client server model as needed. Accordingly the methods and systems can utilize multiple processors and or processor devices and the processor instructions can be divided amongst such single or multiple processor devices.

The device s or computer systems that integrate with the processor s can include for example a personal computer s workstation e.g. Sun HP personal digital assistant PDA handheld device such as cellular telephone laptop handheld or another device capable of being integrated with a processor s that can operate as provided herein. Accordingly the devices provided herein are not exhaustive and are provided for illustration and not limitation.

References to a processor or the processor can be understood to include one or more processors that can communicate in a stand alone and or a distributed environment s and can thus can be configured to communicate via wired or wireless communications with other processors where such one or more processor can be configured to operate on one or more processor controlled devices that can be similar or different devices. Furthermore references to memory unless otherwise specified can include one or more processor readable and accessible memory elements and or components that can be internal to the processor controlled device external to the processor controlled device and can be accessed via a wired or wireless network using a variety of communications protocols and unless otherwise specified can be arranged to include a combination of external and internal memory devices where such memory can be contiguous and or partitioned based on the application. Accordingly references to a database can be understood to include one or more memory associations where such references can include commercially available database products e.g. SQL Informix Oracle and also proprietary databases and may also include other structures for associating memory such as links queues graphs trees with such structures provided for illustration and not limitation.

References to a network unless provided otherwise can include one or more intranets and or the internet.

Although the methods and systems have been described relative to specific embodiments thereof they are not so limited. Obviously many modifications and variations may become apparent in light of the above teachings and many additional changes in the details materials and arrangement of parts herein described and illustrated may be made by those skilled in the art.

