---

title: Microfluidic systems and methods
abstract: Microfluidic systems and methods. A microfluidic device for in vitro fertilization comprises a substrate and a plurality of microchannels disposed in the substrate, including an inlet of at least two of the plurality of microchannels arranged on the substrate to align with a fluid-handling device. Another microfluidic system for assaying a plurality of cells comprises a substrate and a plurality of microfluidic channels comprising a source channel, a sink channel, and a cell chamber. An insert for a microfluidic system comprises a substrate configured to be inserted into a dish and a plurality of microscale wells disposed in the substrate. A microfluidic channel comprises a substrate and at least one microchannel having an open inlet, an open outlet, a channel, and an opening in the substrate disposed over a portion of the channel. A device for providing an amount of fluid for a fluidic system comprises a main reservoir, an aspiration well, tubing coupling the reservoirs, and a seal closing the main reservoir. Air tubing having a hydrophobic end extends into the at least one aspiration well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09157550&OS=09157550&RS=09157550
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09157550
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100105
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 142 605 filed Jan. 5 2009 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Grant No. 1 600207 538026 538393 issued by U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is microfluidics. Example applications of the invention include methods and systems for microfluidic handling of cells.

Microfluidic systems and methods are becoming increasingly significant for providing benefits of much larger systems or facilities such as but not limited to laboratories or biological environments with increased efficiency as well as reduced size cost and or complexity. Such microfluidic systems and methods have various benefits and advantages for a multitude of applications including but not limited to the area of biology.

As one nonlimiting example technology assisted reproduction techniques in which embryos are handled independently from their mammalian biological source are growing in importance and frequency of use. For example such techniques have great direct benefit to persons unable to have babies through unassisted sexual reproduction. The agricultural industries also increasingly rely upon such assisted reproduction techniques. Embryo manipulation is used in livestock reproduction to control such things as the faster genetic evolution of cattle and permitting the genetic characteristics of a single exceptional cow or bull to be passed on to far greater numbers of offspring than would be possible through unassisted sexual reproduction.

In vitro fertilization IVF is an appropriate microfluidic application since microfluidic technology can provide accurate control of a micro environment surrounding the cells. An example of microfluidic technology for IVF is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 765 the 765 patent which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Livestock embryo manipulation is becoming more routine due to the development of gene manipulation cloning and IVF techniques. The overall goal of embryo manipulation in livestock is to increase production efficiency especially with regard to reproduction milk production or production of specific milk components lean tissue growth with reduced fat content and or decreased susceptibility to specific diseases. Embryo transfer is also used to introduce or rescue valuable germplasm and propagate rare breeding animals such as endangered exotic species.

Expense and relatively low success rates place significant burdens on the use of these assisted reproduction techniques for humans as well as livestock. In human reproduction such expense and failure adds emotional as well as economic burdens. In addition safeguards against failures often result in multiple births as well as additional stored embryos. Expense is the primary concern in livestock reproduction. Failure rates in reproduction techniques as well as testing and other embryo handling techniques are attributable primarily to the significant handling and manipulation of embryos in executing these techniques.

Microfluidic systems can be applied to other types of biological systems. Another example application for a microfluidic system is to create an in vivo like culture microenvironment for embryos. Yet another example application is a microchannel system including passive pumping for cell embryo oocyte culture and chemical analysis. Still another example microfluidic system is used for cell testing.

According to embodiments of the present invention a microfluidic device for in vitro fertilization is provided. The microfluidic device comprises a substrate and a plurality of microchannels disposed in the substrate wherein each of the microchannels includes an inlet at an end for receiving a cell and an outlet at an opposing end. Each of the microchannels further comprises a restriction disposed near the outlet. An inlet of at least two of the plurality of microchannels is arranged on the substrate to align with a fluid handling device.

According to another embodiment of the invention a microfluidic system is provided for assaying a plurality of cells. The microfluidic system comprises a substrate and a plurality of microfluidic channels arranged in the substrate. Each of the plurality of microfluidic channels comprises a source channel at an end of the microfluidic channel and a sink channel at an opposing end the source channel having an inlet and an outlet. A cell chamber is disposed within the microfluidic channel between the source channel and the sink channel and a cell inlet is provided in fluid communication with the cell chamber. A fluidic resistance is disposed between the cell chamber and one of the sink channel and the source channel.

According to another embodiment of the invention an insert for a microfluidic system is provided. The insert comprises a substrate and a plurality of microscale wells disposed in the substrate. Each of the plurality of microscale wells has a predetermined size and the plurality of microscale wells are uniformly distributed in the substrate. Each of the plurality of microscale wells is fabricated in the substrate using soft lithography. The substrate is configured to be inserted into a dish.

According to yet another embodiment of the present invention a microfluidic channel is provided. The microfluidic channel comprises a substrate and at least one microchannel disposed in the substrate. Each of the at least one microchannel comprises an open inlet at one end an open outlet at an opposing end a channel within the substrate and disposed between the inlet and the outlet and an opening in the substrate disposed over a portion of the channel to expose an open portion of the channel.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a device is provided for providing an amount of fluid for a fluidic system. The device comprises a first reservoir providing a main reservoir at least one second reservoir separate from the first reservoir and providing an aspiration well a siphon tubing coupling the first reservoir and the at least one second reservoir and a seal closing the first reservoir. An air tubing extends through a portion of the seal and the air tubing is coupled to the at least one second reservoir and has an end extending into the at least one second reservoir. The end of the air tubing is hydrophobic.

Example embodiments are described herein. However it will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein can be used alone or in any combination to provide any of various microfluidic systems and methods.

The present inventors have discovered that IVF systems conventionally provide a low yield due to inefficiencies in the system damage to cells contained within the system difficulty in accessing cells and other reasons and thus require an undesirable cost. Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things microfluidic systems and methods that improve yield over conventional systems and methods. Such systems can be used alone or in any combination and or number to provide various benefits and advantages. For example by providing a plurality of arrayed devices throughput can be significantly increased for applications such as but not limited to IVF and chemotaxis. Additionally by sizing wells of a particular microfluidic system according to certain species and fabricating an insert to include such sized wells with or without fluidic channels connecting the wells a flexible platform is provided for accommodating a wide variety of animal species. According to other embodiments of the present invention an open closed open closed open OCOCO system is provided for efficient cell culture and convenient sample access. In other embodiments of the present invention an automatic top off system is provided using a surface tension valve which requires neither moving parts nor electronic control devices. One or more of these various embodiments may be combined to provide microfluidic systems such as but not limited to systems for cell based microfluidic manipulation e.g. a high throughput IVF device cell based assay devices e.g. stem cell based assay devices or other systems or devices. Microfluidic as used herein is intended to generally refer to a scale on the order of but not limited to 20 1000 microns along at least one dimension for channels.

Many of the devices and systems according to embodiments of the present invention can be provided by microfabrication techniques. In particular nonlimiting examples microchannels inlet and outlet ports constrictions fluid resistance openings and other components can be microfabricated in a substrate of a suitable material which can then provide alone or in combination with other products or apparatus such as but not limited to surfaces of dishes or other bases or substrates features of embodiments of the present invention. As one nonlimiting example walls of microchannels can be formed in a microfabricated substrate and the substrate can be placed on or over and coupled with e.g. adhered mounted resting on etc. a flat surface of a base or substrate of glass silicon plastic and other materials to complete the microchannel. In other embodiments multiple layers formed by microfabricated substrates can be used to provide substrates having particular features. In still other embodiments injection molding may be used to provide substrates having one or more features. Such microfabricated substrates themselves are considered to be part of the present invention. These substrates can be customized for particular uses packaged individually or as sets or kits and or combined in any way needed. Such techniques can be used alone or in combination to provide particular embodiments of the present invention.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

For many species under optimal conditions conventional methods of IVF may be sufficient particularly when plenty of semen is available e.g. human cattle . However for fertilization with limited or special e.g. selective sorted semen e.g. a pig or where there is a low fertilization amount an insufficient amount of semen may be available resulting in a lower and or unacceptable yield under conventional IVF methods. It is desired to provide a low handling high throughput IVF device and method to provide a higher yield while requiring significantly less sperm than conventional methods.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide a high throughput automated IVF device which can require much less sperm than conventional methods and devices. Example embodiments allow sorting of sperm directly into a smaller volume for IVF. In this way smaller amounts or numbers of sperm as a nonlimiting example 20 100 are needed.

In an example embodiment at least one microchannel is provided in which a biologically compatible fluid is provided. Examples include but are not limited to SOF PALP modified Whitten s medium CRI Ham s F 10 TCM 199 DMEM M2 M16 G1 G2 and others. The at least one microchannel is used to incubate cells such as but not limited to oocytes and embryos human and animal or any other type of adherent or non adherent cells. In a nonlimiting example one or more of the microchannels is aligned to match manual or automated systems such as but not limited to a handheld pipettor a single head or multi head pipettor of a fluid handling robot and or a dispenser of a flow cytometer.

A constriction is provided within the generally spiral in this example microchannel . As shown in the constricted area e.g. funnel shaped or other shapes or configurations such as those disclosed in the 765 patent is provided for the oocyte so that the oocyte will become concentrated similar to a fallopian tube in a mammal. The constriction should allow fluid flow but prevent the oocyte embryo from passing the constriction e.g. 10 50 microns .

In an example IVF method using the example device oocytes are introduced into the at least one microchannel using a method such as but not limited to introducing an oocyte in the microchannel via the inlet from a multi head pipettor of a fluid handling robot or via manual means. The oocyte becomes parked at or near the constriction . After a particular amount of incubation time determined based on any suitable measure e.g. depending on species sorted or non sorted sperms are introduced into the at least one microchannel inlet using automated or manual methods such as a multi head flow cytometer or by other ways e.g. hand pipetting . The sperm swims or is moved by flow to the oocyte and the oocyte is fertilized . The example microchannel shape shown in and flow control allow the sperm to be directed to the oocyte target. By contrast in some conventional IVF methods an oocyte is provided in a droplet on a Petri dish and the sperm then are intended to randomly go to the target.

Once fertilized the embryos are moved to the inlet such as by generating a reverse flow e.g. as disclosed in the 765 patent or by other methods e.g. negative pressure such as by using a pipette and collected at the inlet for example by manual methods or by using automated methods such as the fluid handling robot. The embryos may be removed by interfacing with the inlet e.g. by using the fluid handling robot and are ready for further steps as necessary.

Systems and methods of the present invention provide significant advantages over known IVF systems and methods. By expanding the yield versus conventional IVF methods by the number of arranged microchannels or a portion thereof as a nonlimiting example 96 times or beyond systems and methods of the present invention address the low yield of conventional IVF methods.

Further because at least one microchannel is used a microenvironment can be controlled precisely without inducing shear stress on cells. Higher yield is provided by among other things the high throughput manner provided by the multiple microchannels in example embodiments.

Chemotaxis is a phenomena of cell motility which is related to cell viability cancer development and wound healing. For example many disease states involve the migration of certain cells such as but not limited to immune cells bone marrow cells stem cells etc. to a particular area e.g. an area of infection injury cancer etc. If the cells move in response to a certain agent this is a sign of viability. Chemotaxis devices thus provide an assay whereby the devices assess the viability of certain cells to move toward a particular area. In an example method injury is induced and stem cells are injected. It is determined whether the cells target the injury or defect by migrating to the area of injury or defect. In another example method cancer cells are known to send out signals to certain cells.

Many chemotaxis devices have been developed that are not suitable to perform high throughput chemotaxis studies. For example conventional chemotaxis methods using such devices are laborious and time consuming at least because the time waiting for cell migration can be lengthy. Such methods also may not be very accurate. Further large amounts of expensive growth factors are required.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things the use of fluidic resistance to prevent convection and provide a flow barrier. In this way example embodiments can create cell chambers that can create a defined concentration gradient. Interruption of the concentration gradient is minimized due to the fluidic resistance and thus cell to cell factors are conserved inside the cell chamber.

The cell chamber is disposed between the source channel and the sink channel and has at least one cell inlet leading thereto. The fluidic resistance e.g. protrusions formed within a substrate array of narrow channels in the substrate etc. in this example embodiment separates the cell chamber fluidically from the sink channel but permits passage of molecules by diffusion. The sink channel provides a zero boundary condition to form the concentration gradient within the cell chamber . Particular fluidic resistance that is provided can vary depending on the design and experimental conditions. Preferably the fluidic resistance should be as high as possible to minimize fluid flow through the cell chamber to prevent interrupting the gradient while transport of molecules is allowed by diffusion.

It will be appreciated that the configurations shown and described herein are merely examples and that other configurations are possible. Example materials for the device fabrication methods etc. can be similar to those provided for the IVF microchannel described herein and or those provided in the 765 patent herein and techniques for forming the particular features will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

A plurality of chemotaxis migration devices may be arranged in a one or two dimensional array to provide a high throughput chemotaxis system an example of which is shown in . The cell inlet source channel inlet and outlet and sink channel inlet and outlet may be aligned with suitable devices such as but not limited to those described herein for the IVF device for providing cells a chemoattractant and a blank medium respectively. The number of cell chambers can be expanded to have as nonlimiting examples 96 192 or more individual chambers to perform the chemotaxis in a high throughput way and thus significantly expanding the yield.

In an example chemotaxis method as shown in cells are loaded in the cell chamber through the cell inlet a chemoattractant is introduced into the source channel and blank medium is introduced in the sink channel . In a more particular example the source channel the cell chamber and the sink channel are loaded with medium making the device fluidically constant at a suitable speed cells are loaded into the cell chamber with more medium and then the source channel is filled with a suitable substance. A gradient develops an example of which is shown in and the introduced cells migrate down toward or away from the pyramid or sink depending on the cell s relation to the source material. This process in example embodiments may be observed. Due to the fluidic resistance there is no flow or convection in the cell chamber . Accordingly the concentration gradient is established mainly by diffusion. As shown in the example chemotaxis device in the gradient can be but need not be developed in cylindrical coordinates. shows a concentration gradient of fluoroscein isothiocyanate FITC in a blank medium.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide significant improvements and advantages over conventional chemotaxis systems and methods. Because example systems and methods use diffusion cell to cell factors are conserved and the concentration gradient is conveniently controlled. The high throughput manner of example embodiments of the present invention solves the low yield problem of current chemotaxis methods significantly expanding the yield e.g. 96 times or beyond.

Due to the high throughput allowed by providing a plurality of independent chambers in example embodiments it is possible to consider a large number of factors e.g. growth factors for genetic analysis. It is also possible to quantify the migration of cells under certain predetermined factors which can be provided by configuring the individual chambers. Such independent chambers also provide the potential for personalized medicine where optimal results may be harvested based on results of assaying.

Additionally the small size of example chambers allows less reagent to be used. The size of such chambers may also allow the physics of particular chambers to be optimized. Individual configurations may be used within an array and the present invention is not to be limited to arrays of like configurations or any specific size number or configuration of individual chambers.

Another example embryo technology is nuclear transfer. This technology typically requires a significant amount of time labor equipment etc. to perform as opposed to other techniques. A microenvironment may be used to help fertilization as well as hold cells together so that they can develop junctions associations etc. This is especially helpful for culturing zona pellucida free oocytes and embryos where without the zona pellucida clusters would not otherwise be obtained.

A technique used to hold cells together involves the use of wells such as in a plastic culture dish. An example of this technique is the so called well of the well WOW system such as that disclosed in Vajta et al. New Method for culture of zona included or zona free embryos the Well of the Well system Mol Reprod Dev. 2000 March 55 3 256 64. To provide this example WOW system hot steel rods are manually pressed on a bottom of a plastic culture dish under a stereo microscope to create one or more small e.g. microscale wells for culturing the oocytes embryos. However the effectiveness of this technique may depend largely on the configuration of the microwells and more particularly the ability to manufacture such wells to exacting standards efficiently and consistently. Forming the wells can be tedious and the resulting wells will likely not be uniform in size diameter depth and distance because they are formed manually. Thus it is difficult to achieve controlled results.

To facilitate an in vivo like culture microenvironment for embryos embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a ready to use culture system that can be made using soft lithography injection molding or other methods. In an example embodiment soft lithography or injection molding is used to make an insert that includes wells that are appropriate for particular applications e.g. microenvironments for particular species . The insert can be placed in or on a base such as but not limited to placement inside a dish for performing WOW methods in the base. Using soft lithography techniques these wells can be tailored to the size of the embryo that is desired to be cultured. Cells in this way can make associations and then liberate themselves. Also after suitable sizes are determined injection molding can be alternatively or additionally used to produce the wells.

Both channel less and channeled systems are provided according to embodiments of the present invention. An example channel less system includes a substrate including one or more wells formed in the substrate. The wells preferably are sized based on a characteristic size of the particular species of oocyte embryo or other cells being cultured. This example channel less system provides a flexible platform that can accommodate a wide variety of animal species.

An example channeled system includes a substrate having formed therein a plurality of microchannels networked between wells such as but not limited to similar wells as those provided by channel less embodiments. In this way channeled embodiments of the present invention allow cell cell communication to be maintained between oocytes embryos during medium change. This latter type of system is useful for at least the reason that embryo growth is improved when the embryos are able to communicate with one another which is true across generally all species. The example channeled system allows the cells to communicate with one another and further allows embryos to be cultured both individually and in a group. As a nonlimiting example cells may be disposed side by side but at a distance that is tailored to optimize embryo culture. Variations include but are not limited to varying the distance between the wells spacing height dimensions etc. of the channel to allow or optimize fluid flow varying the media etc. Example embodiments of the present invention are particularly useful for culturing zona pellucida free oocytes and embryos as the well holds the cells together much as the zona pellicuida would with intact oocytes or embryos. Materials and fabrication methods for the example insert can be similar to those for the IVF and chemotaxis devices.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide among other things uniformly distributed wells with specific predefined dimensions in size depth and distance. Note that though the distribution of wells having a particular predetermined configuration is preferably uniform it is also possible to provide a plurality of different wells each having specific predefined dimensions. Even these wells however can be particularly defined using fabrication techniques. Thus culture experiments based on systems and methods of the present invention can generate controlled data. In addition embodiments of the present invention provide microchannel networks between wells to maintain cell cell communication during medium change which is not possible with conventional methods. Because devices according to example embodiments can be provided as inserts it is very convenient to prepare an embryo culture system. For example preparing such a system may be performed merely by for example attaching the example insert on the bottom of a cell culture dish.

Example embodiments of the present invention are also scalable since the insert can be placed in any cell culture dish e.g. 4 wells 24 wells a single big dish etc. and as many may be provided as needed. Example embodiments can also be incorporated with a robot or automatic fluid handling system to facilitate high throughput and automatic culture. Devices and systems of the present invention can be expanded into other forms of devices made of different materials such as but not limited to polystyrene wells with or without channels fixed on a culture dish.

Because the substrate can be configured e.g. fabricated to fit any sized dish example embodiments can be sized to fit conventional or other dishes while providing consistently sized microscale wells for the environment within the dish. By simply placing the insert within the cell culture dish and attaching the insert to a surface of the dish e.g. a bottom surface in any suitable manner in a nonlimiting example adhering the insert microwells can be provided more conveniently and consistently than with previous methods. Size of the well diameter etc. size dimensions of the channels wider narrower distance between channels or wells etc. can vary according to for example species etc. The wells can be used with known well of the well WOW methods for providing an in vivo like culture microenvironment for embryos. Further advantages are provided by channeled embodiments as the oocytes embryos can communicate with one another for instance via embryotrophic factors as a nonlimiting example held together by the wells and channels in the insert .

While FIGS. and A B show a channeled embodiment shows a portion of an example channel less embodiment. Within the microwells successful development of bovine blastocysts was provided using example embryo oocyte culturing methods and devices according to the present invention. In this example development the blastocysts moved out of the wells as they grew in size showing that methods using the WOW system can be used with example inserts according to the present invention.

Open Closed Open Closed Open OCOCO Microchannel System for Efficient Cell Culture and Convenient Sample Access

Microchannel systems provide a good micro environment for cell embryo oocyte culture and chemical analysis. However it is inconvenient to load samples into or access samples from the microchannels. It has been previously suggested e.g. Wijngaart et al. Behavior and design considerations for continuous flow closed open closed liquid microchannels Lab on a Chip 2005 5 6 p. 682 686 to use a so called closed open closed COC system for convenient sample access. An example of a COC system and measurement setup is shown in . The COC system includes a glass substrate including a closed inlet port and a closed outlet port formed therein. An open microchannel is formed using a PDMS substrate that is disposed over the glass substrate . The PDMS substrate includes an opening surrounding both the inlet port and outlet port to define the microchannel.

For controlling fluid flow the inlet port is coupled to an input liquid and the outlet port is coupled to an output liquid with the input liquid being disposed at a point higher than the microchannel and the outlet liquid being disposed at a point lower than the microchannel. A suitable housing can be provided to arrange the inlet liquid microchannel and outlet liquid.

Controlling a microchannel system such as the COC microchannel system in can be difficult. For example certain systems do not allow cells to spread evenly within a microchannel e.g. at a bottom of a microchannel due to interaction between the particular cells used and the specific physical configuration of the microchannel between the inlet and the outlet. Thus the results of such microchannels for particular cells during cell culturing for instance will vary according to the particular physical architecture of the microchannels and vice versa. This means among other things that certain microchannels may not be optimal or even suitable for some cells and vice versa. This deficiency is sometimes addressed in the art via external methods but these methods may not always be successful.

Also controlling a COC system such as the system shown in is not easy because the system typically relies on external pumping schemes such as hydrostatic pressure and syringe pumping which need to be controlled carefully so that the liquid inside the channel does not overflow through the open microchannel. Further the connecting tubes spend extra medium or reagent.

Another type of microfluidic system uses a so called open closed open OCO system for facilitating passive pumping. shows an example OCO system . An open reservoir port having a large drop is coupled to a pumping port having a smaller drop via a closed microchannel . The larger drop of the reservoir port and the smaller drop of the pumping port are required for fluid flow. As shown in the enlarged portion of the pumping port a drop of volume V forms a spherical cap of radius R on a port of radius r. The cap will rise above the surface of the device a distance h. If the drop volume is less than that for a hemisphere of radius r then the drop radius R will be larger than h e.g. see Walker et al. A passive pumping method for microfluidic devices Lab On a Chip. 2002 2 3 p. 131 134 .

However while the OCO passive pumping system is a good way of pumping it is difficult to access samples inside the microchannel . Samples can only be collected from the outlet of the microchannel by introducing new medium or reagent at the inlet port. Generally this process requires dilution and thus lowers the sample concentration of interest. Further loading of cells and particles is inconvenient due to the nature of passive pumping. Loading of hydrogels for 3D culture or other research purposes for example is inconvenient due to the viscosity of hydrogels. High throughput OCO methods such as that disclosed by Meyvantsson et al. High Throughput Microfluidics In Annual Fall Meeting of Biomedical Engineering Society 2006 Chicago Ill. USA have been provided by expanding the OCO passive pumping. However the above mentioned problems with passive pumping have not been addressed. Thus certain types of cells remain difficult or impossible to grow using some conventional systems.

The present inventors have discovered that it is desirable to open up a microchannel so that cells media etc. can be accessed within the microchannel. This allows among other things cells to be more evenly loaded in channels. For example cell cultures may grow in the port area. By opening this up the medium can be kept in the channel. The channel may not need to be closed. For these and other reasons it can be useful to provide an improved way to get cells media etc. into and out of a microchannel.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a microchannel system having an inlet and outlet opening and an additional opening disposed therebetween referred to herein as an open closed open closed open OCOCO system. Such a system can accommodate a micro environment using passive pumping to change a medium or a reagent. In this way example systems do not require any connecting channels or tubing and thus extra medium or reagent is not wasted. Also embodiments of the present invention provide a convenient way to collect samples from the open window without any dilution effect. The complexity of control in the COC system is avoided. The open window provides a convenient way to load cells particles and hydrogels. Example systems can easily be expanded to a high throughput system.

An example OCOCO system is shown in . Within a substrate an inlet shown with a small drop and an outlet shown with a large drop are provided at opposing ends connected by at least one microchannel . Disposed between the inlet and the outlet and along the microchannel is an open window provided by an opening in the substrate that allows access for example to a cell within the channel. An extra space may be provided within the microchannel below the opening and between other portions of the microchannel for providing for instance a well such as but not limited to a well for a three dimensional hydrogel culture. Fabrication techniques for the example OCOCO system will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having reference to the disclosure herein. The well provided in the space can be used in nonlimiting example methods for growing cells on e.g. hydrogel for flowing over then retrieval. The OCOCO system can be fabricated using methods and materials such as those described herein with respect to other embodiments disclosed herein. In a nonlimiting example embodiment the OCOCO system can be made by bonding two layers of PDMS to provide one layer for the microchannels ports openings and another for the well . The two layers can then be bonded e.g. above the well space and below the formed microchannel to provide the components. Examples of items to access the opening include but are not limited to pipettes and needles and the opening may be used as nonlimiting examples for harvesting cells for DNA analysis harvest cells for biochemical assays histology etc.

In operation liquid flows from the inlet to the outlet by passive pumping. For example the inlet may be loaded with fluid providing a bigger droplet at the outlet and thus lower pressure due to the resulting lower surface to volume ratio. Adding more fluid passively pumps fluid when introduced first by capillary action then due to the lower pressure on the other side. In other words the high surface to volume ratio on the inlet relative to the lower surface to volume ratio on the larger drop at the outlet causes the introduced fluid to move from high to low through the microchannel inducing flow. The liquid level of the open window is maintained constantly. The open window allows the cells to be evenly loaded in the channel . Without the open window by contrast a substantial number of the cells would stay at the port area which would bias the cell culture. By loading the cells directly through the open window they can be distributed evenly. The example OCOCO channel can be used similarly to other microchannels but further provides a way to access the microchannel.

In a nonlimiting example application during osteogenic differentiation cells overlap to make nodules which require more space. Embodiments of the present invention having an open window will provide a more suitable environment for osteogenic differentiation while maintaining passive pumping. Further for a three dimensional 3D culture using hydrogels it is even more difficult to load cells and gels inside a microchannel without an open window due to the viscosity of hydrogels. The open window can also provide better air diffusion when compared to the microchannels without the open window. shows an example OCOCO system formed in a substrate. Operation of the example system shown in allowed the passive pumping to work well while maintaining the level of the liquid in the open window.

As with other embodiments of the present invention an example OCOCO system can be expanded to provide a high throughput system. As shown in a photomask can be used in a method to make an array of micro OCOCO channels in a substrate each having an inlet outlet and open window disposed therebetween. A fluid handling robot can be incorporated in example embodiments to aspirate and dispense medium or reagent. The nonlimiting example array provided in part by the photomask in is a two dimensional array of 96 6 16 micro OCOCO channels. Other example arrays number or more or fewer micro OCOCO channels on a substrate. A nonlimiting example substrate is a micro titer plate such as a standard micro titer plate.

Though cell culturing can be a time consuming labor intensive and or error prone process efficiencies can be introduced with high throughput systems. Examples of such high throughput systems are shown and described herein with several applications. Certain high throughput systems though are limited by current automated pipetting systems. For example media changes can be particularly acute requiring extensive setup and trained operators. Even so operator error typically is not eliminated. Due to these and other concerns the time savings provided by current automated pipetting systems may be only moderate.

In a microfluidic system to aspirate and dispense a predetermined amount of a sample liquid it is important to prevent the outside of a pipette tip from wetting by the sample liquid. If this is not done the sample will contaminate or wet the outside of the tip which will cause a dispensing error. This problem is especially concerning for automatic fluid handling where a dispensing error can bias the result or cause malfunction of a high throughput screening HTS system.

If the tip only touches the surface of the liquid the problem can be minimized. However touching the surface of the liquid is difficult to achieve especially for automatic fluid handling robots. While a very expensive pipettor can sense the level of a fluid such a sensing mechanism is hardly applicable for a multi channel pipettor.

Thus additional embodiments of the present invention provide among other things an automatic top off system using a surface tension based valve which in an example embodiment requires neither any moving parts nor electronic control devices. Further an example top off system is inexpensive and convenient to miniaturize for microfluidic and or high throughput systems.

A liquid handling system is provided according to embodiments of the present invention to automatically fill wells e.g. culture wells to desired levels without operator handling. In an example system fluids are stored in a separate reservoir and tubing is specifically allocated to each well. More particularly a siphon system passes media from a fluid reservoir to individual wells based on surface tension of the receiving well. Liquid is passively added while a seal such as a valve cap remains open. After the seal is closed and initial flow is induced the liquid media is maintained in an aspiration well at a constant level without manual manipulation. Nonlimiting example applications include high throughput cell culture and high throughput in vitro drug screening.

Being provided with the hydrophobic end leading to Reservoir B the example air tubing serves as an automatic liquid level valve. For example usually the air tubing can be easily closed due to the capillary motion of the liquid when it touches the surface of the liquid and once this happens the siphon will not work. However the hydrophobic end of the air tubing prevents the capillary motion by surface tension and thus provides an automatic top off function.

Thus in an example operation initially the liquid from Reservoir A goes into Reservoir B through the siphon tubing when slight negative pressure is applied into Reservoir B such as but not limited to using vacuum tubing. Liquid is passively added as the surface tension drops so long as the valve cap remains open. Once the liquid level of Reservoir B reaches the hydrophobic end of the air tubing liquid filling stops because the hydrostatic pressure of Reservoir A and the surface tension of the hydrophobic end of the air tubing are balanced. The liquid media is thus maintained in Reservoir B at a constant level without manual manipulation.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

