---

title: Digital content personalization method and system
abstract: A system and method for predicting what content a user wants to view based on such user's previous behavior and actions, comprising: receiving a cookie for every content page template in a web site; receiving a request for service of a content page; sending the content requested to a requester; for each content page sent, retrieving the cookie from the user; assigning a unique identifier (ID) to each new requester and storing the ID in the cookie; recording each ID, IP address, referrer, and time of request from the server; and storing the data recorded in a buffer for a period of time before storing it more permanently in a client-specific database. The system can be monetized by receiving fees from end users for presenting the content preferences or by receiving fees form content providers that include advertising related to the content preferences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019777&OS=08019777&RS=08019777
owner: Nexify, Inc.
number: 08019777
owner_city: Hollywood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100607
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 377 761 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 814 116 B2 filed on Mar. 16 2006.

The invention disclosed broadly relates to the field of information processing systems and more particularly relates to the field of promoting discovery of digital content through a personalization and recommendation service using information about a person and his her viewing preferences to select display and or organize the content of a digital medium in a way that reflects such individual s tastes and preferences.

Numerous challenges and opportunities arise as new media transitions from a monolithic one size fits all model to one of delivering real time information to millions of users worldwide. One of the challenges for the new media is intelligent personalization which is increasingly seen as a necessity for successful media companies in the modern age. In the context of abundant supply and demand for digital content assets such as news stories and other content where existing search techniques are limited in velocity accuracy and maintain a heavy reliance on user input and the formulation of queries there is a need for an advanced system that overcomes the deficits in the prior art.

Briefly according to an embodiment of the invention we present a hybrid method performed by a personal content recommendation engine to generate personalized media and news recommendations which includes steps or acts of recording and storing information about each piece of content viewed including a unique identifier time period location IP address or latitude longitude device type referrer and the like. by each uniquely identified user processing all content through data mining other semantic filters and content enrichment processes to extract named entities and concepts including a relevance score for such entities and concepts dynamically generating granular profiles of each user s interests based on the content viewed over different time periods and other actions taken using the metadata related to each piece of content viewed matching other available content within a set timeframe to each user based on closeness of the match to a user s interest profile excluding content already consumed and tracking which recommendations lead to additional content consumption to refine future recommendations.

The content recommendation engine is specifically tuned to the unique nature of media that changes frequently with new information and content becoming available and users interests shifting over time. It evaluates interests over different time periods and across different domains and media types. It incorporates feedback based ion which recommendations in the past were successful success may be measured depending on whether the recommendations were viewed bookmarked shared sent to other users by email rated or ranked among other success markers and which recommendations were not successful cases where none of the success actions were taken to improve future recommendations. The personal content recommendation engine takes into account the success of different recommendation methods such as collaborative filtering or contextual relevance in order to learn from and adjust to the method that is most successful with a specific individual user.

The system also allows transparency and control to both users and publishers. Individual users can view their profiles and control or correct elements of the profile as well as opt out of tracking and recommendations. Publishers can see a dashboard of their entire user base or of segments of it to understand overall interests of users. Publishers are also able to control elements and variables of the recommendation algorithm related to balancing long term and short term interests time period for content value of certain topics or entities input of editorial recommendations and even the financial value of promoting a selected type of content over another so that traffic can be directed to areas of higher financial value.

While the invention as claimed can be modified into alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the present invention.

A content personalization service called Newstogram run by DailyMe tracks and understands a user s interests at a granular level and helps owners of web sites recommend content target advertising and promote commercial transactions which are based on each individual user s interests.

Referring to we describe a system for the efficient discovery and delivery of personalized content. The digital content can be published news content audio content songs books on tape audio presentations video content movies news reels video presentations advertising photos and mixed media messages. In fact any type of content that can be published or distributed through digital means can be advantageously used in all embodiments of the present invention. The digital discovery and delivery system incorporates a proprietary content personalization engine that combines data mining semantic content analysis editorial and commercial rules and an understanding and application of behavioral analysis. This content personalization engine provides an efficient process for end users to discover relevant content such as news stories and advertising banners and enables publishers to increase the value they provide to their subscribers and or readers. The content analysis processes include semantic analysis of content software for entity extraction knowledge maps and other methods of determining topical matter.

The personalized prediction engine system encompasses a hybrid approach including three key systems and related methods 1 A user profile generator that tracks the digital content consumed by each individual and constructs a detailed profile of each user s interests based on the content consumed 2 A content analysis and data mining engine that analyzes each content item to understand the topics concepts and entities related to each content item and 3 A content recommendation engine that matches each user s interests from the profile built by the profile generator with an available pool of content to find the closest matches to a user s interests factoring in relevance recentness popularity and the interest of other similar users. For example a preferred content is news stories. The personalized prediction engine system is preferably implemented with an information processing device e.g. one or more microprocessors .

The user profile generator relies on the following methods recording of each item of content consumed and any interactions with the content e.g. sharing commenting rating and the like using page based JavaScript code to report the action in real time via and application programming interface API relying on unique IDs assigned and stored in cookies on a computer or via other methods such as login based username or device ID usually in the case of mobile devices retrieving of all metadata and relevance scores related to the content from the content metadata database and compiling the values for each entity based on the frequency and relevance of it occurring in the content consumed. User profiles are constructed based on entities ontologies and relevance scores. Each user has parameterized raw and normalized profiles. In one possible embodiment of this invention user profiles are constructed to represent interest score vectors.

User profiles may be maintained in a profile database exclusive to activity within one publisher s content or across the content of all sites willing to participate in a sharing of data.

The content analysis and data mining engine relies on the following methods extraction of entities e.g. people companies organizations industry terms medical conditions and events topics e.g. politics sports news and concepts e.g. bailout plans financial reform energy efficiency via various techniques of semantic processing analysis of URL structure and other indicators of site taxonomy processing of metadata available from the publisher categorization of content into a proprietary taxonomy based on a combination of the previous methods. The content metadata is stored in a content metadata database . As in the case of the User Profile Generator described above media items are converted to vectors representing the relevance of each entity item concept or topic to such item.

The content recommendation engine selects the content most likely to be of interest to a user using a matching scoring function that may be done based on a weighting of the following factors relevance to the user based on similarity to the user s interests using either a user profile based solely on one publisher s content or based on a profile across all publishers sharing profiles timeliness recency of the content based on either its initial publication or subsequent updates social tags user actions prior domain knowledge popularity of the content among other users either in aggregate or other users with similar interests. The matching functions that can be used include cosine similarity Jaccard similarity coefficients and other various custom functions. The role that each variable plays in making a recommendation can be controlled for each set of recommendations based on the nature of the content and publisher preferences In addition a publisher may add to the weighting other factors such as relative economic value giving higher weight to content in categories with higher advertising rates for instance or editorial ranking.

The content recommendation engine can recommend content from either a single publisher s content database from selected collections of content or from the entire network of content processed via the content analysis and data mining engine.

An end user as contemplated within the spirit and scope of the invention is an entity according to one of these categories 1 a content consumer desiring to view personalized digital content and 2 an enterprise content provider desiring to enhance its customer s experience. In the case of the second category for the content provider the personalized content delivery system can support the distribution of both physical media such as print media and digital media including web sites applications intended for wireless or mobile devices newsletters or other means of digitally transforming information and 3 an enterprise advertising provider desiring to provide personalized advertising to users. In addition the content personalization engine supports free advertising supported and pay business models.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth by way of exemplary embodiments in order to provide a more thorough description of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention. The preferred embodiments of the inventions are described herein in the Detailed Description Figures and Claims. Unless specifically noted it is intended that the words and phrases in the specification and claims be given the ordinary and accustomed meaning as understood by those of skill in the applicable art. If any other meaning is intended the specification will specifically state that a special meaning is being applied to a word or phrase.

The content personalization system can be monetized by sales to content consumers who pay fees to receive personalized content and by those content providers whose customers would benefit from personalized content and advertising. Referring now to the drawings and to in particular we show a high level block diagram of an information processing system server configured as an enterprise business according to an embodiment of the invention. The enterprise computer includes one or more processors a communication interface and a database of one or more content templates each having a program e.g. JavaScript that assigns to each customer the content consumer or instructs the customer to generate a unique identifier to track and understand the customer s individual interests. The identifier is an internal alpha numeric string generated by diverse algorithms methods that is unique for that user on the client media outlet.

The client user is a consumer of content that it requests. The user includes a central processor unit CPU and a storage device . The server responds to service requests by transmitting content with the cookies used to track the user s browsing habits. Typically the server is paid by the client for the personalization of content.

Referring now to there is shown another embodiment of the invention. The system comprises a client computer that operates in the same manner as client . The client is connected to a server via the internet . A load balancer distributes requests for service among a plurality of servers . These servers are coupled to a database of profiles . This component could be within the server or coupled to it. The computer server also includes a random access memory for storing instructions and data.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart illustrating a method of data acquisition according to an embodiment of the invention. The method starts at step wherein a decision is made whether a cookie exists. If it does the cookie is read in step . If cookie does not exist then in step a user ID is generated. Next in step a cookie is created and in step the system gets a content item e.g. a news story . Finally the user ID URL content and a date time are stored per customer.

Referring to a flow chart of a method of entity extraction is illustrated. First a decision is made whether content such as a story has been processed. If it has then in step the content is crawled. Then in step the system gets the content entities. Then in step the system saves the content and entities. If the content has been processed in step the process ends.

Referring to there is shown a method of recommendation of popular content. In step the system gets the most visited content. In step the system gets a popular content list. Then in step the content is presented to the user.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart illustrating a method of recommendation of content by category. In step the system gets content entities. Then in step the system gets popular content. Next in step the system creates a content list. Finally in step the system provides the most popular content.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart illustrating a method of recommendation of content by user. First in step the system gets user read content. In step the system gets entities for each item of content. Then in step for each entity the system gets popular content. Then in step the system excludes viewed content. Then in step the system creates a content list. Finally in step the system provides the user with content.

The system is able to connect both to a content management system and to an advertising server in order to personalize including the selection of content or the reorganization of content the site content for each user and or target advertising based on each user s interests. It is also possible to deploy a recommendation module to present personally relevant content to users with almost no technical effort on the user s part.

Collecting data on which stories each user reads. A site according to the invention collects data on usage via a script such as JavaScript running on the client computer that needs to be placed on content pages on the website the client is perusing. The script allows the computer to place a cookie on each browser that visits the website assigning each browser a unique ID. Then when that browser views an article on the client site the content personalization engine collects the content ID or URL the IP address and time.

To support a content personalization system two steps are significant collecting data on which content each user views and analyzing the stories that the user reads.

In those instances where the personalized content service is used by a site owner each site owner will be issued a username and password to access its client data via a URL. Site administrators have access to view personalized content service data and may configure certain rules that determine how personalized recommendations are displayed.

In those instances where personalized content service is used by a site owner the service s website offers a wealth of information and various ways to view the data and analytics including What s hot entities and topics getting the most interest in the past few days as compared with 30 day average client s site vs. aggregate for all news sites tracked Geography what users inside client s DNA digital news affinity are viewing vs. those from outside the client s DNA Time of day what morning users read vs. evening users Days of week what users are reading on weekdays vs. weekends New users vs. returning users Frequent users vs. infrequent users what visitors who come at least 10 times a month want heavy users vs. light users what visitors who read at least 50 stories a month like .

In those instances where the personalized content service is used by site owners the service allows downloading data from the personalization service site to incorporate into other applications and offers an emailed dashboard. In other instances where the personalized content service is used directly by users on certain sites users have the ability to download their user data.

In addition the content personalization system considers the relevance of an entity or topic to content so that a passing reference to someone in content will have less weight than if the person is central to the content. The personalized content specialization system uses a weighted average of the relevancy of entities and topics in stories which results in a more meaningful score because it downplays references that are orthogonal to content but that frequently appear in those stories. For example a reader with an interest in the January 2010 Haiti earthquake will likely read many news articles which carry references to aid organizations but that same reader would not necessarily be interested in news stories about the American Red Cross.

Data for all personalized content service powered sites is aggregated to allow the personalization service to create scores of the entire news audience and relevant segments no segment will be specific enough to allow someone to view data that is essentially from a single site .

Sites participating in the personalization service s data cooperative also will be able to use aggregate data for an individual cookie to make personalized news recommendations based on a user s news interests across news sites. This would allow the client to recommend relevant stories to a user who arrives at the client site for the first time such as from a search engine.

It is to be understood that the example given in the figures is just an illustration of the general working of the present invention and that only features relevant for the understanding of it are shown.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium media may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device.

Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF and the like.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The computer program instructions may be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as main memory and secondary memory removable storage drive and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive. These computer program products are means for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable recording medium allows the computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium.

According to another embodiment a method of applying statistical probabilistic and predictive methods to data contained in a user s profile in order to determine the likely interest of a user in content not yet viewed. The method includes a step of using a plurality of calculations to determine a pattern in a subject matter of articles previously viewed.

The calculations include determining similarities in substance between articles previously viewed and a set of articles not yet viewed by comparing a plurality of data points where the data points include a content s author source time of creation time of publication length whereas in the case of text assets the length may be measured in terms of character word or paragraph count.

The method can also include a step of determining similarities in substance between articles previously viewed and a set of articles not yet viewed by comparing a plurality of data points where the data points include a content s author source time of creation time of publication length whereas in the case of text assets the length may be measured in terms of character word or paragraph count. The method can further include an ability of a publisher to access a dashboard where statistical matches between user profiles and available content may be viewed at an aggregate level to provide a more comprehensive perspective of the audience content preferences.

Therefore while there has been described what is presently considered to be the preferred embodiment it will understood by those skilled in the art that other modifications can be made within the spirit of the invention. The above description of an embodiment is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting in scope. The embodiment as described was chosen in order to explain the principles of the invention show its practical application and enable those with ordinary skill in the art to understand how to make and use the invention. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but rather should be interpreted within the full meaning and scope of the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth by way of exemplary embodiments in order to provide a more thorough description of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention. The preferred embodiments of the inventions are described herein in the Detailed Description Figures and Claims. Unless specifically noted it is intended that the words and phrases in the specification and claims be given the ordinary and accustomed meaning as understood by those of skill in the applicable art. If any other meaning is intended the specification will specifically state that a special meaning is being applied to a word or phrase.

Therefore while there has been described what is presently considered to be the preferred embodiment it will understood by those skilled in the art that other modifications can be made within the spirit of the invention. The above description of an embodiment is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting in scope. The embodiment as described was chosen in order to explain the principles of the invention show its practical application and enable those with ordinary skill in the art to understand how to make and use the invention. It should be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described above but rather should be interpreted within the full meaning and scope of the appended claims.

